08 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Our results Total business return 15.5% Ungeared total property return 12.8% Increase in adjusted diluted NAV per share 12.2% CHIEF ExECUTIVES STATEMENT Robert Noel reports on our financial and operating performance over the last 12 months.
Our highlights 26.6m of development lettings 23.6m of investment lettings Sales of 920.4m Acquisitions of 209.9m including XLeisure Development and refurbishment expenditure of 366.6m Further developments committed with total development costs of 551.0m STRATEGIC REPORT GOVeRnance financial statements additiOnal infORmatiOn chief executives statement Land Securities Annual Report 2014 09 We aim to provide attractive and sustainable returns The most complex aspects of our construction standards for our buildings and setting ourselves a for our shareholders through the property cycle by programme in the Capital will shortly be behind us higher level of ambition for our contribution towards anticipating markets and understanding customers and we will move into the derisking phase of the local employment, education and charity.
This is about ensuring we let our speculative and communities needs.
We create value by taking sustainable business is a vital part of our corporate developments well and have relatively long lease a proactive approach to how and when we buy, strategy and encourages our employees to make a lengths across the office portfolio as the current develop, manage and sell assets.
Three key factors difference individually.
Sustainability is created by London office cycle matures.
First, a recognition that we everyday acts as well as big decisions.
Second, that our Navigating a changing retail market New management structure customers needs always evolve.
These mean income The year brought brighter prospects for the In December 2013, we announced that Richard Akers from rent does not last forever, so we must regularly economy.
But with no general rise in real wages intended to step down from the Board and leave recycle capital and upgrade our portfolio.
Third, that emerging until the final quarter, this did not translate the company.
he goes with our thanks for an communities give us our licence to trade so we must into increased consumer spending everywhere.
outstanding contribution over 19 years and our ensure they are pleased that it is Land Securities Over the last few years we have talked about how very best wishes for the future.
the retail market is changing and we have reshaped Following Richards departure, we have We have continued to pursue the clear strategy our portfolio as a result.
The portfolio today is much reorganised our leadership team.
We have simplified first articulated in 2010.
Our acquisitions and more concentrated on dominance, experience the structure with clearer accountabilities and significant push into speculative development over and convenience.
Colette OShea and Scott the last four years have been funded by sales rather This year we have focused on nurturing a pipeline Parsons, two outstanding candidates from within the than increased net debt.
This has enabled us to of dominant shopping centre, and convenience led business, have been appointed as managing directors reduce financial gearing, and strengthen the edgeoftown, developments.
The Westgate Centre, of the London and Retail portfolios respectively.
business, as we move through the cycle.
Our plan Oxford is a great example of where we intend to Each has reshaped the executive committee for their is to have low operational and financial gearing as create a destination in a city which tops the list of business unit with all but one of the senior posts we approach the top of the cycle, so that risk is retailer requirements.
We have also grown our leisure filled by internal promotions.
This speaks volumes reduced and we have good capacity to buy as market portfolio further, taking our ownership of XLeisure for the talent within the Company.
conditions turn and opportunities present themselves.
And to fund our activities we have exited Our actions have delivered a strong financial Outlook the most at risk locations.
Buying and selling activity performance this year.
We generated good growth The lead up to a general election is bound to bring an will continue because consumer behaviour evolves.
in revenue profit, up 9.9% to 319.6m, and our element of uncertainty to the business community.
A sustainable business development programme helped push our adjusted however, extraordinary events aside, we do not Like any good business, success for us is all about diluted net asset value per share up 12.2% to 1,013p.
expect to see a correction of the balance between understanding what our customers want and making Our total business return the increase in adjusted supply and demand in the London office market sure we provide it at the right time, in the right way, net asset value plus dividend paid per share over the next two years.
There is not enough at the right price.
efficient, technically resilient space for businesses 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, shows our approach and this bodes well for our committed speculative Meeting strong demand in London in action.
In 2010, we recognised that the City developments.
Four years ago we anticipated the onset of supply market needed better space and that much of the We will remain very busy in London as we press constrained conditions in the London offices market.
planned new development would be delayed due ahead with construction and derisk the portfolio.
That is exactly what to lack of development We are confident about the prospects for our we have seen.
So we set out, with committed schemes.
We also recognise that the risk anything, demand has our partner Canary Wharf profile of future speculative development is changing been stronger than we Group, to build a highly as competition for sites has increased, construction signalled in our Annual efficient, technically costs are rising, and development activity is set Report last year.
resilient building in Like any good business, to pick up.
As a result, any new development We have developed response.
The building is commitments in the near term are likely to speculatively into these success for us is all about now 87% let, well ahead require prelettings.
market conditions and of our expectations.
In retail, a return to economic growth and real understanding what our are currently in delivery In everything we do we growth in wages is welcome news for retailers, mode.
We completed strive to shape the future customers want and but we still do not expect this to translate into 62 Buckingham Gate, for good.
By investing in rental growth across the entire retail market.
making sure we provide it SW1 in May 2013.
20 the built environment, we We will continue to sell assets which are less well Fenchurch Street, EC3 improve the public realm at the right time, in the right equipped for the future and focus on assets that offer while enhancing the is all but completed.
This includes our way, at the right price.
economic and social In Victoria, The Zig Zag plans for new city centre schemes such as Oxford environment by employing Building, Kings Gate and and edgeoftown schemes such as our proposals for people to build.
Our Nova are all rising out of Worcester which provide the right space for retailers.
properties then help to generate and sustain the ground fast.
During the year we also started our economic activity for the communities in which developments at 1 & 2 New Ludgate, EC4: 1 New We enter a new year with confidence.
Our shopping centres are major Street Square, EC4: and 20 Eastbourne Terrace, W2.
employers and our offices, through the many people having prepared the New Ludgate project for a who work in them, bring demand for local services.
21month construction programme, we said we In turn, the local environment is more attractive would push the button when we saw good emerging to our retail and office customers who sustain our interest from occupiers.
in August without a prelet and we have already We are adapting our business in anticipation of prelet 49% of the space and have a further 12% robert noel the changing demands of society.
We are imposing in solicitors hands.
Our London developments Chief Executive tougher environmental targets and reporting produced a valuation surplus of 269.0m or 22.5%.
