10 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS STRATEGIC REVIEW THE RIGHT STRATEGY In many ways the story of the last twelve months is thinking about future improvements to buildings.
We have stuck to our strategy of Having attracted these customers many stay with us supporting Londons new and growing companies by as they grow, moving into dedicated space often in the providing them with high-quality properties that are same building.
By the end of this year we will have eleven in the right locations and that offer the services and of these co-working centres across our estate, housed facilities that suit their needs.
We have ensured that we in space we have that is generally less easy to rent out refurbish and redevelop our portfolio to create a modern a win win for us.
working environment in order to retain and attract customers and to drive rents.
By doing that consistently Our refurbishment and redevelopment pipeline remains and well we have grown our business, yet again strong with great results achieved throughout the year.
reporting an increase in our core rent roll of 8.5% For example, our Pill Box property in east London together with a 27% uplift to the capital value of underwent a full refurbishment and internal redesign, our portfolio taking its value to over 1bn.
A very creating modern and vibrant space as well as adding successful year.
a caf, gym and bike store things we know our customers value.
Further, a major redevelopment of But ours is a property story with a difference.
ScreenWorks in Islington will see us open a brand new office building, creating an exciting destination for Of course, at the core are our buildings.
Spread across our customer base in the heart of a thriving business the capital, many of them well-known landmarks, we community.
make sure that they provide our customers with the quality, flexible space they need and we do this in On top of all of this we are actively looking to acquire ways that minimise environmental impact.
However, the more of the right kind of properties and grow our management of our buildings doesnt end there because business.
Opportunities where we can leverage and we also put in place the technology and communication apply our marketing and asset management skills to channels on which our customers day-to-day business drive rents and values.
Within the last six months and future growth depends.
It is this twin approach that we have successfully purchased three properties in sets us apart.
Not only that, but we are able to manage strategic locations across the capital and we continue and evolve our properties in this way because we deal to search out more.
directly with our customers there are no intermediaries so we can tailor our space, management and services London is changing fast and I believe this pattern will using this direct dialogue and knowledge.
Infrastructure investment such as Crossrail very important to us.
and the Northern Line extension will further enhance this change.
New areas are emerging and establishing Over the last few years, we have grown our relationships across London, breaking down the traditional core and relevance with customers quickly and one thing that territories.
Occupiers are generally more fleet of foot, has taught us is that their needs are constantly evolving.
demand more flexibility and less commitment and We know that because we have a constant dialogue with will locate their businesses where they want to be not them: our on-site teams talk to them daily: we regularly where they think they should be.
Modern communication survey them on their needs and opinions: and of course channels have revolutionised the way businesses operate we have regular online communication with them.
These with a significant amount now conducted online.
fast-growing businesses are thoughtful and nimble and Workspace embraces this change and I believe we always alive to the possibilities of new technology and are well positioned to benefit from this development  processes.
We intend to be across the Capital.
there supporting them as they evolve, ensuring our buildings are providing exactly the right environment Combining our knowledge of London and of every for their success.
customer, with the right buildings in the right locations, and managing all of these elements directly with our Nowhere is that more visible than in our Club Workspace own people and the latest technology is the Workspace environments.
Customers contact us directly to join blueprint for future growth.
and take advantage of our co-working spaces and the feedback our local teams receive as we begin each new JAMIE HOPKINS relationship helps to tailor our services and inform our CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Related information: Our strategy p. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility p. 22
