Chief Executives Review Delivering Growth across all our Customer Segments & Product Categories Our consistent performance in terms of revenue growth has been delivered again this year with like-for-like sales up 6.3% and total group turnover up 6.4% to 834.9m.
Our strategic initiatives of Simply Be and Jacamo store roll-out and our expansion into the USA have added to our momentum.
However, in absolute terms the biggest drivers of growth were our young female and male consumer segments which delivered 23m and 16m of revenue growth respectively.
It is pleasing to report that all consumer bought for the Autumn Winter season.
segments delivered growth in the year.
Sales for the full year were diluted by a flat performance from some large In the mature segment classic fashion categories in mid-life ladies fashion brand Julipa was the star performer casuals, knitwear and outerwear.
House That said, we grew share in our key of Bath was also strong at over 25% categories of mens and ladies plus ahead year on year.
It is encouraging size clothing.
to see a return to growth in JD Williams, however, at just 1% ahead In the mature female segment we saw we see this as an opportunity.
good growth in our main in-house ladieswear brand Joanna Hope 7%.
In the younger female segment Simply In younger female clothing, Fast Be performed strongly, up 9% year on Fashion ranges sold extremely well year and in the male segment Jacamo 46%.
The brand Joe Browns was was a stand-out performer, up 21%.
Revenue % of % Revenue % of % m Total Change m Total Change Mature Female 364 44 3 Ladieswear 372 45 3 Young Female 277 33 9 Footwear 92 11 10 Male 140 17 13 Menswear 108 13 5 Specialist 54 6 2 Home & Gift 263 31 12 Total 835 100 6 Total 835 100 6 All product categories also grew in the In traditional menswear, which year with the best performance coming accounts for over 50% of sales, from Home & Gift and Footwear.
performance was diluted with the Clothing sales were impacted in the category only up 4% on the year.
second half by the very mild weather Younger ranges were stronger, up 8%.
which affected the sales of product Top 5 Over 25% Biggest in UK retail increase choice for customer satisfaction in demand using for size 20 next day delivery in UK fashion Home and gift sales have been Attracting and Delighting During the year we have made bolstered by improvements in the More Customers numerous improvements to our overall housing market with Homewares service proposition for customers.
Our active customer file has increased and Furniture being strong growth For example: we have virtually halved to seven million, which is up 3.7% categories, as was gifting, where our web page load speeds, making us year on year and reflects sustained demand was up 27% year on year.
industry leading in this regard: we have investment in recruitment with The House of Bath brand within simplified and improved the check- 24% of demand coming from new Home also performed well in the year, out process: we have introduced a customers.
Our investment is also up 25%.
As a result of credit policy Click and Collect service from 3,000 reflected in customer retention noting changes, Home & Gift sales though parcel shops across the country: we that the most effective recruitment strong, were 9 million lower as a have provided mobile tablet devices channel is online marketing, including consequence.
to store colleagues in our new stores paid search.
allowing them to better serve our inIn ladies footwear younger styles We actively track the long term value store customers: we have significantly were strongest, up 20% year on year.
of all our customers and take this improved our next day service which We were particularly successful in back to the type of recruitment activity now offers an 8pm cut-off and wide calf fitting boots.
Mens footwear that first enticed them to order this accounts for over 28% of demand, grew by 16%, with most growth allows us to optimise spend for long at the same time standard delivery coming from Jacamo customers.
service has improved to 3.2 days on average.
We will continue to drive Gross Margin and Credit Continued development of a tailored, service improvements and track our segmental marketing strategy is The overall gross margin rate for the progress on customer satisfaction.
clearly enabling growth through more year was down 30bps year on year.
targeted and relevant communications, This is a marked improvement on Developing our Multichannel and this will develop further as we the first half where margin was down Capabilities combine analytics with online tools 80bps.
Product margin was down to deliver real time personalisation.
Online sales now account for 58% of 20bps, impacted by the sales mix in overall demand.
This is up from 55% favour of Home & Gift and diluted in Improving the shopping experience last year.
The shift in our marketing the second half by a higher rate of for our customers is a key focus for spend reflects the growing appeal markdown and promotional activity the business as it correlates so closely and influence of digital marketing to support sales and sell-through with commercial success.
In the techniques with customers across following a weather related poor multi-channel world this requires us all our consumer segments.
In the start to the autumn winter season.
to measure ourselves and track our year we have reduced spend on performance across many dimensions The ratio of bad debt to sales was paper from 33% to 25% of our including the web experience, in-store 8.1% for the year, which was in line overall marketing budget and diverted service, size availability, the speed with last year.
However, this reduced investment into online recruitment and and reliability of our delivery service from 8.8% in the first half to 7.5% in retention activities.
We have increased and overall value for money.
This reflected our our emails by 70% year on year and Our latest aggregate score from the product related credit policy changes the open rate of promotional emails UK Institute of Customer Service gives impacting high risk, low margin home has increased by 8%.
us a satisfaction index of 84.1 which & gift categories such as high value puts us in the top five of UK multiThese are targeted emails based electricals and electronics.
We expect channel retailers and well above the on customer product preferences future sales and margin benefits to overall index of 77.9. and lifestyles.
These highly targeted flow from these changes.
campaigns are driven from analytics N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 Chief Executives Review 100% 40% of 80% 60% web traffic 40% coming from 20% mobile devices 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 Marketing Season % Mobile Sessions % Tablet Sessions % Desktop Sessions and are all device optimised which is driving the Ahead of our systems upgrade which is discussed improved customer response.
further below, we continue to invest in improving our web proposition.
In 2014 we plan to further improve copy The migration of our business to the online channel is and images, develop our product recommendation and being fuelled by the growth in traffic from mobile devices.
personalisation tools plus make the customer checkout This now accounts for 40% of web traffic with over half of journey even simpler.
During the year we optimised our websites for tablet devices and smartphones.
As a result Implementing our Strategy of improvements our conversion levels by device have The fourth quarter has seen us begin to implement increased year on year.
elements of our strategy which underpin our ambition to be: Device % of traffic converting to demand The leading global retailer famous for making shopping for 2013 2014 fashion easy and enjoyable regardless of size.
Desktop 7.1 7.9 Tablet 4.5 5.0 Smartphone 3.5 3.6 To be the leading gobal retailer famous for making shopping for fashion easy We have also improved search and navigation across and enjoyable, regardless of size sites and increased our online selling capabilities through product sequencing flexibility, improved affinity selling and extended personalised recommendation capabilities.
We have also enhanced the online user experience with more frequent and relevant content changes and richer Multi-Channel International Industry leading experience expansion capabilities images, making our sites more interesting and inspiring and efficiencies for customers to browse.
Expert Engaging Easy Enjoyable Data rich, Targeted, Multi-Channel Inspirational fashion fit relevant one-stop-shop presentation, specialist brands with credit personalised option advice Pay by Debit Credit Card In February we introduced the option for customers to pay at point of order by debit or credit card, an important step in broadening our customer appeal and making our proposition more contemporary.
It is too soon to conclude on the impact of this however early evidence reinforces expectations that this will introduce incremental customers to the business.
14 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 % Sessions Famous Five in Home & Gift Our marketing focus is also shifting to digital first and we are also planning above the line campaigns to drive brand Since last October we have been implementing our 40% of awareness.
Customer retention will be underpinned by Famous Five strategy in our Home & Gift categories introducing a credit offer which also has an in-built loyalty focusing our marketing efforts on categories which are scheme offering unique savings.
This will be delivered via differentiated and most relevant to our target customers: a third party, and will launch later in the summer.
The new web traffic Homewares, Bedding, Home Decor, Outdoor Living and team to drive this key strategic initiative is now largely in Gifts.
These actions have driven additional sales of the place and operational.
coming from Famous Five categories.
Over the course of the next financial year we are confident that sales will be further Due to unfavourable economics associated with returns mobile devices fuelled by these target categories.
We are seeing levels in Germany in the second half we took the decision particularly strong momentum in homewares and to close the German website.
German customers can still family gifts.
The sales impact was small, around 1.2m for the year, as we have not been marketing Re-launch of JD Williams in Germany for over 12 months.
As a result, Germany broke even for the year.
Delivering growth from our core brand of JD Williams, and its sister titles in the mature customer segment, is key to Simply Be & Jacamo Stores as Multi-channel Hubs achieving our future growth ambitions.
This is particularly dependent on our mature female fashion offer, which is the Our aim is to have 25 stores across the UK giving 85% biggest segment of our business.
All consumer dynamics of the population physical access to our Jacamo and emphasise this strategic opportunity an aging population, Simply Be brands.
We now have nine stores having opened increasing dress sizes and a growing propensity for fashion a further two this year, in Leeds and Derby, both of which home shopping.
During the second half we have reduced are performing in line with model expectations.
the line-up of titles from seven to three with further migration Our stores have a rich set of multi-channel capabilities to come in the first half of 2014.
This should ensure that including Click & Collect, in-store kiosks, and tabletwhen we re-launch the JD Williams brand in the autumn, enabled service support from our colleagues.
We are we can focus our advertising on one key brand with a also successfully signing up customers for credit accounts, primary objective to attract new customers, whilst retaining data capture shows that store customers go on to be the loyalty of our existing large base.
multi-channel customers and are our most profitable group.
The halo effect on online sales in store catchments is 5%.
The project to make the brand more contemporary in terms of the product range and presentation is well underway.
We plan to open a further seven stores by October which The improvements will also reflect in adjusted stock phasing includes a flagship store on Oxford Street in September.
to improve the percentage of newness throughout the Systems Infrastructure Development season.
For launch we will also be adjusting the range price mix to improve value for money for customers.
The initiative Over the past year we have been scoping a business-wide will be supported by an investment in marketing, both direct project to redesign our processes and supporting systems response to drive increases in new customer numbers, and infrastructure to ensure we can deliver industry leading also in brand awareness to establish longer term health of services and operational efficiencies both now and in the JD Williams and attract a broader range of customers.
We have selected products and partners to facilitate this and have now moved into high level design phase.
International USA We are simplifying our business and creating the In terms of the years performance, customer numbers foundations for omni-channel, multi-national expansion grew by 28% in spite of a reduction in recruitment activity whilst retaining our product and brand propositions which between August and November.
This was due to poor we believe are relevant and scalable.
We have identified second order rates in the first half which we addressed by significant benefits from both increased revenues and making service improvements, including tracked shipping, reduced costs and expect those to flow from 2016. which launched in November.
Since then second order rates have improved by 10% and are rising and we have resumed a faster rate of customer recruitment.
Full year sales were up 21% year on year.
We have adjusted our strategy to exclusively focus on the fashion focused larger sized female in the US market Angela Spindler using our Simply Be brand.
We estimate that this market is worth $6bn and is currently poorly served.
Our Simply Be plan for the USA is to tailor our ranges to that target audience, invest some of our strong product margin in better pricing and promotions and deliver on-going service and web experience improvements.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15
