5 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Chief Executive Officers review exist prior to our involvement.
The remaining 3 incidents Background occurred at our more developed operations, employing 2014 was a year of challenges and opportunities for Glencore.
110,000 people, representing a world class safety performance: The gradual process of normalisation following the financial our ongoing challenge and commitment is to embed this crisis has continued, but at a slower pace than many expected.
performance into the aforementioned focus assets.
We are In fact, some of the most important legacies of the crisis overall encouraged that the number of fatalities is lower continue to drag on, including those relating to Europe.
than in previous years, and remain determined to eliminate From a geopolitical perspective we have seen heightened fatalities completely.
During 2013 we initiated the SafeWork tension in the Middle East and the resurgence ofconflict programme to enhance safety in the workplace.
now been rolled out worldwide and 118,000 employees were trained during 2014.
The long-term injury frequency rate Financial performance declined from 1.87 to 1.58.
These improvements reflect the Against this background we completed the integration focused implementation of safety best practice procedures at of Xstrata during 2014 and achieved the targeted pre-tax our operations, championed and led by our Board and senior margin and cost synergies of $2.4 billion.
Further cash flow management team.
In May 2014 we joined the International improvements are expected over the next two years as the Council on Mining and Metals ICMM : recognition that we balance of our legacy expansionary capital programmes are have been implementing best practices across the Group.
In marketing, the integration of Xstratas coal, copper and zinc production, combined with Viterras infrastructure, Looking forwards helped deliver Adjusted EBIT of $2.8 billion, up 18% on 2013.
We remain committed to a strong BBB Baa balance sheet and This performance, despite weaker commodity prices for our clearly established disciplined approach to allocating many of our key commodities, was particularly pleasing capital.
We will focus only on high-returning opportunistic and once again demonstrates the resilience of our business M&A and brownfield growth opportunities.
The performance of our industrial activities inevitably goal remains to grow our free cash flow and return excess reflected the weaker price environment, particularly capital in the most sustainable and efficient manner.
As the in energy products, where price falls were the greatest.
most diversified raw material producer and marketer, Industrial Adjusted EBITDA was down 7% to $9.8 billion.
Glencore is well positioned to react to and benefit from However, despite the weaker market environment, overall changes in commodity fundamentals.
Glencore will continue Group Adjusted EBITDA only declined by a modest 2% to to focus on maximising the value of the potential within $12.8 billion.
We also continued to selectively recycle capital.
Notable deals In response to the challenging market environment we have included the sale of the Las Bambas copper project in Peru for decided to curtail coal production at Optimum in South $6.5 billion net of tax and the consolidation of the Caracal Africa and a number of our coal operations in Australia oil assets in Chad.
Despite the generally weaker commodity to better align volumes and qualities with current market price backdrop, we are pleased to announce a final cash demand.
Further to these coal production changes and distribution for 2014 of $12 cents per share.
We were able to associated capex reductions deferrals, following a recent grow our base cash distribution in 2014.
Additionally, we review of the Groups overall asset portfolio in response to have also recently announced an in specie distribution of weaker prices and aided by lower input costs, we are now our non-core stake in Lonmin and we have now completed guiding 2015 industrial capex to the $6.5-6.8 billion range, the buy-back of $1 billion of our equity, delivering c. 1.2% compared to our earlier Investor Day guidance of $7.9 billion.
Glencore will have returned $9.3 billion to its shareholders since the IPO in 2011 inclusive of $639 million While there remains the potential for future economic ofrepurchased convertible bonds.
setbacks and no shortage of bearishness towards commodities in financial markets, physical demand for our raw materials Corporate governance remains healthy.
We anticipate tightening supply conditions We have strengthened our Board of Directors with the to materialise in our key commodities in response to lower appointment of Patrice Merrin and the elevation of Tony prices, production investment cutbacks and falling grades.
Hayward to the role of permanent Chairman.
Peter Grauer We would like to thank our employees, debt capital providers has assumed the role of Senior Independent Director.
and shareholders for their support during 2014 and look forward to the future with confidence.
Sustainability It is with great sadness that we report 16 fatalities at our operations in 2014.
This regrettably high level partly reflects the nature, location and history of some of the operations which Glencore has acquired.
13 of the 16 fatalities occurred Ivan Glasenberg at a small number of assets employing 71,000 people, located in challenging geographies where a culture of safety did not Chief Executive Officer
