Chief Executive Officers Statement A CLEAR AND UNWAVERING FOCUS ON CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE Weve made good progress towards delivering our strategic objective of achieving sustainable organic growth.
PV investment Strategy and progress overview exposed to connectivity markets, which is underpinned by The Board has a clear and unwavering focus on creating strong macro growth trends, this will continue to be a focus value for Cobhams shareholders through leveraging the for the Group.
6.7% Groups innovative technology, know-how and understanding of customer requirements to build and Organic strategy and execution 2013: 6.2% maintain leading positions in the second and third tiers We increased PV investment in the year to 97m of commercial aerospace, marine, wireless and other land 2013: 88m, representing 6.7% of revenue 2013: 6.2%.
markets and the global defence security market.
We will deliver sustainable top and bottom line growth, relative We continued to focus this investment on our leading edge to the markets in which we operate, while consistently technologies where there is most opportunity for profitable generating good free cash flow.
growth, investing in a range of exciting new products and technologies, including the following examples: Our strategy has two major strands.
The first is an organic strategy, based on the three pillars of continuously investing Development and launch of the SATCOM SAILOR 100 in the business, improving execution and increasing GX system for the marine market and the EXPLORER customer intimacy.
We invest to keep our technology, 5075 GX system for the land market.
Shipments of people and processes at the cutting edge in the markets SATCOM terminals are expected to benefit from the in which we operate.
Maintaining technology differentiation global entry into commercial service of the Inmarsat GX is critical to the future success of the business and it needs satellite constellation.
This is currently anticipated to be to be backed up with flawless execution to meet ever early in the second half of 2015, with Inmarsat Commercial revenue increasing customer expectations.
This includes maintaining announcing the successful launch of the second of an efficient, competitive cost base.
The combination of three satellites in February 2015: these pillars enables us to compete effectively and deliver The Semiconductor Solutions business, formerly part 39% organic growth.
of Aeroflex, has successfully developed and brought to market a 90nm application specific integrated circuit for 2013: 35% This organic investment is supplemented by using the healthy use in space, delivering size and weight benefits to its cash flows that the business generates and its balance sheet customers together with reduced power requirements: capacity to acquire businesses that operate in the same or The Mission Systems Sector has developed its on-board closely adjacent markets.
This further strengthens our leading oxygen system OBOGS, which has been used for market positions and ensures our portfolio is exposed to military applications for the general and business markets that are growing organically as we move through aviation markets.
First revenue is expected in 2015. economic cycles.
Potential acquisitions must have similar OBOGS has a number of advantages over alternative operating characteristics and leading edge technology or technologies including being cheaper to use as well as know-how.
As two thirds of the Groups portfolio is now being lighter.
It also has additional safety features: Cobham plc www.
com 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Within the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, the connectivity and bandwidth, so that approximately two Strategic Overview technology focus within its defence businesses has been thirds of the Groups revenue is now focused in this area.
Our strategic priorities allow us to: on developing smaller and lighter products which use Aeroflex is a leading global provider of radio frequency Deliver growth less power, provide enhanced mission effectiveness and and microwave subsystems and components for critical and Generate free cash flow which are less costly for customers.
These are for priority harsh environments.
It also operates in high end, technologydefence applications including: ship protection, the next led segments of the wireless and communications market, Create shareholder value generation of radar and contested airspace applications.
having a leading position in the provision of technology for The seven strategic priorities that enable specialist wireless infrastructure testing applications.
Aeroflex us to return to sustainable growth are: Total Group R&D investment, including customer funded has similar revenue growth potential to Cobham, with similar projects, was 198m 2013: 186m.
The increase in trading margins and cash generation characteristics.
Innovation with insight customer funded R&D was primarily driven by ongoing 2.
F ocus on components major development activity on aerial refuelling programmes.
We have been pleased with the trading performance of and subsystems Total Group R&D investment, including customer funded Aeroflex in the period since completion, which has been 3.
Leverage our technology projects, was 198m 2013: 186m.
The increase in in line with the Boards plan.
Aeroflex also brings substantial customer funded R&D was primarily driven by ongoing revenue and cost synergy opportunities.
Focus on M&A major development activity on aerial refuelling programmes business has been combined with Cobhams Advanced 5.
Operational excellence which, as they move through this phase, tend to generate Electronic Solutions Sector, so that they are now being 6.
Programme execution lower margins and so dilute the Groups overall margin managed together, having considerable complementary performance.
In February 2015 we also announced we technology and customer cross-selling opportunities.
Invest in skills and would make a one-off provision of 15m on these There are also opportunities for synergy between Aeroflexs capabilities programmes, addressing cost escalation.
However, these wireless business and existing Cobham businesses, including are critical programmes and we are confident that they Axell Wireless.
These businesses have also been placed See page 14 for more information.
will lead to significant future streams of production and under common management as part of Cobhams aftermarket revenue over an extended timeframe.
In addition to our investment in our core technology We remain encouraged by the overall potential scope capabilities we have, as anticipated, substantially for realising synergies from combining the companies, concluded the successful multi-year EiD programme.
targeting some US$85m on an annualised, run rate basis, EiD has succeeded in significantly reducing the cost base for a total cost of US$215m.
Approximately 60% of the through a targeted programme of site integrations and benefits and 70% of the costs are expected to be in the rationalisations.
These, when combined with business first three years of ownership.
The integration of the two improvements, have enabled us to deliver the anticipated businesses has got off to a good start, with good early 24m of year-on-year efficiency savings in the year, bringing progress on delivering the underlying synergies identified total annualised benefits to 100m since the programme including a significant reduction in central costs, the was launched in 2010.
These savings have, in part, been commencement of supply chain initiatives and the used to significantly increase organic investment, including announcement of the first major physical site integration.
in technology and in skills and capabilities.
Conclusion The Group has transitioned to a new operational In 2014 we made significant progress on the delivery of structure in the year, through its organisational design Cobhams strategic objectives.
Completing the Aeroflex project, with four realigned Sectors replacing the four acquisition was a key highlight, increasing the Groups See page 28 for more information Divisions and it has strengthened its senior management exposure to growing commercial markets, and Aeroflexs on our financial performance and reporting structure to align it with the drive to deliver post acquisition trading and integration has been in line with sustainable growth.
This progress enhances Cobhams position as a technology company with exciting prospects Capital deployment strategy based on its close customer relationships, differentiated In the context of maintaining a robust balance sheet, technology and know-how, market leading positions and which enables recurring business commitments to be met, an increasingly strong operational foundation.
For further information visit us including external financing and pension obligations, the online at www.
com key elements of our capital deployment strategy are: Overall we have made significant progress on the delivery of our strategic objectives in 2014 and, as anticipated, To prioritise investment in the business for Cobham remains well positioned to deliver mid-single organic growth: digit organic revenue growth from 2015.
To maintain a progressive dividend policy: and To utilise the balance sheet and strong cash generation to acquire businesses that reinforce our differentiated technology and know-how, in particular where these enable us to leverage our capabilities into adjacent, growing commercial markets.
Bob Murphy Chief Executive Officer Acquisition of Aeroflex 4 March 2015 In 2014, as well as continuing to meet our strategic objectives in respect of organic investment and dividends, we have increased our exposure towards growing, commercial markets through the acquisition of Aeroflex, for an enterprise value of approximately US$1,460m.
In total, some 70% of Aeroflexs revenue is generated from commercial markets.
Consistent with Cobhams strategy, Aeroflexs revenue is connectivity focused, further increasing exposure to the growing demand for data, www.
com Cobham plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
