Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements CEOs Statement Continued strategic progress Order growth is a key measure of We are committed to leading the industry and improving our JUST EATs success.
It illustrates how consumers experience.
During 2014, we continued our mobilewell we have executed on our strategy led product evolution, with our web refresh meaning users see the same product flow, whatever device they are using.
We and reinforces the attractiveness of expanded our pilot in real-time order tracking with trials now our market for the long-term.
In the long-term, we believe our ability to orders grew by 52% to 61.2 million, innovate at scale will profoundly change the consumer worth over 1 billion to our restaurant experience and reinforce the benefits of building the leading market place for the fragmented takeaway industry.
Our technology gives us a real competitive advantage in bringing Revenue grew 62% to 157.0 million.
JUST EAT has more than a decade of experience in building, operating and enhancing a complex real-time Underlying EBITDA increased to 32.6 eCommerce platform.
At peak, we now process 1,100 orders million from 14.1 million, which is an per minute through our contracted network, demonstrating excellent result in a period where we our ability to reliably deliver scalable solutions to our 45,700 made significant investment in our restaurant partners.
We have recently worked on expanding into the collection market and have now signed over 1,000 future growth.
collection-only restaurants in the UK: initial results from this market are positive.
We believe that television remains the best way to reach a mass-market audience, to help create and strengthen our brand and accelerate channel shift from telephone to online.
We remain strongly committed to building our brand in all of our markets, and we are now a TV brand in the majority of them.
This investment increases loyalty and consumer allegiance to JUST EAT, ensuring we remain the clear choice for hungry consumers.
In the UK, top-of-mind 1 awareness increased from 39% in December 2013 to 44% in December 2014.
In our business, being market leader is critical for many reasons, crucially to ensure the consumer has a strong single source of information and choice in a highly fragmented sector.
We continue to build clear leadership positions wherever we operate.
In Brazil, we merged our business with iFood to give us a 25% share of the undisputed market leader, increasing our stake to 30% after year-end.
In France we increased our share in market leading alloresto.
These deals have strengthened our position in two of our key international markets.
We also cemented our leadership position in Ireland with the purchase of Eatcity.
1 Based on a UK survey conducted by YouGov of adult takeaway users.
8 JUST EAT plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Orders up 52% to Clear priorities We have a clear focus on delivering on our three strategic initiatives, including completing appropriate M&A and developing 61.2M our people for the long-term.
14 1 61.2m We are continuing to increase our investment in engineering and 13 40.2m product into 2015, to accelerate the introduction of new features 12 25.3m on our platforms.
We are driving channel shift through initiatives 11 13.9m such as mobile and brand refresh: improving the consumer experience through innovation and improved information whilst expanding choice through restaurant signings.
Revenue up 62% to We completed seven M&A transactions during the year and three post year-end.
These delivered on our stated aims of acquiring leaders in markets of scale, making in-market acquisitions and 157.0M advancing our technology base.
14 1 157.0m People are integral to what we do and we have an outstanding 13 96.8m team of more than 1,500 passionate and dedicated JUST EATers.
12 59.8m We are committed to enhancing our team by selective 11 33.8m recruitment and developing our existing team through our in-house talent management programmes.
We have opened a new office in Bristol with support from Invest Bristol & Bath and Underlying EBITDA up 131% to are building a relationship with the University of Bristol to attract the best technical engineering graduates in the West Country and Wales, an area with a history of success within the 32.6M technology sector.
Outlook 14 1 32.6m 13 14.1m Looking forward, we must capitalise on our clear leadership 12 2.3m positions both in established markets such as the UK and in 11 0.1m large, developing markets such as France, Brazil and Spain, markets of significant scale but in which online ordering is still at an early stage.
Building leadership positions in those markets will create great long-term value for shareholders.
Going into 2015, JUST EAT is in a very strong position.
We are on track to deliver on our growth targets and in 2015 we currently expect revenues marginally in excess of 200 million, at current exchange rates.
We will continue to drive channel shift and further strengthen our brand.
We will also continue to innovate and then scale that innovation, to ensure new products and features are available to the vast majority of our 8.1 million Active Users, truly #minifistpump empowering them to love their takeaway experience.
We remain strongly committed to building a brand in all of our markets, further supported by the launch of our #minifistpump campaign this year.
