CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT DISCIPLINED GROWTH DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER VALUE Revenue for the Group increased by 4.1% on a constant currency Compass has had another good basis in the year to 30 September 2014.
Adjusting for the impact of acquisitions and disposals, organic revenue growth for the period year, with strong growth in remained strong at 4.1%.
However, due to the significant strengthening of sterling against many of the Groups key currencies, reported Group North America and Fast Growing revenue declined by 2.8%.
& Emerging and further During the year, we delivered new business growth of 8.5%, driven by strong performances in MAP 1 client sales and marketing in North improvement in Europe & Japan.
America and Fast Growing & Emerging and an improving performance in Europe & Japan.
Our retention rate also remained high at 93.5%, despite the effect of our planned exit of certain uneconomic contracts in Europe and some site closures associated with the slowdown in the Australian resources sector.
Like for like revenue growth of 2.1% reflects modest price increases and slightly positive like for like volume.
Like for like volume continues to be broadly flat in North America and positive in Fast Growing & Emerging.
In Europe & Japan, like for like volume, although still negative overall, has shown an improving trend over the period.
We have retained our focus on increasing consumer participation and spend through MAP 2 consumer sales and marketing initiatives, developing innovative and exciting consumer propositions, and improving our peoples retailing skills.
Underlying operating profit increased by 5.9% in the year on a constant currency basis, with the underlying operating profit margin increasing by 10 basis points to 7.2%.
We have continued to drive efficiencies across the business using our management and performance framework, MAP.
We have maintained our focus on MAP 3 cost of food initiatives such as menu planning and supplier rationalisation, as well as MAP 4 labour and in unit costs and MAP 5 above unit costs.
As well as enabling us to deliver further operating margin improvement, these efficiencies are helping us to invest to support the exciting growth opportunities we see around the world and mitigate negative volumes in parts of Europe.
STRATEGY FOCUS ON FOOD Food remains our core business.
The structural opportunity in the outsourced food service market, estimated at more than 200 billion, is a key growth driver.
With only around 50% of the market currently outsourced, it represents a significant opportunity.
We believe the benefits of outsourcing will become ever more apparent as economic conditions and regulatory changes put increasing pressure on organisations budgets.
As one of the largest providers in all of our sectors, we are well placed to benefit from these trends.
GROWING SUPPORT SERVICES Support services are also an important part of our business and we continue to win new contracts and expand the range of services we supply to our existing clients.
Our largest sector in this market is Defence, Offshore & Remote, where the model is almost universally food combined with support service.
Outside this, we have an excellent Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 10 Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Parent Company financial statements Shareholder information support service business in North America and some well established ONGOING DRIVE FOR EFFICIENCIES operations in other parts of the world.
This is a complex market and We believe that we are only part of the way through the journey to there are significant differences in client buying behaviour across drive further productivity in our cost of food MAP 3 and our in unit countries, sectors and sub sectors.
Our approach is therefore low risk costs MAP 4, as well as being able to leverage the overhead base by and incremental, with strategies developed on a country by country controlling our above unit costs MAP 5.
The ongoing generation of basis to address the local and international opportunity.
efficiencies enables us to invest in the business and helps underpin our expectation of further margin progression.
GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD AND EMERGING MARKETS Our geographic strategy remains unchanged.
Over the last ten years USES OF CASH AND BALANCE SHEET PRIORITIES the Group has evolved significantly from a predominantly European The Groups cash flow generation remains strong and it will continue based business with just over 11 billion of revenue to the 17 billion to be a key part of the business model.
Going forward, our priorities global business today.
During this time we have halved the number for how we use our cash are the same: i we will continue to invest of countries in which we operate.
in capital expenditure to support organic growth where we see good returns: ii we remain committed to growing the dividend broadly We expect North America 48% of Group revenue to remain the in line with constant currency earnings: iii we look to make small to principal growth engine for the Group.
We have a market leading medium sized infill acquisitions.
After making these investments, we business with excellent management teams delivering high levels of will maintain an efficient balance sheet through returns to shareholders growth and steady margin expansion.
The outsourcing culture is whilst continuing to target strong investment grade credit ratings.
vibrant and the addressable market is significant.
The fundamentals of our businesses in Europe & Japan 34% of SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK Group revenue are good and we see many opportunities to drive Compass has had a good year, delivering solid organic revenue growth growth in revenue and margin.
The actions we have taken to reduce and a 10 basis point increase in the Group operating margin.
North cost and make our operations more competitive are enabling us to America and Fast Growing & Emerging, which account for two thirds increase investment in MAP 1 sales and retention.
This, combined of Group revenue, have grown strongly and we are encouraged by the with better economic conditions, is delivering an improving trend improvement seen through the year in Europe & Japan.
Looking ahead in organic revenue.
to next year, the pipeline of new contracts is healthy and we expect to see further good performances in all of our regions.
Fast Growing & Emerging 18% of Group revenue is an exciting part of our business.
We have a strong presence in key markets such as Looking to the longer term, we remain excited about the attractive Brazil and Turkey, and we are growing rapidly in India and China.
structural growth opportunities in our markets globally and we believe With the potential they offer, we are investing in opportunities and we are well placed to capitalise on them.
We also expect to deliver we would hope to see high levels of growth maintained well into further cost efficiencies, which will help to support future growth and the future.
enable us to make further progress in the operating margin.
As a result, we remain confident in our ability to continue to create significant value Our future looks balanced.
Our business in North America is for our shareholders.
in great shape and growing strongly, and we are seeing a clear acceleration in the emerging markets.
The trends in our European business are improving.
ORGANIC GROWTH, SUPPLEMENTED BY INFILL ACQUISITIONS Sustainable and quality organic growth is our key priority but we continue to seek infill acquisitions where they deliver value to the business.
Our focus is on small to medium sized infill acquisitions in food and support services in our existing geographies, bringing on RICHARD COUSINS board quality businesses and strong management teams.
We continue Group Chief Executive to target financial returns ahead of our cost of capital by the end 26 November 2014 of the second year.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2014 11
