Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Chief Executives Committee Moya Greene Stephen Agar Rico Back Catherine Doran Chief Executive Officer Managing Director, GLS, Chief Executive Officer Chief Information Officer Consumer and Network Access Neil Harnby Mark Higson Matthew Lester Jon Millidge General Counsel Managing Director, Chief Finance Officer Group HR Director Operations and Modernisation Mike Newnham Shane ORiordain Emily Pang Stuart Simpson Chief Customer Officer Managing Director, Company Secretary Deputy Chief Operations Officer Communications, Strategy, Regulation andPricing Sue Whalley Chief Operations Officer Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 41 Chief Executives Committee continued The Group has a focused and committed management team which has driven thereturn of the Group to profitability and the successful implementation of thetransformation programme.
Working closely with key stakeholders including HM Government, Ofcom, trade unions and colleagues, the management team has successfully addressed a number of significant challenges faced by the Group, includingenabling the Company to gain access to external capital.
Moya Greene Chief Executive Officer Stephen Agar Managing Director, Consumer Rico Back Chief Executive Officer, GLS and Network Access See Our Board of Directors on page 39.
Current role Rico was appointed Chief Current role Stephen was appointed Executive Officer of GLS in October 1999.
Managing Director, Consumer & Network Previous work history Rico was founding Access, commencing October 2011.
As such, manager of German Parcel in 1989, which Stephen is responsible for the regulated was acquired by the Group in 1999.
He is a letters business both USO and Access.
member of the CEC and a member of the Previous work history Stephen is a barrister Supervisory Board of Raben Group, a who started his career in the Government haulagecontractor.
Legal Service before moving to Racal Electronics plc.
He joined Royal Mail in 1991 and previous roles with Royal Mail include Business Strategy Director, Regulatory Affairs Director and MD, Royal Mail Wholesale.
Catherine Doran Chief Information Officer Neil Harnby General Counsel Mark Higson Managing Director, Operations and Modernisation Current role Catherine joined Royal Mail in Current role Neil was appointed General September 2011 as Chief Information Officer.
See Our Board of Directors on page 39.
She is a Non-Executive Director for Defra and Previous work history Previously, Neil was General Counsel for the European and Middle BQF.
She is also a member of the CIO Board Eastern Division of GE Capital, the financial for e-skills UK.
services unit of the General Electric Company.
Previous work history Catherine joined Before joining GE, Neil was a Partner at Royal Mail from Network Rail, where she Linklaters LLP.
Neil has a BA Honours degree led the company-wide transformation in History and is a qualified solicitor.
After programme, aimed at achieving multi-billion leaving university, Neil spent five years as pound savings through technology and acommissioned officer in the British army.
Throughout her career, shehas held progressively responsible IT leadership roles in a number of blue chip companies BT, NatWest, Capital One, Logicaand Altergo.
Matthew Lester Chief Finance Officer Jon Millidge Group HR Director Mike Newnham Chief Customer Officer Current role Jon was appointed Group HR Current role Mike was appointed Chief See Our Board of Directors on page 39.
He is also Customer Officer in March 2012.
Chairman of National Design Consultancy Ltd Previous work history Previously, Mike led and a Pension Scheme Trustee of the Royal the Consumer division of Orange in the UK for Mail Defined Contribution Plan.
Prior to that, Mike held a number Previous work history Jon joined Royal Mail of executive board positions at Orange, in 1985 as a graduate and has worked across including running the Consumer Sales and all of the businesses of the Group, notably as Service operations and leading Oranges B2B HR Director in Royal Mail Letters 2003 business.
Mike joined Orange as the UK CFO.
2004, Parcelforce Worldwide 2000 2003 Before joining Orange, Mike was a director at and Subscription Services 1997 1998 and  in the Telecoms, as General Manager inthePost Office 1999 Media and Technology practice.
He was previously Company Honours degree in Management Science and Secretary from May 2010 to February 2014 is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
and prior to that was the Acting Group HR Director.
Jon is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and of The Chartered Institute of Personnel Development.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Shane ORiordain Managing Director, Emily Pang Company Secretary Communications, Strategy, Regulation and Current role Emily was appointed as Pricing.
Company Secretary in February 2014, in Current role Shane was appointed Managing addition to her current responsibilities.
She Director, Communications in November 2010, joined the Group as Chief of Staff for Royal joining from Lloyds Banking Group.
He has Mail Group in April 2011. subsequently assumed responsibility for Previous work history Prior to joining Royal Strategy, Regulation and Pricing.
Mail, Emily was at Canada Post where she Previous work history Shane was previously was Executive Chief of Staff, Office of the Group Corporate Affairs Director at a number President and CEO and the interim Lead of FTSE 10 companies Lloyds Banking Group Executive for Human Resources.
Prior to that and HBOS, as well as at Halifax and Flemings.
she worked at CIBC, a major Canadian bank.
In these roles, his responsibilities spanned Her experience there spanned Executive customer, business-to-business and City PR, Director, Business Management in the issues management, internal communications, wholesale business: Senior Director, sponsorship, community investment, and Investorand Financial Communications, government relations at both UK and EU Communications and Public Affairs: as well levels.
Previously, Shane was a diplomat in as positions in Finance and Taxation.
Emily is the Irish Diplomatic Service, with postings a Chartered Accountant and holds a Bachelor in Dublin, Belfast and Washington DC.
of Commerce and an Executive MBA from the Shane has a degree in Public Administration, joint York University Northwestern University, Masters degrees in Business Administration Kellogg-Schulich Program.
and Organisational Behaviour and is an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute.
Stuart Simpson Deputy Chief Operations Sue Whalley Chief Operations Officer Officer Current role Sue joined Royal Mail in2006 Current role Stuart was appointed Deputy and was appointed Chief Operations Officer in Chief Operating Officer in January 2014.
She is responsible for leading to this, he was running Operations for the the next phase of the transformation in West Region of the UK and was the Finance Operations, with specific focus on further Director for UK Operations.
development of culture, safety, quality and efficiency.
Previous work history Before joining the Royal Mail in 2009, Stuart worked in the Previous work history Before joining Royal automotive industry for 15 years with senior Mail in September 2006, Sue worked at roles in Finance and Strategy, the last ten McKinsey and Company for 17 years, the last of which were based outside the UK.
Roles six of which were as a partner in their London included the FD of SAAB AB and latterly the office.
She was also co-leader of McKinseys FD for General Motors Global Family Car European Marketing and retail practices.
Stuart qualified as a Chartered has an MA from Cambridge University and an Accountant with Arthur Andersen.
MBA from Harvard Business School.
Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 March 2014 43
