Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement The skill, knowhow and dedication of our people are what drives our innovation, differentiates us from our competitors and fuels our success.
Overview 2014 was a very challenging year for the global chemical industry, withslower emerging and mature markets, consumer confidence fragile and significant exchange rate volatility.
In order to move our business closer to our customers, we adopted a new organisational structure in2014, which created three core market led sectors: Personal Care, our largest sector, has been steadily returning to growth, driving strong sales from innovation in high value products, expanding into developing markets and providing better support toour international customers: Life Sciences has seen strong growth.
In Health Care, our high purity drug delivery excipients have seen high demand, with successful product launches also including our Omega 3 pharmaceutical active.
Our Crop Care business has continued togrow through innovation partnering with the major global formulators: Performance Technologies has delivered consistent growth all year, in constant currency, especially in Asia and North America andhas a clear focus on niche technologies where we can drive strong added value.
The new organisation is designed to allow our sales, marketing and research groups, in dedicated sector teams, to work more closely together across the world to serve our current and future customers better.
The early signs are encouraging, with many customers, big andsmall, responding positively to the changes, which build on our established business model.
Finally, the new structure will ensure ourrelentless investment in innovation continues to deliver what our customers want from Croda: somethingdifferent.
What were the headline results?
Despite the low growth environment, particularly in Europe, 2014 was a year of further strategic progress.
Whilst this environment impacted our performance inthefirst half, sales improved during the second half of the year aswestarted to see the benefits of our investments ininnovation, research and developmentand emerging markets.
On a constant currency basis, we saw a progressive return to improved sales growth.
On this basis revenue grew by 2.9% in the full year and we saw underlying growth in the second half in all our core market sectors.
On a constant currency basis, adjusted operating profit fromthe threecore sectors increased by 2.9m, with strong profit growth inLife Sciences and Performance Technologies partly offset by weaker profit in Personal Care.
Industrial Chemicals, which largely sells co-stream products produced by other Croda businesses, sawprofits decline due to weak commodity prices and lower tollingvolume.
06 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Of course, the relative strength of Sterling had a major impact on Another milestone was our Health Care partnership with Par thetranslation of our results for 2014 reducing revenue by 5.7% and Pharmaceuticals Par in North America.
Par launched a new adjusted operating profit by 4.5%.
As a result, overall revenue  our high purity Omega 3.
Adjusted operating  success to date with Omega 3 and profit declined by 6.1% to 248.4m 2013: 264.6m and adjusted .
IFRS profit before tax The growing evidence is that our strategy is working.
we set out to build our infrastructure by expanding our research and Q.
How did the new global market sectors perform?
development R&D, sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities After a weak start in Personal Care, we saw sales improvement in Asia and Latin America, bringing us closer to our customers and duringthe year driven largely by a pick up in sales in high value reducing our exposure to Europe.
Throughout 2014 we enjoyed very products, although the mass market remained weak.
The output strong growth in Asia and, in the second half, in North America and ofour innovation continued to be impressive with sales of New Latin America.
andProtected Products NPP growing significantly.
What have been the major challenges?
well throughout the year and North and Latin America recovered well Undeniably, the first half of 2014 was challenging.
We were in the second half.
Europe remained subdued throughout the year.
caughtinaperfect storm: significant adverse currency translation Overall, Personal Care sales were broadly flat in constant currency, and transaction impacts, a subdued Europe, and weak demand but adjusted operating profit reduced 6.6% in constant currency forPersonal Care products, due to fragile consumer confidence 11.6% on a reported basis, and return on sales declined to 31.8% inmature and emerging markets.
toourstrategy paid off and, in the second half, it was satisfying to Life Sciences performed well, with revenue growing 7.9% in constant returntoan improved sales growth of 3.2%.
Nevertheless, Europe currency 2.0% on a reported basis.
This was driven by our Health continues tobe challenging and we have implemented a series of Care business.
We saw strong demand for high purity drug delivery initiatives to streamline, simplify and reduce our cost base in the excipients and we started the first sales of our Omega 3 active region.
We have aclear focus on driving efficiency savings to help pharmaceutical ingredient for heart health in the third quarter.
Crop keep us competitive inEurope, whilst reinvesting resource in faster Care had a successful year in Asia, but was affected by weak demand growth markets globally.
arising from extreme weather inNorth and Latin America and low Q.
How have 2013s strategic themes of differentiation, crop prices.
However, the underlying trends remained good, with innovation and investment for a sustainable future developed sales recovering in the secondhalf of the year.
Overall, Life Sciences this year?
adjusted operating profit increased 15.0% in constant currency These themes are neatly captured in our 120m investment in 10.4% on a reported basis and return on sales improved to 31.6% ourAtlas Point manufacturing site in North America.
Atlas Point to produce 100% sustainable non-ionic surfactants, by In Performance Technologies revenue was up 5.7% in constant using bio-ethanol rather than petrochemicals to produce ethylene currency unchanged on a reported basis, with Asia and North oxide.
These plant derived products will create the widest range of America particularly buoyant.
bio-based non-ionic surfactants on the market and are the first of Boththe Lubricants and Geo Technologies business areas were theirkind inNorth America, at a time when our customers increasingly particularly strong with long term growthpotential across these and askformore sustainable ingredients to meet consumer demand.
Overall, Performance Technologies adjusted Differentiation, innovation and investment were also evident in the operating profit increased 4.5% in constant currency 1.8% on a acquisitions that brought in new technologies: thelaunch of niche reportedbasis.
new products, such as expanding our Matrixyl brand that helps Q.
What were the highlights of the year?
leading skin care companies make advanced anti-ageing claims: A key element of our strategy is delivering world class innovation.
andour innovation partnerships with SMEs, worldleading universities Thisis what sets us apart from our competitors and 2014 was an and start-ups.
excellent year for new products.
Strong customer demand for these ingredients led to accelerating levels of innovation, with sales of our NPP up13.0% in constant currency.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement continued Q.
Why did you move from a regional to a global organisation Q.
How are you developing your people in support of inMay 2014 and is it paying off?
We had been planning this reorganisation for some time.
Many of our We are a knowledge based business and our people are key customers are international, so, to align ourselves with them, we need differentiators.
As we grow, we are spending more time in recruiting to be organised in the same way.
Our global structure will enable us and retaining people with the best skills to equip the organisation toget closer to our customers, helping us better understand and forthe challenges that lie ahead.
In constantly looking to improve meet their needs via more aligned R&D and customer service.
Our ouroffering to our customers, we have to build our expertise across global approach also allows us to leverage our product portfolio allfunctions, ensuring that we have a pipeline of talented people at across geographies, developing European and North American alllevels of our organisation.
products foremerging markets to help local and regional customers.
Let me thank all the individuals who make up our global team, across Its early days, but the initial signs are encouraging.
Were thinking 34 countries, for their enduring commitment.
Although we keep on more strategically, understanding the complexities of international growing, certain characteristics continue to unite our people: they customers better, responding more quickly to their needs and being aredown to earth, responsive to customer needs, experts about our increasingly viewed by all our customers as one global team, often industries, entrepreneurial and creative, with a special ability to form working as an extension of their own team.
Those qualities, like the strength of our innovation, are what will continue to differentiate us.
With sustainability central to your brand and business, did your sustainability credentials lead directly to growth in 2014?
In conclusion, as we look to 2015 and beyond, we have the right We are passionate about sustainability, both because it is the strategy to deliver our three key strategic objectives: delivering rightthing to do and because it differentiates us in the eyes of our consistent top and bottom line growth, increasing the proportion customers.
In 2014 we have led the way in offering a wide range ofnew and protected product sales, and investing in a ofingredients that support sustainable palm oil, which attracted sustainablefuture.
immediate and growing demand from customers.
We have beaten our non-fossil fueltarget a year ahead of schedule, with 25.5% ofthe Groups energy coming from such sources.
These and our planned investments, like those at Atlas Point, will continue to secure our sustainable future and support that of our customers.
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive 08 Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Being different in the way we approach our markets, customers and innovation, sets us apart from our competitors.
Ourpeople are united by a special culture of collaboration, innovation andentrepreneurism that guides their actions and decisions.
In short, being different will ensure we safeguard ourlong term sustainable future.
Croda Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09
