Chief Executives review We are well positioned to capitalise on opportunities to seamlessly connect people, devices and information, as well as benefitting from the growing interest in the Internet of Things.
Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Ocer Financial review of the year increased overall profitability and underlying earnings per ordinary 2014 saw CSR continue to make progress in line with our Business share compared to 2013.
Model, which is summarised in this report.
Overall though, our Core Driven by the growth in stereo wireless audio devices such as revenue was $703.0m 2013: $722.3m.
This decline against the soundbars, headphones and remote speakers, Voice & Music prior year reected lower revenues from the automotive aftermarket achieved revenue of $346.6 million, an increase of 11% and PND sectors in our Auto business, weaker performance in against 2013.
Consumer primarily Gaming and Cameras segments, and specic non-recurring demand from customers in China for the Voice & We saw a decline in Auto, with revenue of $201.0 million, a Music segments mono-headset technology, which we experienced decrease of 12% against 2013.
Within Auto, we experienced in the first half of 2013 and which did not recur in 2014.
However, growth in the Auto factory-t market.
Factory-t now represents Voice & Music business achieved year on year growth in revenue the majority of our Auto business and we consider this market when compared with 2013 as a result of the increasing demand for offers good future growth opportunities.
This is due primarily to the our leading-edge technologies in this segment.
We also saw increased adoption of connectivity and infotainment solutions by growth in the proportion of our Auto revenues derived from the automotive OEMs in their new vehicles.
We continue to work with supply of our products to the factory-t market.
Each of these is some of the largest companies in the automotive market to develop discussed in more detail on the following pages.
a broadening range of solutions that support consumer demands for in-dash GPS functionality, audio and connectivity products.
As a result, we saw good year on year growth in Core revenue for the second half of 2014.
For the whole of 2014, we also saw STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Business Model Fabless Five markets R&D Our goal is to deliver growing We are a fabless semiconductor We focus on our chosen end markets, In order to be at the forefront of shareholder returns by generating company.
We design and develop and aim to use our integrated and our chosen markets, we make revenue growth and increasing semiconductor integrated circuits differentiated technology platforms, significant investment in research profitability.
We seek to do this by and software, and subcontract the with the goal of achieving sustainable and development R&D.
During focusing our investment on markets manufacture wafer fabrication, growth with higher margins and 2014, we spent $240.9 million on that are fast growing and where we packaging and test of our products returns.
can deliver differentiated platforms to independent third parties.
enhanced and connected platforms in The majority of our products under with a leading market position.
We Our manufacturing is mostly our Voice & Music, Auto and design are to be manufactured on the aim to build a strong portfolio of subcontracted to TSMC, a world-class Consumer business areas, where we 40nm node, as moving to a smaller innovative multifunction platforms foundry, and ASE, a leading provider believe we can achieve a strong lithography can enable a lower using our connectivity, location, audio of semiconductor manufacturing position.
We focus on five strategic bill-of-materials cost to the customer.
and document imaging technologies services, and is predominantly end markets in our Core business We continue to have dedicated for the market segments as described undertaken in Taiwan other locations group Automotive Infotainment, processes which underpin the on pages 14 and 15.
The delivery of include South Korea, China and Bluetooth Smart, Document Imaging, evaluation of new ideas from their this strategy has been supported by a Singapore.
Our solutions increasingly Voice & Music and the nascent market conception through their development combination of acquisitions and include software, both on our chips of Indoor Location which we believe to market launch.
We also remain organic growth, which has allowed us will enable us to generate sustainable and as part of broader system focused on maintaining control of our to broaden the technologies we have solutions.
revenue growth with good margins underlying operating expenses, under development.
It has also over the medium and longer term.
Our We sell directly to the producers of which include underlying R&D costs.
widened our market presence and objective is to develop higher margin consumer electronic equipment, customer base.
As a result, we have platforms in markets that we expect will as well as to original design moved beyond the design and supply outgrow the overall semiconductor manufacturers and distributors, and of single technology semiconductor market.
We expect our total therefore our technologies and their products and related software serviceable addressable market to lifecycles are impacted by the product solutions predominantly using the grow from approximately $4.0 billion cycle of many consumer endBluetooth standard for the mobile in 2014 to $6.6 billion in 2019, products.
handset that characterised our focus excluding revenue from the yet to be following our IPO in 2004. commercially introduced market of Indoor Location, representing a compound annual growth rate of 11%.
8 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
