Chairmans and Chief Executives statement Introduction Afren had an extremely challenging year in 2014.
Following the unauthorised payments issue discovered in July, the Board initially suspended and then dismissed the former CEO, Osman Shahenshah, and former COO, Shahid Ullah, as well as two Associate Directors, Iain Wright and Galib Virani.
Their actions significantly affected the confidence of all our stakeholders.
Operationally, Afren also encountered a number of headwinds The results together with the strains of operating in a significantly in 2014.
Operational delays impacted the timing of the production lower oil price environment, severely impacted our business at ramp-up across our producing asset base which, when combined the start of 2015 and led to wide ranging refinancing proposals with the rapid deterioration in the oil price environment during being discussed with our lenders and advisers as well as third the second half of the year, meant that our financial performance parties.
Following such a review, the Company concluded that fell well below our expectations.
a transaction with its current creditors offered the best alternative that was capable of being implemented.
These were agreed in The impact of the lower oil prices resulted in an impairment principle and announced on 13 March 2015, after the Company charge of US$273 million in respect of the carrying value of our had deferred certain amortisation and interest payments due production and development assets.
In addition, as a result of the under its secured Ebok facility and 2016 Senior Notes.
liquidity constraints of the business, future capital expenditure on our exploration and evaluation E&E assets has been curtailed The Company has successfully raised US$200 million in interim and has led to an additional impairment charge of US$839 million.
funding and further deferred a US$50 million amortisation Despite this, the Group believes that upside potential remains in payment.
This interim funding is expected to be refinanced by respect of the E&E portfolio and is optimistic of making recoveries a broader financial and capital restructuring to be implemented on some of the assets that have been fully impaired through either in the early part of H2 2015.
The objective of this restructuring, development or sale.
which is intended to raise a further US$55 million to US$105 million in net cash proceeds, is to recapitalise the business, extend the Following an updated reserves report from RPS Energy, an impairment maturity of our debt, lower our cost base and focus the charge of US$933 million was recognised in respect of the Barda Companys operational efforts towards achieving production and Rash PSC.
This reflected the operational and technical challenges cash flow increases from our existing Nigerian production base, that were encountered in drilling a field which proved to be as outlined in our business plan.
These measures should enable markedly different to our initial assessment and the approved Afren to benefit favourably from any potential upward re-rating Field Development Plan FDP.
in the oil price dynamics but at the same time ensure the business The decline in production and revenue, associated with can return to profitability from a lower oil price base.
unprecedented impairments, resulted in a loss before tax from We continue to see value in our portfolio and are confident that continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2014 of we can emerge from the difficulties of the past nine months US$1,955 million.
While the Groups cash position was US$237 as a more nimble, well governed and transparent business.
million as at 31 December 2014, its liquidity was further impacted as a result of restricted and segregated cash balances in place to address operational requirements.
Mr Toby Hayward Mr Egbert Imomoh Interim Chief Executive Officer Executive Chairman 10 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Cultivating the right culture procedures, the Company engaged WFG and also KPMG to assist it with certain elements of its review of its compliance with such As part of the evolution of an entrepreneurial business that procedures.
In connection with this review, on 20 March 2015, Afren witnessed rapid growth in a relatively short space of time, it is fair announced that it had reported to the committee of the bondholders to say that while we had the right systems and processes in place, who are subject to the ongoing discussions around interim funding, there were a number of issues with the culture at the top of our preliminary concerns regarding the hire of an individual within organisation that rendered the day-to-day implementation of its operations in 2012 and the payment of certain travel and these ineffective.
accommodation expenses connected to Afrens activities.
WFG has On 31 July 2014, Afren announced that during the course of an undertaken a substantial review of such matters, which is still ongoing independent review on the Boards behalf by Willkie Farr & Gallagher but which is almost complete save for some follow-up in relation to UK LLP WFG of the potential need for disclosure to the market of these two issues.
As disclosed in note 4.8 to the financial statements, certain previous transactions see note 1.6 to the financial statements, having received the preliminary findings from the WFG review, the evidence was identified in respect of the receipt of unauthorised Company has also notified the Serious Fraud Office SFO and has taken payments amounting to US$45 million for the benefit of the former steps to halt its previous practices in relation to such expense payments.
CEO Osman Shahenshah, former COO Shahid Ullah and other The findings from WFG have clearly demonstrated a need to selected employees and third parties associated with the Ebok strengthen our corporate culture, organisation and accountabilities.
This led initially to the suspension of these two individuals Following an internal review during 2014, and prior to the discovery and the appointment of Egbert Imomoh to Executive Chairman of the unauthorised payments, we undertook a project to completely previously Non-Executive Chairman and Toby Hayward as Interim re-design the Companys Code of Business Conduct and to train all CEO previously Senior Independent Director.
On 13 October 2014, employees and contractors on its requirements.
This exercise was following the completion of this review by WFG, the Board decided extended following the discovery of the unauthorised payments, to terminate the employment and directorships of the former to include a more detailed training exercise which was completed CEO and COO with immediate effect on the grounds of gross by all staff by the end of the year.
Furthermore, the Board also decided to terminate the employment of the two Associate Directors Iain Wright and Galib The new Code contains 15 commitments which govern the activities Virani, who received payments in breach of the Companys of staff members and contractors.
They embrace all aspects of the approved remuneration policy.
They address bribery, gifts and entertainment, conflicts of interest, sanctions, use of Company information technology, In connection with the initial review, WFG also concluded that use of Company physical assets, personal information, business the Company failed to comply with the reporting obligations information, environment and climate change, health and safety, under the Listing Rules in respect of two of the three transactions communities, human rights, inclusive workplace behaviour, working investigated.
Afren has notified the Financial Conduct Authority with others and dealing in Company securities.
Each commitments FCA in respect of these breaches and continues to cooperate with section contains guidance on the Groups approach.
Furthermore, as part of their review and at the request explains how the Group addresses corporate responsibility matters of Afren, WFG engaged KPMG LLP KPMG to undertake an and contains advice on what personnel should do if they are aware independent review of the accounting for the three transactions of Code breaches.
This information also highlights the Groups investigated.
Following the completion of the final report on confidential whistle-blowing hotline which is run by Safecall, a specialist 28 October 2014, management have reassessed certain accounting provider, together with information on when and how to use it.
judgements made in the prior year and have concluded it is appropriate to restate the financial statements at 31 December 2013.
As previously We are confident that the new Code and the associated training re-iterated, these have not had any impact to the net assets or profit procedures, which reflect industry best practice, will help instil after tax as discussed in detail in note 1.6 to the financial statements.
at every level of the organisation a culture that champions and The payment of US$45 million in unauthorised payments was made promotes the values of honesty, transparency, openness and trust.
by a third party and has had no impact on Afrens financial statements.
Risk management review On 31 December 2014, Afren announced that it had secured an Our risk management programme has continued to evolve throughout agreement to a cash settlement of US$17.1 million in relation to the 2014.
In particular we have carried out a detailed anti-bribery and unauthorised payments from Mr Shahenshah and Mr Ullah and a corruption risk assessment and have reviewed the potential business further US$3.0 million towards certain investigation and legal costs.
risks associated with climate change.
These reviews resulted in the Further sums have been received from certain other individuals and adoption and publication of our revised Code of Business Conduct steps are being taken to secure the return of remaining amounts.
as outlined above and a new climate change strategy.
In 2014 we also With the exception of those amounts relating to certain investigation conducted an internal audit review of the business risk management and legal costs, these funds will be returned to Oriental Energy function and have engaged KPMG as external consultants to assist Resources Limited Oriental.
management in addressing the findings of this review, and have In connection with its review of the previous transactions, outsourced the internal audit function to PwC.
As a result we are WFG made certain recommendations as to how the Company currently refining the process of reviewing and reporting risks through could improve and strengthen its internal controls.
As part of the Audit and Risk Committee and up to the Board.
the Companys implementation of improved internal compliance Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Chairmans and Chief Executives statement continued Navigating in uncertain times Driving shared responsibility In 2014, average gross and net production, excluding Barda Rash, At the beginning of the year we developed an over-arching was 47,560 and 31,819 bopd respectively as detailed on page 36, corporate responsibility strategy that was reviewed and approved falling slightly below our full year net production guidance of by the Board of Directors in March 2014.
This strategy document between 32,000 to 36,000 bopd.
Production was at the lower formed the basis for setting the 2014 corporate responsibility end of guidance, principally due to delays installing the Ebok CFB targets.
Despite challenging operating conditions we met our extension, the natural decline in production from existing wells corporate responsibility stretch target for 2014, making significant and unplanned downtime at Ebok in September 2014.
OML 26 progress across a wide range of key issues.
In particular, we achieved production was affected by the Q1 2014 declaration of Force a 30% reduction in both our Lost Time and Total Recordable Majeure by Shell, operator at the Forcados Terminal.
In Q1 2014 the frequency rates across the business.
Further details of our corporate Ogini-22 and Ogini-23 wells were successfully spudded, drilled and responsibility performance in 2014 are given on pages 60 and 61. completed while a third producer was spudded in December 2014 Strengthening our capital base and completed in February 2015.
A fourth producer, Ogini-25, was spudded in February 2015 and completed in March 2015 with Our financial results in 2014, as well as the sharp decline in drilling of a fifth producer in progress.
Elsewhere, at the Okoro market oil prices in the second half of 2014, placed very significant field, production during the period was in line with expectations, pressure on the Groups liquidity position.
With revenue for 2014 incorporating downtime earlier in the year.
of US$946 million, down 42% year-on-year, and extraordinary impairments to property, plant and equipment US$1,206 million, On an annualised basis, Group net production in 2014 was down intangible exploration and evaluation assets US$839 million and 32% due to cost recovery of the initial development costs at Ebok goodwill US$115 million, the Group recorded a loss before tax from and delays in achieving production ramp-up at Ebok, OML 26 continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2014 of and from the Barda Rash field, Kurdistan region of Iraq.
As a result, the Group had net current liabilities for the full year in 2014 was US$946 million 31 December 2013: of US$459 million as at 31 December 2014.
While the Groups cash US$1,644 million, reflecting both lower production volumes and the position was US$237 million as at 31 December 2014, its liquidity impact of lower realised oil prices during the second half of the year was impacted as a result of restricted and segregated cash balances 1H 2014: US$108 bbl, 2H 2014: US$86 bbl.
Net debt at the end in place to address operational requirements.
of 2014 was US$1,067 million 31 December 2013: US$739 million, which included cash at bank of US$237 million 31 December 2013: The Companys near term cash flow was also impacted by capital US$390 million.
Year-end cash at bank included US$80 million in expenditure incurred in late 2014 before operational changes respect of the remaining hedges of 2.85 mbbls to 31 July 2015 which had been implemented to adapt to the current lower oil price Afren sold in December.
Capital expenditure for the period was environment, as well as an inability to continue with the planned US$769 million, with US$625 million allocated to production and refinancing in the middle of 2014 due to the suspension of its former development activities and US$144 million allocated to E&E work.
As a result, the Directors commenced an urgent review of the Groups capital structure, liquidity and funding On 12 January 2015, Afren outlined its intention to review its requirements.
In connection with new costs optimisation measures strategic options in Kurdistan, including the potential divestment to improve its liquidity position, the Board engaged Alvarez & Marsal of Barda Rash, reflecting both disappointing operational results to provide services as Chief Restructuring Officer.
at the field and a significant reserves and resources downgrade following an updated Competent Persons Report CPR by RPS In light of the Groups liquidity position, the Company obtained Energy.
The movement in reserves at Barda Rash has resulted from the lenders of the US$300 million Ebok debt facility a deferral in a material impairment charge in the year of US$933 million.
of the US$50 million amortisation payment due on 31 January 2015.
In addition, an impairment charge of US$273 million has been On 4 March 2015, the Group announced that the Board had decided recognised as a result of a review of the carrying value of our PP&E at the expiration of a 30 day grace period not to pay US$15 million assets at lower commodity prices and a further US$115 million of interest which was due on 1 February 2015 under its 2016 Senior of goodwill has been written off.
Exploration write-offs in the Notes.
The Board is also currently taking advantage of a 30 day period were US$839 million.
Despite this, the Group believes that grace period not to pay US$12.8 million of interest which was due significant upside potential remains in respect of the exploration on 9 April 2015 under its 2019 Senior Notes.
As at 30 April 2015 and evaluation portfolio and is optimistic of making recoveries on Afren is in default under the terms of its 2016 Notes due to the some of the assets that have been fully impaired through either non-payment of interest and will be in default under the terms of its development or sale.
Our reserves replacement ratio, defined as the 2019 Notes on 9 May 2015.
The Company has received assurances ratio of the number of barrels of oil equivalent discovered compared from the Ad Hoc Committee of Noteholders under its 2016 Notes, with the number produced over a three-year period, fell significantly 2019 Notes and 2020 Notes Existing Notes which members hold in from 580% to 9%.
This was principally due to the elimination of aggregate approximately 50% of the total principal face amount of 2P reserves at Barda Rash and due to limited E&E success in 2014. the Existing Notes Ad Hoc Committee that the Ad Hoc Committee We did achieve a small net 2P increase in the year of approximately has no current intention to take enforcement action with respect 4 mmbbls in respect of our offshore Nigerian licence, OML 113, to the 2016 Notes or 2019 Notes held by its members as a result of following the publication of an updated CPR from AGR TRACS the failure to make payment of interest due under the 2016 Notes International Ltd. or 2019 Notes, on the basis that agreement has been reached with the Company and its key stakeholders on the terms of a consensual but conditional restructuring.
12 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance On 13 March 2015, the Group announced a preliminary agreement for If shareholder approval of the Recapitalisation is not received, the receipt of interim funding and the recapitalisation of the business.
the Ad Hoc Committee and the lenders under the Groups existing The agreement entered into by Afren together with certain Noteholders US$300 million Ebok credit facility have agreed to an alternative under its Existing Notes and a majority of the lenders under the Groups restructuring plan, whereby the economic terms of the New NY existing US$300 million Ebok credit facility, is intended to ultimately Notes will be amended, and the amendment and restatement of result in the provision of US$255US$305 million of net total funding the Existing Notes will be revised so that no new shares are issued.
before the end of July 2015 Recapitalisation.
On 30 April 2015, in In addition, the New HY Notes will include a requirement for the respect of the interim funding, the Company entered into definitive Company to initiate a sale of the Groups business by the end of agreements with certain Noteholders and issued US$212 million of 2016, which together will mean that existing shareholders would private placement notes PPN, providing US$200 million in net cash be unlikely to see any return on their current investment.
In conjunction with such agreement, the lenders under On the basis that the recapitalisation is successfully achieved as the Groups existing US$300 million Ebok credit facility agreed outlined above, the Groups financial footing and ability to continue to the deferral of the US$50 million amortisation payments due in operation would be significantly strengthened.
on 31 January 2015 and 30 April 2015 until the completion of the implementation of the Recapitalisation at which point it is expected Building for the future that the amortisation payments will be further deferred until after the Looking ahead, Afren expects full year 2015 net production to repayment of the New High Yield Notes.
The PPN will be repayable average between 23,000 32,000 bopd, with a forecast capital by April 2016 if not refinanced through the Recapitalisation.
spend of approximately US$0.4 billion, allocated principally to our existing high-margin Nigerian producing assets.
Our forward In connection with the Recapitalisation, on 30 April 2015 the guidance for 2015 reflects the impact of operating in a significantly Group entered into a conditional agreement to raise US$55 million lower oil price environment and the outcome of refinancing proposals in additional net proceeds after the repayment of the PPN from currently underway.
We have also agreed with our Partner, Oriental, the issuance of New High Yield Notes due in 2017 New HY Notes.
that they will fund their share of Capex at Ebok.
Going forward this This amount may be increased by up to US$105 million in total will result in a lower share of production following the end of all cost additional proceeds.
This would provide the net total funding recovery.
In respect of our exploration and evaluation commitments of US$255 million - US$305 million.
In addition, as part of the this year, Afren will continue to engage with host governments and Recapitalisation i 25% of the Existing Notes will be converted to Partners to manage commitments in a low oil price environment and new equity in the Company: ii the remaining 75% of the Existing discuss opportunities for strategic divestments.
Notes will be extended to mature as to US$350 million in each of December 2019 and December 2020: iii the existing Ebok credit Our revised business plan assumes a lower oil price environment facility will be extended to 2019: iv new shares will be issued for the foreseeable future and is expected to lead to year-on-year to subscribers to the New HY Notes and the PPN: and v the growth in the underlying net production base through to 2017.
Company will undertake an equity offering of up to US$75 million In addition, in line with our peers, the Group is in the process to shareholders.
The Group has also reached agreement with the of implementing a streamlining programme alongside a number lender of its Okwok OML113 facility to restructure and defer this of operational measures that are expected to lead to material facility until 2018.
This Recapitalisation will result in very substantial cost savings.
dilution for our existing shareholders, which reflects the underlying During what has been a very difficult year for all our stakeholders, financial position of the Group.
we would like to extend our gratitude to our employees and In order for the Recapitalisation to be implemented there are other contractors who have demonstrated their unwavering commitment, conditions that need to be fulfilled, including obtaining i the professionalism and loyalty to steering our business towards a approval of requisite majorities of holders of the Existing Notes in brighter, more prosperous future.
We still have significant challenges connection with a scheme of arrangement of such Existing Notes: facing the Company but we are confident that the measures we ii approval from the relevant courts in the UK and the US as to are implementing will, in time, deliver the exciting potential within such scheme of arrangement: and iii agreement from the Groups our portfolio.
The Company will also seek the approval of In 2011, we set out our three-year business targets to 2015, shareholders in general meeting to the terms of the Recapitalisation, as summarised in the table overleaf.
These have been impacted which is required in order to issue the new ordinary shares in by the extraordinary challenges that we encountered in 2014. connection with the Recapitalisation.
If shareholder approval is not Our targets to 2015 are aligned with the forward business plan received, the Recapitalisation will still proceed, but on amended and we look forward to articulating our revised targets beyond terms for the New HY Notes.
2015 following the appointment of the CEO.
There is a risk that one or more of these steps may not be completed or satisfied and the Recapitalisation may not occur.
If additional funds are not available to be drawn under the New HY Notes, and the Recapitalisation does not proceed, the Directors are of the opinion that the Group would become insolvent, absent an alternative proposal being received by the Company that is capable of being implemented.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Chairmans and Chief Executives statement continued Board changes Board composition Following the conclusion of the investigation into the unauthorised payments, which led to the dismissal of the former CEO, Osman Shahenshah, and former COO, Shahid Ullah, we commenced the search for a new CEO in October.
We are pleased to announce the appointment of Alan Linn as the new CEO for the Afren Group.
He has Executive Non-Executive Chairman Directors 35 years of international experience in the oil and gas industry and brings with him a 1 wealth of knowledge in restructuring businesses in challenging environments.
In addition, 2 the Board will be further strengthened with the appointment of new directors to broaden its expertise and an executive search firm is being retained to assist in this process: announcements will be made in due course in respect of this.
Toby Hayward has stepped down from his role as interim CEO and will resume as a Non-Executive Director.
5 In 2014, we strengthened the Board with the appointment of Iain McLaren.
Mr McLaren, Executive who now chairs the Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee, brings Directors extensive financial accounting and capital markets experience, having held senior leadership positions in both the finance and energy sectors.
His experience will be particularly valuable as Afren embarks on a period of change.
Tenure of During the year, Mr Ennio Sganzerla resigned as Non-Executive Director of Afren in order to pursue other business interests.
Mr Sganzerla served as a Director of Afren Plc for over five years Non-Executive Directors and has been a member of the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
We would like to reassure all our stakeholders that the Board fully recognises the need to rebuild a stronger Board and executive team as quickly as possible, both to restore confidence and to take Afren forward to meet the opportunities that remain across its portfolio.
610 years 01 years 1 Mr Egbert Imomoh Mr Toby Hayward 2 Executive Chairman Interim Chief Executive Officer 2 23 years Mr Darra Comyn Mr Peter Bingham Directors by gender Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Female 1 Mr John St. John Mr Patrick Obath Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 7 Male Ms Sheree Bryant Mr Iain McLaren Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed 2 April 2014.
14 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report of Corporate Accounts report the Directors governance Business target Progress in 2014 Outlook for 2015 Manage and optimise Afren continued to develop its Nigerian reserves Our revised business plan assumes a lower oil our production and base in 2014, with reservoir performance price environment for the foreseeable future and development operations continuing to perform in line with expectations.
is expected to lead to year-on-year growth in the to maximise the value underlying net production base through to 2017. of the business.
The Group was disappointed to announce a reserves write-off and a material impairment charge at Barda Rash following an updated CPR by RPS Energy.
Ensure available capital Capital expenditure for the year was In light of the current low oil price environment, is deployed in the most US$769 million, with US$625 million allocated capital expenditure for 2015 is expected to be efficient way and to suit to production and development activities approximately US$0.4 billion, allocated principally our full cycle business and US$144 million allocated to exploration to our high margin producing Nigerian assets.
Continually Following the adoption of a comprehensive We will continue to move ahead with our plans improvecorporate corporate responsibility strategy, we successfully to increase reporting on corporate responsibility responsibility moved forward on a number of key initiatives performance and have set challenging targets performance.
and managed to meet our stretch targets in for 2015. respect of our TRIR and LTIF KPIs.
Unfortunately, other corporate responsibility issues arose during the year, as detailed in the Corporate governance section.
Grow production Gross production excluding Barda Rash in 2014 We expect net production in 2015 to average year-on-year.
was 47,560 bopd whilst like-for-like net production between 23,000 32,000 bopd.
This was slightly below our takes into consideration the current low oil production guidance range of between 32,000 price environment with discretionary spending to 36,000 bopd.
The revised business plan incorporates year-on-year growth in the underlying net Production ramp-up in 2014 was impacted by production base through to 2017. operational and contractual delays at Ebok and OML 26.
Okoro performed in line with expectations.
Continue to grow Our focus in 2014 was to continue to develop our Our focus in 2015 will be to allocate capital Afrens presence in our regional and subsurface understanding across the to our highest yield Nigerian producing assets main areas of activity portfolio.
Whilst we continued to make good and to selectively target divestments farm-outs and geological plays.
progress with maturing our Nigerian and East across the portfolio.
African portfolio, we encountered technical and operational challenges with our Kurdistan assets.
Progressively convert Following a disappointing CPR update in respect Our focus in 2015 will be towards ramping up a significant portion of of the Barda Rash PSC, Kurdistan region of Iraq, production from our existing Nigerian producing our existing 2C resource net 2P reserves were eliminated and 2C resources asset base.
In addition, we realised a small net 2P increase in the year of approximately 4 mmbbls in respect of our offshore Nigerian licence, OML 113, following the publication of an updated CPR from AGR TRACS.
Discover 250 mmboe of In 2014, our exploration and appraisal campaign In the current low oil price environment our net recoverable 2P & 2C yielded mixed results.
Of note, we were pleased focus this year will be to allocate capital to reserves and resources with the results of our drilling and coring producing assets and manage our exploration from our forward operations in Madagascar which encountered light and appraisal commitments with host exploration drilling oil accumulations in two boreholes, whilst we had governments, including considering potential programme by 2015. disappointing news at the Ameena East well on opportunities for strategic divestments.
OML 115 which was spudded at year-end and was completed in January 2015.
There were no new discoveries in 2014.
Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
