CHieF exeCUTiVeS ReVieW market background The year has seen an on-going decline in food sales by the major retailers, our principal customers.
They continue to be intensely competitive and liquid milk in particular remains a key product where they are seeking to offer value to consumers.
In this environment it has been difficult to pass higher input costs onto our customers and this emphasises the importance of our own cost reduction initiatives.
Towards the end of the year most major retailers chose to reduce the price at which they sell milk to consumers.
This had the effect of further increasing the gap between these prices and those which we charge our residential customers.
We expect this to accelerate the downward trend in our residential sales.
The background on the supply side I start my review by echoing the thoughts of Richard Macdonald, is very different.
UK milk production is buoyant and dairy farmer confidence our Acting Chairman, regarding Anthony Fry, our Chairman.
We remain committed to paying fair, Everyone in Dairy Crest wishes Anthony a successful recovery.
market related prices to the dairy farmers His guidance and inspiration are missed.
The milk prices we pay our farmers increased by 8% over Summary the year ended 31 March 2014 and we continue to work with our direct suppliers The year ended 31 March 2014 was one of consolidation for Dairy to offer them a choice of milk supply Crest.
Following the transformational sale of our French spreads contracts.
These include those with prices business, St Hubert, last year we have completed our determined by formulas, which allow them to optimise their production.
We have reorganisation into one business structure and are seeing the broadly maintained our milk purchase benefit of this project in the form of greater focus on consumers prices since the year end although market and a more integrated supply chain.
This has also helped in our prices are now starting to fall.
constant drive to reduce costs.
Our largest brand, Cathedral City, Looking ahead, European milk supply is likely to increase after the abolition of continues to grow strongly.
UK production, which has been below the The rationalisation of our butter and the increase in adjusted Group profit available quota for over a decade, is spreads manufacturing onto one wellwere higher profits from selling surplus unlikely to be affected by this change.
invested site at Kirkby, Merseyside is properties, which increased by 10.5 Consumer preferences and the economics nearing completion and our plan to close million, and lower interest costs which of milk transportation make it unlikely that our factory in Crudgington is progressing.
liquid milk will be imported into the UK.
It In parallel to the continued Exceptional costs fell sharply in the is possible that some additional cheese strengthening of our existing operations year from 56.5 million in the year ended produced in Ireland, for example, may we have initiated a major project to add 31 March 2013 to 10.4 million in the be exported to the UK but other global value to the whey we produce as a year ended 31 March 2014 reflecting the markets may well be more attractive.
If by-product of cheese manufacturing.
In reduced level of restructuring across the more cheese was to be imported into the total we are investing 45 million at our business.
UK it could put downward pressure on cheese creamery at Davidstow, Cornwall Group net debt at 31 March 2014 commodity cheese prices and farmgate to allow us to manufacture demineralised was 142 million, up from 60 million at milk prices.
However, we anticipate that whey powder which we expect to boost 31 March 2013, but significantly lower our market-leading Cathedral City brand, annual profits by around 5 million from than at 31 March 2012, prior to the sale will continue to perform strongly.
We are in the process of agreeing of St Hubert, when it was 336 million.
a contract with an exclusive customer Net debt fell significantly in the second branded sales which is already well established in the half of the year.
Significant factors in the We have continued to support our four key appropriate markets.
The customer will increase from 31 March 2013 were onebrands, Cathedral City, Clover, Country also provide technical advice as the off payments resulting from the sale of Life and FRijj.
As the table shows, total project moves forward.
St Hubert to the pension scheme and sales of these brands have grown by Adjusted Group profit before tax bondholders which together totalled 49 4% this year.
Cathedral City continued increased by 31% to 65.3 million 2013: million.
As noted above, we also invested its strong performance and again 49.7 million.
Adjusted basic earnings per significantly at Kirkby and Davidstow.
It is share increased by 39% to 40.8 pence now Britains 18th largest grocery brand 2013: 29.4 pence.
Key factors behind Source: The Grocer, March 2014.
12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 brand market Dairy Crest market statistics sales growth Brand growth Market growth Cheese unchanged 12% 10% Butters, spreads, -6% -6% -4% margarine Butters, spreads, -4% -7% -4% margarine Ready to drink unchanged -4% 16% flavoured milk Total 4% 3% Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31 March 2014 v 12 months to 31 March 2013 IRI data 52 weeks to 29 March 2014 In the butters and spreads market, which Cost cutting profit growth in all three of our product is declining, Clovers market share reduced Cost reduction remains an important groups over the medium term.
However, Country Life spreadable part of our strategy.
We have made good profit growth will come from our project grew share and outperformed its major progress to improve efficiency across to add value to the whey stream at spreadable rivals.
Country Life block butter the business.
Cost reduction projects Davidstow, which is on track.
sales fell as we reduced promotions due initiated in the year have delivered annual Our net debt is comfortably within our to higher cream input costs.
benefits of 25 million, ahead of our 20 targeted range and we expect to be able Over the year as a whole FRijj sales million target.
We have also continued to reduce it further in the future as capital fell by 4%.
However, FRijj sales rebounded to benefit from work done in previous expenditure on our existing business strongly in the second half following the years.
The greatest cost savings this falls back towards depreciation and we upgrade of our production facilities in the year have arisen from the reorganisation continue to sell surplus properties.
of the business into One Dairy Crest.
reduction will also be supported by the Innovation is key to the success of Next year we expect to benefit from reduction in our annual contributions these brands.
We have an ambitious lower spreads manufacturing costs as a tothe Dairy Crest GroupPension Fund target that 10% of our sales will come result of the consolidation of our spreads from 20 million to 13 million for the next from products introduced in the last manufacturing into Kirkby as well as lower two years.
This year around 4% of our milk distribution costs.
total revenue and 7% of our key brand mark Allen Chief Executive revenue has come from such sales.
This Future prospects 21 May 2014 is a key target as we continue to move our The current trading environment is focus to a consumer driven, demand led challenging.
However, the strength of our business.
To support this we are building a key brands and our proven ability to cut new innovation centre in partnership with costs and drive efficiencies mean that we Harper Adams University, Shropshire.
remain confident that we can generate 4% 31% 8% 39% Sales growth of Increase in Increase in milk Increase in four key brands Adjusted Group price paid to Adjusted basic profit before tax our farmers earnings per share Dairy Crest Annual Report 2014 13 Strategic report
