08 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement We are pleased to report that the Group has delivered a solid performance with revenue and operating margins increasing in the majority of countries in which we trade.
Following a difficult start to the year, predominantly due to a disappointing performance in the Netherlands and continuing supply issues in the US, we experienced positive momentum in the second half with improved revenue growth of 4.0% compared to a decline of 0.7% in the first half at CER.
This creates a strong platform for the start of our new financial year.
Michael Redmond Following the divestment of the Services Maximising revenues and profit Non-Executive Chairman Segment in August 2013, which created i Driving revenue growth a pure veterinary pharmaceuticals and Our focus on defined therapeutic related products business, we have categories and extensive marketing and focused on our four key growth drivers, sales capabilities have enabled us to namely portfolio focus, pipeline delivery, deliver growth in almost all our target geographical expansion and acquisition: therapeutic sectors: we have optimised returns from our within our major sector, endocrinology, existing portfolio by achieving a higher Forthyron and Felimazole have gross margin: seen growth in the EU, whilst in the US, Vetoryl and Felimazole our pipeline has delivered a major new have increased by 24% and 19% equine product, Osphos, and we have respectively: received regulatory approval to relaunch our ophthalmic range in the US: our unique market leading brands in dermatology, Canaural and geographical expansion has continued Malaseb, continue to expand.
The with the establishment of a new current strong performance of our subsidiary in Italy, whilst planning is range of medicated shampoos will at an advanced stage to commence be further enhanced by the recent Ian Page trading in Canada: and launch of a new formulation in the US, Chief Executive Officer we have completed a strategic MiconaHex Triz: acquisition in the US, which has Cardisure, our cardiovascular product, both increased our critical mass and the only branded, differentiated bolstered our product portfolio.
pimobendan generic within the EU, has Portfolio Focus delivered exceptional growth of 32% Our aim is to maximise revenue and We have focused on across all our key European markets: profits from our existing portfolio through our unique anaesthetic and analgesic our four key growth a clear focus and a strong market product, Comfortan, is highly rated drivers, namely portfolio position in eight therapeutic sectors: by veterinarians and has grown by dermatology, ophthalmology, equine focus, pipeline delivery, 40%.
By offering a comprehensive medicine, anaesthesia and analgesia, range of critical care products, we are geographical expansion endocrinology, cardiovascular disease, successfully retaining market share food producing animal antimicrobials and and acquisition.
despite strong competition: and pet diets.
Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 09 We achieved a significant milestone in the year with the approval of a major new equine product, branded Osphos within ophthalmology, Fucithalmic Vet iii Positioning Dechra as a trusted This anticipated decline was due to a remains the leading first line treatment partner to veterinarians very competitive environment and a for eye infections.
We are also pleased We provide solutions that add value to global focus on antimicrobial reduction.
to report that we have successfully veterinarians by supporting them in their The Netherlands has seen the largest re-launched Vetropolycin and daily clinical work and keeping them decline and overall is our only European Vetropolycin HC within the US market abreast of developments in our key market not to have shown total growth following the resolution of long term therapeutic sectors.
As previously reported, supply issues.
Dutch veterinarians have reduced We have updated the Dechra Academy antibiotic usage by over 50% in the last Our success is driven by our ability to online tool, a well respected platform three years due to government pressure.
offer unique and specialised products that can be accessed by all veterinarians that address veterinarians requirements.
and provides certified Continuous Despite the recognised benefits of some This, in turn, is supported by clear Professional Development in a number of our water soluble products, we believe branding and marketing messages, of our therapeutic focus areas.
We that the Group has further exposure to the examples of which can be found on have also conducted over 165 evening decline in antimicrobials, predominantly in page 29. meetings in the US, presenting Germany where we have a strong market endocrinology seminars with an average position.
In the majority of other markets ii Increasing profits through our own of 35 veterinarians attending each in which we trade, we have low market distribution session.
This demonstrates our ability to shares and we anticipate that we should We have brought in-house a number support veterinarians in improving their be able to compensate for any decline in of products that were acquired through understanding of our areas of therapeutic the market by increasing our volumes.
Eurovet, which were historically marketed expertise.
through distribution partners, thereby Pipeline Delivery enabling the Group to retain the full Food Producing Animal Antimicrobials Our aim is to deliver the ongoing margin and enhance sales focus.
Our strategic intent is to build critical development projects and ensure we Contracts with the previous partners mass over the medium to long term: continuously refill the pipeline in order to ended in December 2013, allowing us to however, within the financial year, sales in sustain the flow of new products.
market Forthyron in France and Sweden, this sector declined by 7.3% at CER.
and Atipam and Sedator in the Nordics from January 2014.
To learn more about Osphos read the case study on page 58. www.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 10 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Delivering the existing pipeline our financial year in June 2014.
They We are of course in the early phases of We achieved a significant milestone in were historically sold by the Group these programmes but these new projects April 2014 with the approval in the US up until January 2010 and achieved increase the depth of our pipeline.
and UK of a major new equine product, historic peak sales of US$2.2 million Additional potential candidates are still branded Osphos.
We also submitted per annum.
However, manufacturing being assessed and we expect further our EU dossier in July 2014 having supply issues with a third party progress next year.
completed the studies to establish a contractor resulted in the product maximum residue limit for the product.
Geographical Expansion Osphos clodronate injection is used We aim to expand geographically through Finally, to support our global expansion for the control of the clinical signs a strategy addressing short, medium strategy, registrations into new subsidiary associated with navicular syndrome and long term opportunities.
In the short territories were also achieved, for example: in horses.
Navicular syndrome occurs term we are opening subsidiaries where in approximately 6% of horses and Felimazole Tablets in South Korea in we have existing critical mass.
For the causes pain and lameness in the October 2013: medium to long term we are developing forelimbs.
Osphos is applied as an our plans to build a presence in new Felimazole Tablets 1.25mg in Canada intramuscular injection by the veterinarian geographies where there is a recognised in September 2013: and and demonstrates measurable clinical market opportunity.
Sedator and Atipam in Israel in improvement.
The start of trading in Italy on 1 March Following the successful registrations 2014 represented a major milestone for Pipeline Progress Update reported last year, we have introduced Dechra as it is the first major territory we The following progress has been made the following products: have entered as a greenfield start-up since on our pipeline products: the US in 2004.
The financial justification Buprenodale Multidose Injection dossiers have been submitted for both for setting up our own subsidiary is clear: launched in 16 European countries the US and EU for a new novel canine the value of the margins retained by in October 2013.
Buprenodale is a endocrinology product following the selling our own products exceeds the generic Buprenorphine injection which completion of a successful clinical trial: incremental infrastructure costs, therefore complements our analgesics portfolio: delivering additional profit to the bottom a pivotal clinical trial is under way for a and line.
We appointed an experienced canine endocrine opportunity: Felimazole Tablets 1.25mg launched country manager who led the process characterisation studies are ongoing in 12 European countries in to establish the office and recruited a for canine dermatological and canine September 2013.
Felimazole is our skilled team based in Turin.
Distribution ophthalmology products: leading endocrinology treatment for agreements with our main Italian hyperthyroidism in cats.
The 1.25mg clinical trials for a feline endocrinology distributors were terminated, with our dosage strength provides flexibility on drug were suspended during the contractual obligations ending in February dosing options and was introduced to third quarter of our financial year due 2014.
Since the start of trading under our differentiate our product from recent to concerns over the formulation.
own Dechra brand, sales have been in line generic competition.
A revised formulation is now being with our expectations.
assessed for suitability to recommence Progress in our US pipeline is important We are following a similar process the trial: to continue to deliver organic growth: in Canada with the appointment of a number of generic and range a country manager who has set up MiconaHex Triz was formulated and extension dossiers have been an office facility in Montreal.
We have launched as a shampoo, topical spray submitted within the EU and are two major distributors in Canada: our and wet wipes to complement our currently under review: and contractual obligations with one of dermatological range and to compete Osphos has been submitted in them will terminate in December 2014, with the market leading brand whose Australia and Canada.
therefore, trading will commence in patents have recently expired: and January 2015.
Refilling the pipeline Vetropolycin and Vetropolycin HC We are focused on continuously have been successfully transferred We have identified other countries and identifying and evaluating new ideas into a new manufacturing site with the conducted thorough market reviews to and we have screened several new necessary variations to the licenses ascertain the feasibility of future greenfield opportunities within the period.
As a completed and approved by the start-ups.
We are currently preparing result we have started new development FDA.
These ophthalmic products are detailed financial plans with the intention projects as shown on page 25. unique in being the only veterinary of trading in another new territory during approved products within their sector the 2016 calendar year.
and were relaunched at the end of Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 11 Our Export department has focused million.
The business has also developed Strategic Enablers their commercial efforts on a number of a new Levothyroxine product which is Manufacturing key territories.
The Regulatory team has in the final phase of development.
We There have been notable developments provided product registration support.
paid a milestone of US$1.5 million for in our manufacturing capabilities Our objective is to obtain enough product this product which will be launched in the throughout the year.
With a focus on registrations to build a critical mass first half of our new financial year ending continuous improvement and efficiency to support our subsidiary expansion June 2015.
This product will strengthen gains, significant investments have strategy in future years.
To accelerate this Dechras endocrinology therapeutic been made in the liquids, creams and process additional regulatory support is sector and contains the same active ointments suite, tablet compression being recruited.
principal ingredient as one of our leading machines and the encapsulation European market brands.
You can read production line.
This investment is Acquisition more details on PSPC in the case study important as we work towards one of our We aim to identify and complete on page 61. strategic objectives for manufacturing: acquisitions that will increase the extension of our FDA compliance into Dechras value and improve returns to We are evaluating selective acquisition new dosage forms.
The principal selection criteria are businesses that: The application to the FDA for the In May 2014 we announced the approval of a new canine endocrinology acquisition of the trade and assets have their own intellectual property: product has triggered the FDA inspection of PSPC Inc. for a consideration of can introduce new technologies, or of our sterile injectables facility at Skipton US$8.5 million.
In addition to the initial complementary product ranges: or where the product will be manufactured.
consideration Dechra will pay royalties would provide entry into new A significant amount of resource and effort on total net sales of 10.0%, which will geographies.
has been put into ensuring that our facility increase by 2.5% once annualised sales and procedures will meet the standards exceed US$7.5 million with a further We continue to have a dialogue with a required.
increase should sales exceed US$12.5 number of businesses: however, recent million.
Subsequent to the acquisition We have also completed the transfer of transactions by big pharma in the animal of the trade and assets, in June 2014 Cardisure and Forthyron to our Skipton health sector have created unreasonably we acquired PSPCs facility for a further facility.
These key Companion Animal high expectations.
Where acquisition is US$3.0 million.
PSPCs principal product, Products, which came into the Group not possible, we are pursuing strategic Phycox, is a nutraceutical with historic through the Eurovet acquisition, were partnerships.
sales of approximately US$4.5 million previously outsourced.
Phycox, a novel and products in-house will improve margins patented product, competes in the US and provide us with greater flexibility and veterinary joint healthcare supplement control of production.
market, a sector estimated at US$55.0 www.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A 12 Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Logistics We anticipate the transfer will be website and the Dechra Academy.
The Following a 2 million investment, completed by the end of December Dechra Veterinary Products website our new enlarged central European 2014, at which time we intend to rehas been completely rewritten utilising distribution centre in Uldum, Denmark position and re-market this important the latest software capabilities with an was opened on 26 November 2013.
optimised user interface pulling data from new facility has more than doubled our a newly established single database of Information Technology 2 scale to 7,400 m and has tripled our all the Groups products technical and Further progress has been made pallet handling capacity to 10,500.
Furthermore, the with the Oracle ERP implementation.
facility: Dechra Academy, with online learning Our manufacturing facility in Bladel courses for our veterinary customers, has creates a logistics hub that provides successfully went live on the platform been redeveloped to enhance its content for all our current and medium term in November 2013.
After a full review and functionality.
distribution requirements: of the project plan to ensure that the co. uk, was launched in the UK in Oracle implementation would support our almost entirely eliminates third party July 2014 and will be translated and strategic objectives, we are now focusing storage and handling costs: and rolled out across all our other trading on the next phase which includes the improves logistics efficiency.
subsidiaries throughout the remainder of Group financial consolidation and the the 2014 calendar year.
In the second half of the financial year set-up of our European subsidiaries.
we started an exercise to transfer our People Within the year we have successfully Specific pet diets to a new external third Senior Executive Team standardised all critical non ERP software party manufacturing partner to improve Following the disposal of the Services and hardware use across the Group, overall delivery efficiency and product Segment a new Senior Executive Team thereby reducing costs and improving quality.
Following an extensive search SET was established.
We have also improved and due diligence, we identified a new objective of the SET is to develop and communication capabilities by completing supplier and started to transfer products implement the Groups strategy.
The the roll out of a new secure private network into the new manufacturer.
To date we team comprises the Executive Directors across the majority of the business units.
have transferred over 50% of our volume along with the Company Secretary, requirements and are already seeing an Given the increasing importance of US and Manufacturing Managing improvement in quality, palatability and digital technologies, we have worked to Directors and the heads of Product on time delivery.
update our customer-facing interfaces Development and Regulatory Affairs, such as the Dechra Veterinary Products HR and IT.
We are excited about the imminent launch of Osphos and by the potential growth opportunities for our recent acquisition PSPC Inc. Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2014 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A Strategic Report Our Business and Strategy 13 Management and Staff 17 years with the business.
Ed has Looking ahead, we are confident that the A new Group HR Director, Katy Clough, entered into a Consultancy Agreement execution of our strategy will continue to joined us at the end of April 2014. with the Company to work on specific deliver growth.
We have a strong balance Working closely with senior managers and projects as and when required.
We would sheet which allows us to make strategic the HR team, she has developed a people like to express our thanks to both Neil investments and deliver new products plan that supports our strategic aims and and Ed for the huge contributions they from our pipeline.
continues to build on the strong Values have made to Dechra.
We are excited about the imminent embedded across the Group.
Dechra Dividend launch of Osphos and by the potential now employs 775 people in over 14 The Board is proposing a final dividend growth opportunities for our recent countries and we expect the headcount of 10.65 pence per share 2013: 9.66 acquisition PSPC Inc.
These factors, to increase during the next financial pence.
Added to the interim dividend together with revenue and margin growth year.
Our diverse and talented workforce of 4.75 pence per share, this brings the from geographical expansion in Italy and has been key to our success and we total dividend per share for the financial Canada, and the delivery of further new will continue to leverage this advantage year ended June 2014 to 15.40 pence, products, give the Board confidence in through succession planning and ongoing representing 10% growth over the the Groups future prospects.
development programmes throughout the previous year.
The Strategic Report has been approved Subject to shareholder approval at the by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Board Changes Annual General Meeting to be held on At the Companys Annual General 24 October 2014, the final dividend Michael Redmond Meeting in October 2013 Neil Warner will be paid on 21 November 2014 to Non-Executive Chairman stepped down as Senior Independent shareholders on the Register at 8 September 2014 Non-Executive Director and Chairman 7 November 2014.
The shares will become of the Audit Committee.
Upon his ex-dividend on 6 November 2014. retirement, Ishbel Macpherson was Ian Page appointed as Senior Independent Prospects Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director and Julian Heslop Current trading is in line with 8 September 2014 stepped into Neils role as Chairman of management expectations and is the Audit Committee.
In January 2014 consistent, at constant exchange rates, Ed Torr stepped down as an Executive with the growth seen in the second half Director from the main Board following of our prior financial year.
com Stock code: DPH 23481.04 9 September 2014 5:04 PM Design A
