12 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Top-line growth was affected by a slowdown in the emerging markets and currency weakness.
Despite this, our increased focus on cost ensured we delivered our three-year margin expansion goal of 200 basis points.
Given the attractiveness of our sector, our clear strategy, our operational focus CHIEF EXECUTIVES and the demographic and consumer trends ahead of us, I have no doubt that we can STATEMENT: I AM CONFIDENT achieve our ambition to become one of the best performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies in the world.
THAT WE HAVE THE STRATEGY Results TO DELIVER, AND WILL DRIVE In fiscal 2014 top-line growth was affected by a slowdown in the emerging markets and currency weakness.
our increased focus on cost ensured we delivered our three-year operating margin expansion goal of 200 basis points.
Performance was also impacted by some specific events, such as the anti extravagance I am honoured to be Chief Executive of measures in China.
Our decision in Venezuela Diageo: a global leader with outstanding to convert our results at an exchange rate brands, which have been the choice of which some have judged conservative, but consumers across many generations.
which I feel is appropriate, has reduced the Today, Diageo is in good health, with high risk that currency volatility will have on our and improving margins and a robust balance performance in that country.
Our business is balanced across North America remains the engine of our geographies and we continue to build our business, accounting for about a third of our global footprint accessing long term growth net sales and 45% of our operating profit.
While some of these economies This year we again delivered solid growth have been challenging, we have the and significant margin improvement.
experience of managing volatility and Our Western Europe business reported we remain confident in the long term stronger performance, as we expected.
consumer trends, as well as our ability Western Europe is still challenging but there has to grow market share.
been some recovery and the integrated model This year we created a framework to put in place in 2011 is proving effective.
Ivan Menezes, guide delivery of our strategy called our In Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey Chief Executive Performance Ambition.
The organisation we posted modest growth, despite facing is now focused on six performance drivers: challenges in beer in Nigeria and following premium core brands: reserve: innovation: the imposition of duty on Senator keg route to consumer: cost: and talent.
Performance was up in Turkey also restructured our business.
The organisation following stabilisation of the raki category we take into the next financial year is more and continued growth of our scotch brands.
agile and accountability lies directly in our 21 markets, making the link between our markets and global functions clearer.
The benefits of this will come through in the coming years.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Investing for growth Our people One of the special things about Diageo is 2014 net sales by category % Our investment in the long term supply our people and the culture that we have of premium core spirits continues, with 7% investment in our operations in the created.
In simplifying the organisation we 1% 3% 28% United States and Scotland during the year, have freed our people up to act like owners 4% 5% and be bold in execution, which is changing enabling our business to be well positioned behaviours across the organisation, and to capture growth from the increase in future 6% demand, particularly in bourbon and scotch.
encouraging people to be even more 6% By acquiring an additional 26% of United commercially minded.
We attract the best talent in our industry Spirits Limited USL on 2 July 2014, taking 7% 20% and we are committed to creating the best our shareholding to a majority holding of 13% 54.78%, we have taken a leadership position conditions for people to thrive and succeed.
in India which will provide a transformational To my 28,000 colleagues around the world Scotch Whisk e y Liqueur Tequila Beer Ready to drink Wine Other I would like to take the opportunity to thank platform for growth in this very attractive Vodka Rum Gin them for their commitment and contribution spirits market.
We will consolidate USL from the start of fiscal 2015, and with our during the year.
Latin America and Caribbean delivered combined strength, the Indian market will a good performance despite currency Outlook become one of Diageos largest markets Finally, to you, our shareholders, as well as fluctuations, and a slowdown in consumption next year and a major contributor to our our wide range of stakeholders, it has been has impacted wholesalers and distributors growth ambitions.
a privilege to lead Diageo during the past operating in the free trade area.
In a challenging operating environment, local brands performed Trust and respect year.
I am confident that we have the strategy to deliver, and we will drive efficient growth.
well in Venezuela, and Brazil and Colombia We manage the Companys most material The future growth drivers for our industry, also delivered a solid performance.
social and environmental impacts with a goal of creating shared value for both our and the aspirational nature of our brands, Performance in Asia Pacific reflected the introduction of anti extravagance measures business and our diverse stakeholders as consumers in the emerging markets realise increasing disposable income, are in China and the weaker trading environment around the world.
Core to this is a priority undiminished.
The opportunity for Diageo in South East Asia.
To counter the effects of around alcohol in society.
Im proud of the approach we have taken as an industry, over to grasp its unfulfilled potential is an the government anti extravagance campaign in China we rolled out innovations in Shui many years, to promote responsibility and exciting one.
Jing Fang and broadened the range of price to help tackle alcohol misuse, but we still have work to do.
Making a tangible points away from dependence on super difference in alcohol-related harm is not only premium baijiu.
Korea, Japan, Middle East, Taiwan and India delivered good growth.
smart business, it is the right thing to do and we will continue to enlist partners to help us Focusing on delivery build insights and scale.
In addition to this, Ivan Menezes, For our premium core brands this has been framing our behaviours with strong codes of Chief Executive a year of progress.
Improving brand equities governance and ethics, developing talent and recruiting the next generation of and skills in local communities and ensuring consumers through world class marketing the long term sustainability of resources, are will pay dividends in the long term.
We have critical for businesses operating at scale delivered great launches in innovation, across multiple markets, particularly in for example, Captain Morgan White in the emerging economies.
Being a force for good United States and Jebel Gold in East Africa.
is essential for delivering commercial and I am also excited by the opportunity we have financial benefits, retaining and attracting with our single grain whisky, Haig Club, our the best people and being true partners in business partnership with David Beckham.
the communities in which we operate.
Reserve has been an area of focus for us and we are now the leader in super and ultra premium spirits.
We continue to roll out our route to consumer programme, and improvement here will be as big a driver of growth as innovation.
Our focus on costs is yielding real results, as demonstrated in the delivery of our margin goal.
Talent remains central to our growth plans, and is critical for each market.
