Overview Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 07 Chief Executives overview Focused on our core business and delivering on our key objectives Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Overview People and values 2014 has been another eventful year for Our staff continue to support the business the Group.
Investment in funeral acquisitions and the families we have the privilege of has continued apace and we have reset our caring for in whatever way their role requires.
Outstanding service capital structure, releasing further cash to Their performance helps to build the reputation delivery remains at shareholders and reducing the combined of the Group which in turn leads to its future the very heart of annual cash cost of servicing the principal success and I remain grateful for their and interest of our debt by approximately commitment.
I am delighted that once again our business and 7million.
Alongside these corporate activities, they have been able to share in the Groups long-term focus.
our core business has performed strongly success and have received a discretionary whilst maintaining outstanding levels of bonus equivalent to 1,100 for each full client service.
The total cost was 2.7 million.
% 99.2 Our performance in 2014 All three operating divisions have contributed Outstanding service delivery remains at the 99.2 per cent of families to the success of the business in the year.
heart of our business and long-term focus said that Dignity met We continue to follow our long standing 2014 was underpinned by another year of or exceeded their strategy and have seen revenues and operating outstanding client service results, the detail expectations.
profit grow within our core business.
Although of which is included later in the Annual Report.
we do not separately disclose the operating We have committed staff who follow a simple, Performance in 2014 performance of the Yew Holdings Limited consistent strategy.
We run the business in acquisition made in 2013, it has performed ways that make economic sense for all our Strong revenue growth.
very strongly and exceeded our expectations.
stakeholders in both the short-term and the Strong cost control.
long-term, never losing sight of the fact that Acquisitions a significant proportion of our business occurs Core portfolio continues Whilst 2013 was a busy year because of as a result of recommendation, reputation to deliver growth.
a single large acquisition, 2014 was a year and previous experience.
Acquisitions add of many smaller acquisitions.
investment of 24.7 million was made to A positive outlook Return of Cash to acquire 30 funeral locations.
Each acquisition The business remains well placed for the shareholders.
met our strict criteria of being well established, future.
Customer satisfaction remains very successful businesses in their own right prior high: our core portfolio is performing well to acquisition and I am delighted that they with costs under control: we are achieving good have joined the Group.
pre-arranged funeral plan sales: our pipeline of corporate development activity looks Continued investment across our strong: and our capital structure is once again core business appropriately leveraged.
Whilst the rate of We continue to invest significant amounts growth of operating profit will inevitably slow of capital and resource in the core business.
as the Group continues to get bigger, we In 2014, 5.4 million was invested in new continue to believe that a 10 per cent per specialist vehicles, with a further 11.7 million annum increase in EPS remains a suitable invested in our properties and infrastructure.
target for the business over the medium-term.
This helps to support our employees as they strive to deliver the best service they can.
Links See Marketoverview:p. 08 and p. 09 See Our strategy and business model: p. 10 and p. 11 See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 21
