12 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Another year of strong underlying Year in review growth with an improving acquisition environment INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH PROGRAMME HAS ESTABLISHED Bruce Thompson FIRMFOUNDATION Chief Executive Officer FORGROWTH STRONG CONSUMABLE REVENUES: 9% UNDERLYING GROWTH GOOD PROGRESS IN AFTERMARKET AND INDUSTRIAL OEMS: 7% UNDERLYING GROWTH GOOD DEMAND ACROSS MARKET SECTORS: 8% UNDERLYING GROWTH MORE POSITIVE ACQUISITION ENVIRONMENT WITH IMPROVED PIPELINE REPORTED RESULTS HELD BACK BY TRANSLATIONAL IMPACT OF STRONG UKSTERLING Underlying revenue growth Strong performance across all three 8% Sectors GROUP LIFE SCIENCES SEALS CONTROLS ACQUISITIONS GROUP DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 13 In 2014, the Group has delivered underlying margins which reflect the focus Adjusted operating margin revenue growth of 8% after adjusting for on specialised segments, strongly acquisitions and currency effects with a differentiated products and customer strong performance across all three Sectors.
focused solutions, combined with Adjusted operating margins remained efficiently run operations.
This year, robust at 18.5% of revenue.
In an improving adjusted operating margins were 18.5% 18.5% environment for acquisitions, 16.5m was which is comfortably within the five year invested in acquisitions which contributed average range of 1819%.
Gross margins 15.4m to revenues this year.
This addition in the Groups Healthcare businesses to revenues was offset by the adverse came under increasing pressure during translation effect of the stronger UK sterling the year, from the transactional currency which reduced revenues by 17.7m.
Free effects of the strong depreciation of the cash flow increased by 20% to 37.8m and form a critical part of our Sector growth Canadian and Australian dollars.
However, return on adjusted trading capital employed strategies and are designed to generate a the impact on Group operating margins ROATCE was maintained at 25.8%.
pre-tax return on investment of at least 20% was limited by tight control of operating and hence support our Group objective of costs in the Healthcare businesses.
More Business model and growth strategy consistently exceeding 20% ROATCE.
broadly, the Groups Investment for Growth The Groups strategy is designed to programme, started in 2012 and now generate strong, double-digit growth Performance against objectives and KPIs nearing completion, has started to deliver in earnings and shareholder value over The Groups principal corporate objectives the benefits we had expected.
As revenues the business cycle, by building larger, relate to growth in adjusted earnings per have increased, operational leverage has broader-based businesses in the three share EPS and total shareholder return reduced operating costs as a percentage of Group Sectors of Life Sciences, Seals TSR.
Growth in the year in adjusted EPS revenue and these benefits have offset the and Controls.
has been 4% and growth in TSR has been impact of acquisitions joining the Group 8%.
Over a five year period, compound with lower initial operating margins.
Our businesses target GDP plus levels growth rates for adjusted EPS and TSR have of organic revenue growth over the been 20% p. a. and 36% p. a. respectively.
To achieve the Groups objective of strong business cycle.
Stable and resilient revenue double-digit growth, acquisition spend at growth is achieved through our focus on Underpinning the principal corporate the level of ca.
The essential products and services funded objectives are a set of further objectives, level of spend this year of 16.5m is below by customers operating rather than with related key performance indicators this target level but is close to the five year capital budgets and supplied across a KPIs which are used to measure average of ca.
16m p. a. and is well ahead range of specialised industry segments.
performance at the Group level, but of the prior year spend of only 2m.
After By supplying essential solutions, not also to drill down through the operating the financial year end in early October just products, we build strong long term businesses.
The first of these next level 2014, a further acquisition was completed relationships with our customers and objectives is to generate stable GDP plus of 80% of Technopath Distribution TPD suppliers, which support sustainable and levels of underlying revenue growth over and this has taken the acquisition spend to attractive margins.
Finally we encourage an the business cycle.
entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through our decentralised management This year, after adjusting for translational The Group continues to focus strongly structure and these essential values ensure currency effects and acquisitions, the onfree cash flow, which funds the growth that decisions are made close to the Group increased revenues by 8% on an strategy and allows the Company to provide customer and that the businesses are agile underlying basis, with strong performance healthy dividends to shareholders.
In 2014, and responsive to changes in the market across all three Sectors.
Life Sciences free cash flow was 37.8m, compared and the competitive environment.
benefited from strong consumable with a five year average of 31m p. a. and revenues across the businesses, offsetting was equivalent to a conversion rate of Overall growth is accelerated from the weaker capital equipment and service over 90% of adjusted after tax earnings.
underlying GDP plus levels to the corporate revenues and delivered 9% underlying Now that the Investment for Growth target of strong, double-digit growth, revenue growth.
In Seals, underlying programme is approaching completion, through carefully selected, value-enhancing revenues grew by 7%, reflecting a more capital expenditure is trending back to acquisitions which fit the business model favourable performance in the Aftermarket more normal levels and the principal and offer entry into new strategic markets.
businesses and continuing good growth determinant of free cash flow conversion Acquisitions are not made just to add in the Industrial OEM businesses.
Controls revenue and profit, but rather to bring into returned to growth this year with good Free cash flow in the year the Group successful businesses which have demand across its market sectors and was 37.8m, a conversion growth potential, capable management particularly strong performances from the and a good track record of profitable Civil Aerospace, Motorsport and Energy rate of over 90% growth and cash generation.
As part of our markets: underlying revenue growth of Acquire, Build, Grow strategy, we invest in 8%was achieved.
the businesses post acquisition to build a firm foundation to allow them to move to The objective for adjusted operating a new level of growth.
These acquisitions margins is to maintain stable attractive 14 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued is now the effective management of In Seals, the Group acquired 80% of Kentek, ROATCE working capital.
The KPI used to measure a specialised filter distributor which adds a and monitor this performance is working new product line and extends the reach of capital as a percentage of revenue: in 2014 the Seals activities into the new markets of this increased to 17.2% compared with both Finland, Russia and the Baltic States.
During the target and the five year average level the year, two smaller acquisitions were 25.8% of 1617%.
completed in the UK, AB Seals and Ramsay Services, which will be managed by FPE ROATCE is the final indicator of the Seals and M Seals respectively.
RT Dygert overall performance of the Group also acquired the remaining 49% in the HPS During the year, a number of acquisitions and very importantly of its success in Industrial OEM seal business in Seattle.
have been completed which are natural creatingvalue for shareholders.
ROATCE extensions of the Groups existing is measured as the pre-tax return on total In Controls, the fastener business was businesses and which have extended the Group investment excluding net cash, strengthened through the acquisition scope of the businesses into new products, but including all goodwill and acquired ofSFC, a UK fastener distributor which market segments and geographies.
ROATCE has exceeded has a strong fit with Clarendon and brings the 20% target in each of the last five years specialist technical and design skills as well In Life Sciences, DHG extended its and this year was 25.8%.
as added value assembly expertise.
During business in Australia with the acquisition the year, Filcon also acquired the goodwill of Chemzyme, which has now been Acquisitions and assets of Sacee, a supplier of specialist integrated into DHGs principal operations Acquisitions are an integral part of the connectors to the Satellite sector in France: in Melbourne.
During the year DHG also Groups strategy, designed to accelerate Sacees operations have been integrated acquired the remaining 20% minority growth and to facilitate entry into related into Filcon in Munich.
shareholdings in DSL and shortly after strategic markets.
Despite sustained the year end, acquired 80% of TPD, an and increasing resources focused on With an improving acquisition environment, established supplier to the Biotechnology, identifying and completing value-enhancing a good pipeline of opportunities and Clinical Laboratory and Medical markets acquisitions, acquisition spend does ebb and additional corporate development resources in Ireland and the UK.
The acquisition of flow over time.
The acquisition environment in place, prospects for acquisition activity in TPD represents an important first step in has improved this year after a period when 2015 are encouraging.
extending the scope of DHGs business the uncertainty over future economic into the markets of Ireland and the UK, as prospects had made vendors very cautious, well as adding important new products resulting in lengthening transaction and suppliers.
Acquisition spend 16.5m Life Sciences Chemzyme, DSL 20% Seals Kentek 80%, Ramsay, AB Seals, HPS 49% 31.6m Controls SFC, Sacee 28.2m 22.3m 12.2m 11.0m 8.0m 7.9m 2.2m 0.3m 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 15 Life Sciences Gross margins in the Healthcare There remain significant opportunities for % of Group revenue businesseswere also significantly DHG in Canada to increase its share in impactedon a transactional basis by the its core specialised segments of Clinical strong depreciation of the Canadian and Diagnostics, Electrosurgery, MI Surgery Australian dollars against the US dollar and GI Endoscopy with new products and and the Euro.
These currency effects were suppliers.
DHG is also actively seeking to 30% partly mitigated by an increased proportion extend its business, either organically or by of higher margin consumable product acquisition, into other specialised medical revenues this year, by price concessions disciplines where its business model can 2014 2013 negotiated with suppliers and by tight be deployed successfully.
There Revenue 91.4m 93.2m were also benefits starting to accrue In Australia, BGS and DSL have grown Adjusted operating from prior year investments and adjusted revenues strongly and have now been profit 19.7m 20.9m operating margins decreased by only brought together under a newly formed 80bpsto 21.6%.
leadership group and with operations and Adjusted operating back office systems consolidated into a margin 21.6% 22.4% Free cash flow increased by 6% to 14.9m, single facility in Melbourne.
Now that DHG Free cash flow 14.9m 14.1m reflecting a combination of lower capital in Australia has established a firm base with expenditure and tax payments, offset in part sufficient critical mass, it is now looking for by investment in higher working capital.
further opportunities to grow by adding Underlying Sector revenue growth bolt-on acquisitions.
During the year, of 9% Strategy development DHG acquired the assets and goodwill of The DHG group of Healthcare businesses Chemzyme, a small distributor supplying In DHG Canada, strong consumable account for ca.
80% of Life Sciences products to the sterilising departments in revenues offset weaker capital revenues.
The DHG business model is to hospitals across Australia and New Zealand.
equipment and service revenues build strong market positions in growing Chemzyme has been integrated into the niche healthcare markets.
Products are Melbourne operations and has extended ERP project well advanced sourced from high quality medical device the scope of the DHG business in Australia Somagen completed, Vantage in manufacturers under the terms of long with a supplier which also is a key supplier process and AMT to follow in 2015 term exclusive distribution agreements.
DHG also during the Fullservice solutions are provided by year acquired the remaining 20% minority DHG Australia building critical highly qualified technical sales and shareholdings in DSL.
mass under single leadership and productapplication staff, working closely with consolidated operations: with surgeons, operating room nurses and Shortly after the year end, DHG acquired Chemzyme acquired and integrated laboratory technologists.
A large proportion 80% of TPD, an established supplier to the of revenues ca.
70% are secured under Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and Acquisition of TPD after year end multi-year customer contracts.
Medical markets in Ireland and the UK.
The extends DHG into Ireland and the UK acquisition of TPD represents an important and adds new products and suppliers In Canada, the three principal businesses first step in extending the scope of DHGs made good progress during the year business into the markets of Ireland and Strong growth in Environmental in expanding the growth potential of the UK as well as adding important new businesses with stable operating their businesses with new products and products and suppliers.
Once DHG has margins new suppliers.
Somagen revenues were firmly established its position in these new boosted by the supply of new testing kits markets, opportunities will be explored in used in the roll-out of colorectal cancer further new geographic territories.
screening programmes across three Performance in the year Provinces and made good progress with The a1-group of Environmental businesses Reported revenues of the Life Sciences new best-in-class products in HbA1c accounts for ca.
20% of Sector revenues businesses decreased by 2% because of diabetes testing and Autoimmunity.
AMT and supplies a range of products used in the translational currency impact from continued to increase revenues in its new Environmental testing and Health & Safety the significant weakening in the Canadian minimally invasive MI Surgery division, applications.
The a1-group has been and Australian dollars relative to UK sterling.
consolidating its position in the supply successful in recent years by maintaining On a constant currency basis, underlying of specialised surgical instruments used a sharp focus on attractive niche market revenues increased by 9%.
Similarly on in laparoscopic and other MI Surgery segments and this year has delivered a reported basis, adjusted operating procedures.
Vantage launched its new strong growth with stable operating profit decreased by 6% in UK sterling range of endoscopes offering significant margins.
While maintaining its focus, the terms, but increased by 8% on a constant benefits in terms of image quality and a1-group is also looking for carefully currency basis.
selected bolt-on acquisitions to introduce new growth opportunities.
16 DIPLOMA PLC Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued Seals Performance in the year shop customers for hard-to-find and % of Group revenue The Seals businesses increased revenues by outsized seals on a 24 hour basis.
13%, which included part year contributions from Kentek, acquired in January 2014, Outside North America, the Group and two smaller bolt-on acquisitions in continues to target an increased global the UK.
After adjusting for the additional footprint for Aftermarket, particularly 39% contribution from these acquisitions and in Europe and Asia Pacific.
During the for the impact from currency translation, year, plans to create a more substantial, underlying revenues increased by 7%.
The unified European Aftermarket Seals group 2014 2013 acquisition of Kentek and the continued continued to take shape, centred on FPE development of the FPE Seals and M Seals Seals and with operations in the UK and Revenue 119.8m 106.1m businesses, through organic growth and the Netherlands.
FPE Seals added AB Seals Adjusted operating bolt-on acquisitions, have increased the as a bolt-on to its operations in the UK, profit 21.7m 19.5m European regions share of total Seals strengthening coverage in the important revenues to ca.
The Group also acquired Adjusted operating 80% of Kentek, a specialised distributor of margin 18.1% 18.4% Across the Seals businesses, gross margins filters and related products, used in heavy Free cash flow 16.4m 15.9m continued to be resilient, underpinned by mobile machinery and industrial equipment essential product availability and added applications.
Kentek extends the reach of value technical service.
Operating margins the Seals activities into the new markets of Underlying Sector revenue growth in the HFPG and FPE Seals businesses Finland, Russia and the Baltic States, as well of 7% improved as they benefited from prior as adding filters to the Groups product line.
year investment in people, facilities and Good growth in HFPG Aftermarket equipment.
However, with Kentek joining The Industrial OEM businesses account Seals business in North America the Group with lower initial operating for ca.
40% of Seals revenues and supply despite disruption from severe margins, adjusted operating margins seals, O-rings and custom moulded winter weather reduced by 30bps to 18.1%.
and machined parts used in a range of specialised industrial equipment.
Unified European Aftermarket Seals Free cash flow increased by 0.5m to The businesses work closely with their group taking shape, centred on 16.4m, as capital expenditure decreased, Industrial OEM customers to specify the FPE Seals AB Seals added during but increased working capital reduced the most appropriate sealing material and theyear contribution from higher operating profits.
design for the customers application and the most suitable seal manufacturer Kentek acquisition brings new Strategy development from which to source the parts.
Once the geographic markets and adds The Aftermarket Seals businesses account part is designed in to the application, the filterproducts for ca.
60% of Sector revenues and supply businesses provide the necessary logistical own-branded sealing products used in a and technical support, in most cases for Continuing strong growth in the broad range of heavy mobile machinery the lifetime of the OEMs product.
Industrial OEM Seals businesses in applications.
The products are generally the US and Europe supplied from inventory on a next day The Groups growth strategy in the delivery basis and are typically used in the Industrial OEM Seal sector is to build and M Seals acquired Ramsay Services in repair and maintenance of equipment after expand a group of businesses in North the UK and All Seals is opening new it has completed its initial warranty or lease America and internationally.
During branch operation in Houston, Texas term.
Our businesses act as a one-stop the year, RT Dygert benefited from its source of replacement components for all investment in new elastomer compounds main brands of machinery and compared to penetrate new technically demanding to the OEM dealer network, offer higher applications.
RT Dygert also acquired the levels of customer service and more remaining 49% in the HPS seal business competitive pricing.
Both All Seals and J Royal saw good gains in existing and new market In North America, HFPG continues to segments with the introduction of new penetrate the market through its superior higher specification products.
All Seals also marketing, its relentless sales approach benefited from its investment in a water-jet and product development to extend the gasket cutting machine and in November, product line.
HFPG is always looking to will open a branch operation in Houston, improve its service to customers and Texas.
In Europe, M Seals acquired Ramsay during the year, the level of sales processed Seals, a specialist distributor of O-rings online increased by 26% and now accounts which will give M Seals an entry into the for ca.
Capacity is also Industrial OEM seal business in the UK, as expanding in the seal machining centres well as adding strengths in the Aerospace which respond to the demand from repair and Oil & Gas sectors.
DIPLOMA PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 17 Controls focus on specialised markets and added connectors to the Satellite sector in France: % of Group revenue value opportunities.
The benefits from Sacees operations have been successfully investment programmes completed last integrated into Filcon in Munich.
In the year, enabled the businesses to gain some Energy market, following its acquisition operational leverage which offset the of Rayquick in late 2012, IS-Sommer was impact from the lower initial operating appointed by its key energy products 31% margin of SFC.
supplier as one of only two master distributors in Germany.
Free cash flow increased by 0.6m to 2014 2013 11.4m, with reduced capital expenditure, The Fluid Controls businesses account but with working capital increasing to for30% of revenues and supply a Revenue 94.6m 86.2m takeadvantage of opportunities within range offluid control products used Adjusted operating existing markets.
broadly across the Food and Beverage profit 15.3m 13.9m industry.
Productsare used in a range Strategy development of applications including food retailing Adjusted operating The Interconnect businesses account and transportation, catering equipment, margin 16.2% 16.1% for 70% of Controls revenues and supply vending machines, coffee brewing, pure Free cash flow 11.4m 10.8m a rangeof high performance wiring, water and water cooling systems.
connectors, harness components, fasteners and control devices.
These Hawco has had to respond to significant Underlying Sector revenue growth products are used in technically demanding structural changes in its markets and now of 8% applications, often in harsh environments, is seeing the benefits of its repositioning in industries including Aerospace, Defence, and developmental activities.
The trend Strong growth in Interconnect, Motorsport, Energy and Medical as well as away from major out-of-town food retail driven by improved markets in the in other specialised Industrial applications.
stores and towards convenience stores UK and Germany, particularly Civil The products are generally used in initially dampened demand for Hawcos Aerospace, Energy and Motorsport refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance equipment, but Hawco is now having good programmes for equipment in service and success in both the UK and Europe with its Acquisition of SFC strengthened the are supplied to major new build programmes range of scroll compressors which offer fasteners business and added design only where smaller quantities are required a smaller footprint and greater efficiency.
skills and added-value assembly from stock.
The businesses act as a single Hawco is also seeing growing demand expertise source for a wide range of products, have for refrigeration units used in transport strong technical knowledge to specify applications reflecting the increased use Sacee acquisition extended products for customer applications and of home shopping and delivery.
Sales Filconsbusiness into Satellite offerex-stock availability and a full range into the Brewery sector have also been sectorin France ofadded value services.
buoyed by the introduction of the scroll compressors and other improved products In Fluid Controls, significant A key element of the growth strategy within designed to provide at source cooling for gainsmade by Hawco in Food & Interconnect is to broaden the range of smaller outlets such as cafes and bars.
The Beverage sector high performance products and added Abbeychart business model and resources value services offered.
As part of this applied to the coffee and catering segments Relocation of Hawcos offices, strategy, a grouping of specialty fastener are also being reshaped to match changes consolidation of warehouse businesses is being built and this group in end-user tastes and to focus on growth facilities and extension of new was strengthened through the acquisition segments where technical expertise can ERPsystem into Abbeychart of SFC, a UK based distributor of fasteners add value.
During the year, Hawcos offices and ancillary products to the Aerospace, were relocated, warehouse facilities were Performance in the year Industrial and Motorsport sectors.
SFC consolidated and the new Hawco ERP The Controls businesses increased has a strong fit with Clarendon and brings system was extended into Abbeychart.
revenues by 10%, including part year specialist technical and design skills as well contributions from SFC, a specialty fastener as added value assembly expertise.
As the Geographically, the Controls businesses company acquired in June 2014 and Sacee, groups supply of fasteners to the premium are still very concentrated in Northern a small connector distributor acquired aircraft seating industry continues to grow Europe and in particular in the UK and in October 2013.
After adjusting for the strongly, Clarendon is extending production Germany, where ca.
80% of revenues contribution from these acquisitions and line-side support to key customers and are generated.
The Group continues to for the impact of currency translation, exploiting further opportunities to export to look for new growth opportunities to underlying revenues increased by 8%.
expand into other geographic territories outside of Northern Europe, most likely Adjusted operating profits increased by Another important element of the growth through acquisitions which share the same 10% to 15.3m and adjusted operating strategy is to further penetrate specialised specialised business model and stable margins were held steady at 16.2%.
Overall gross margins in the Controls year, Filcon acquired the goodwill and businesses remained resilient with their assets of Sacee, a supplier of specialist
