Directors Report Business Overview Group Chief Executives Statement I am delighted to be reporting another year of significant Firstly, in bringing two sizeable companies together we can progress for the Group.
When taking on this role a little over leverage significant synergies from the combination.
We believe two years ago I recognised that to be successful and to best that we can deliver at least 80 million of synergies on a reward our shareholders we needed to focus on those markets recurring basis, with delivery expected in the 2017 18 financial where we have a leadership position.
So I am very pleased to year.
These are a combination of costs, revenue opportunities report that we are now delivering on that promise with our UK from putting a Carphone Warehouse mobile offering in all of our & Ireland, Nordics and Greek operations all leaders in their stores as well as some benefits from having increased scale in markets delivering great service for our customers each and administrative purchasing, such as marketing.
We confirm that every day.
In a busy year we disposed of our businesses in the synergy statements that were set out in our joint merger Italy, Turkey, Czech Republic and Slovakia, as well as exiting announcement with Carphone Warehouse on 15 May 2014 the PIXmania operations, thereby streamlining and focusing remain valid.
Deloitte LLP and Deutsche Bank AG, London the Group.
Branch reported on these synergy statements in that joint announcement and we expect them to confirm to Carphone A leadership position is important in our industry as it makes us Warehouse on publication of the shareholder documentation the most relevant place to go for customers as well as the most relating to the merger that their reports continue to apply.
If the relevant outlet for our suppliers.
It is this for which suppliers transaction successfully completes, I look forward to updating reward us, and is a key factor in ensuring we have a sustainable you on what further opportunities we can deliver in enjoining business in a multi-channel world.
These key factors put us our two businesses together.
firmly in control of our own destiny.
Our colleagues can serve our millions of customers with the confidence that we have the In addition, by being a unique place for customers to experience best offer in each of our markets.
new products that will make up the connected world as well as get advice from our highly trained colleagues, we can truly be As a more streamlined and focused group we are able to free the go to expert for this new, exciting and complex world for up capital enabling investment in our stores, colleague training, customers.
Not only can we help them in navigating their way to our websites and importantly our service offering.
Continuously a truly connected home, we can bring existing and new services improving our business for customers and colleagues has to them to keep their world functioning and connected.
This will contributed to further improvements in our already impressive not only open up new products and services for us, but can take customer satisfaction scores with, for example 88% of our relationship with our customers from a transactional one, to customers in the UK highly likely to recommend us to friends a longer term relationship.
In fact during the year 319 stores in the UK scored 100% at least once on this metric.
Further, both we and Carphone Warehouse have started to explore how we can leverage the platforms we have created Having delivered on one of our key objectives I see the three that support our core retailing and services expertise to further things we now need to focus on to drive further returns for our benefit our shareholders.
Carphone Warehouse has made great shareholders as: strides in this field with its Connected World Services business that provides a selection of services to support retailers wishing 1.
Continue to enhance and drive a successful and sustainable to add connectivity to their offering.
We already provide two man business model in a multi-channel world.
delivery logistics for certain manufacturers in the UK and are in discussions to leverage our Hong Kong 2.
Leverage our national and pan-European scale, our white label product sourcing operations for other retailers knowhow, and our unique asset base to drive growth in new around the world.
Together we can offer a full range of product areas including growth in services both to our services to business customers with the potential to build a retail and business customers.
significant operation across the globe, adding real value for our shareholders.
Become a major player in connectivity and associated services and so be uniquely positioned to benefit from Turning to the performance of our underlying operations, the technology changes as the majority of devices become UK & Ireland has had another strong year.
An increase in like connected.
for like sales of 5% across the year ensured we gained further market share.
Profitability grew by 24% to 141 million, These are discussed in more detail under the Strategy section delivering a 3.4% return on sales.
This performance reinforces of this report, but Id like to dwell on the last of these three.
the fact that we have built a market leading, economically robust business one that is delivering great service each and every You will no doubt have seen that we have announced a day.
As I mentioned earlier this is being increasingly reflected in proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse.
We have a the record customer advocacy scores.
But also because we great offer for customers across all our businesses, but as believe that we have to earn a conversation with a customer the technology we use evolves and becomes increasingly through great advice, prices and service.
Katie Bickerstaffe has connected we need to have a fully integrated offering across ably led her team in delivering a truly transformed business that electricals, mobiles and connectivity.
While we have this to stands shoulder to shoulder with our customers.
The team some extent in the Nordics and Greece, Carphone Warehouse vigorously grasped the opportunity provided by consolidation in would clearly bring further expertise in mobiles and connectivity the UK market over the last two years, significantly increasing across the Group, but most particularly to our UK & Ireland our market share and thereby our relevance to both customers business.
I am incredibly excited about the opportunities that and suppliers.
This gain has been most significant in white this proposed combination would bring to the Group.
Our two goods where we have grown market share faster than our peers businesses are coming together from positions of strength and established a market leading position across both large and which will enable us to focus on adding value the opportunities small kitchen appliances, all supported by our leading services for which I see as being the following.
offering incorporating delivery, installation, repair and recycling.
Indeed we are trialling a new kitchen department as we look to Dixons Retail plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report Strategic Summary Group Chief Executives Statement continued deepen our offer for customers in this area.
The year ahead is an exciting one for CurrysPCWorld and KNOWHOW, particularly as we combine the business with Carphone Warehouse to deliver an unrivalled offer for customers.
Our Nordics business had another successful year with like for like sales up 2%.
Jaan Ivar Semlitsch and his team have risen to face a few challenges this year while also continuing to improve the offer for customers, service levels and growing market shares.
In the Spring of 2013 we introduced Happy or Not kiosks into the stores across the region, this enables the store to monitor customer satisfaction scores in real time and make dynamic adjustments in response, such as adjusting shift patterns.
Encouragingly we have seen a steady improvement in these scores through the year with 85% of customers in April 2014 saying they were happy with their store visit.
Our business in Greece has weathered the storm of the economic crisis well.
It at last looks like there may be some glimmers of improvement on the horizon.
With powerful brand positioning and strong relationships with suppliers, Kotsovolos has gained further market share and can at last look forward with some confidence.
While the economy still has some way to go, Kotsovolos is well positioned to help customers as the recovery takes shape.
Our Group is in the best shape it has been for a number of years.
Net cash of 70.9 million at the year end means we are in robust financial health and have clarity on being able to redeem our 2015 and 2017 bonds as they fall due.
With the proposed merger with Carphone Warehouse I am delighted that we will be able to return to paying a dividend, a milestone that underpins the financial robustness of a successful business, and will enable us to further reward our loyal shareholders.
As ever I remain indebted to my colleagues across the Group, in particular those out in our shops, call centres, service labs, warehouses and delivery services helping, surprising and delighting our customers every day.
It is they that enable us to make this a truly great business and I thank them for their hard work and dedication.
We embark on a new chapter in the year ahead and I know I can rely on them for their continued support.
Sebastian James Group Chief Executive 25 June 2014 Dixons Retail plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Enfocus Software - Customer Support
