CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OVERVIEW CAPITALISING ON NEW OPPORTUNITIES We increased underlying pre-tax profit although weakness in the Chinese In 2014, we balanced see note 3 by 9 per cent and at the same economy in the second half of the year progress in sales time continued to invest in core business held back sales.
In our interim results, we performance with capacity and in enhancing and growing our reported increased price pressures in digital printing business.
China and other developing markets, and investments to sustain the potential for further deterioration in longer-term growth, while Market conditions varied as the year margins if prices continued to fall.
However, developed but they generally improved in pricing was relatively stable during the delivering profit most regions of the world, compared with second half year.
The year started well, with a wave of confidence in Europe as Aftermarket revenues remain the largest economic growth rates improved and the proportion of Group sales and during 2014 Eurozone crisis ended.
Uncertainty about we had a special focus on improving the Chinese economy receded and aftermarket retention rates, across all prospects for the broader Asian and North products and businesses.
Our win-back American markets were positive.
programme was successful, improving an already impressive retention rate and Against that backdrop, our order intake in increasing sales as a result.
the early months of the year was good, continuing the momentum from the final We made good progress in the digital quarter of 2013.
We saw growing printing business, where we have focused customer confidence, culminating in a on growing sales of full-colour digital ink jet number of large project opportunities and printing presses into the label sector.
There successes for our sales teams.
We are clear drivers for transitioning to digital reported sales growth at constant printing technology in this sector and while currency of 11 per cent in our interim the rate of change is difficult to predict, the results, with our strongest performance opportunity is attracting attention from being in Europe.
We recognised revenue on 19 N-Series digital However, as we entered our second half presses in the year and received orders or year, economic news was less positive in commitments for a number more that we both Europe and parts of Asia.
The will realise during 2015. deteriorating political situation in the Middle East and the tensions in Ukraine Full-colour printing is a new venture for the also affected customer confidence.
Group and while the applications and Summer in the northern hemisphere once customer groups are adjacent to those for again proved a strong period for coding and marking, we have faced a aftermarket sales but the return of general considerable learning curve as we establish uncertainty slowed the intake of orders for capability and capacity in the very new equipment.
Sales growth in the demanding field of colour management.
second half year was 7 per cent, before the We are progressing well in that regard and impact of exchange rate movements.
in particular with the print quality and performance of our products, which is a Our core coding and marking business had testament to the hard work of many of our a good year, with a number of large project people as we develop our knowledge and wins for new equipment, successes in our skills.
Feedback from customers has been key focus sectors of food, beverage, very positive, confirming the economic pharmaceutical and tobacco, and another gains and ultimate benefits to brand year of strong aftermarket sales.
I have owners of using digital ink jet in their label been pleased with the performance of our printing business.
The installed base of European businesses, where revenue digital presses is growing and as our growth is well ahead of recent years, and customers bring them up to full utilisation, with the USA and Canada, where we have we expect to see substantial growth in the maintained prior-year progress.
In Asia, all fluids business.
subsidiaries delivered strong growth, 6 | Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS YEAR IN REVIEW Q1 Very strong equipment salesin Europe as customer We had a successful year of new product There is no shortage of opportunity for confidence increased introductions in 2014.
Early in the year, we our business to grow.
The overall sales launched enhancements to our continuous performance this year, in both the core ink jet, laser and thermal ink jet printer business and new digital press products, ranges, both in hardware and fluids.
We gives me confidence in our ability to deliver complemented this with a portfolio of medium-term sales increases at or above product launches in the spring, to coincide global GDP growth.
As we look forward Q2 with the important InterPack exhibition in to 2015 and beyond, it is clear the digital Dusseldorf, Germany.
Finally, in September printing business has great potential but Successful interpack we launched the N610i seven-colour digital requires significant investment.
While I exhibition where we label press at LabelExpo in Chicago, and expect to see sales progression in 2015, launched our latest i-Tech were pleased to make immediate sales at progress in profit will be held back as we the show.
plan to invest further in research and products, the A520i development and in the broader sales and continuous ink jet printer We have continued to invest in support organisation, helping to fuel and the V230i thermal productioncapacity and opened our futuregrowth.
newfactory in India this year.
Further transfer overprinter investment is planned, with work on a new factory in China commencing during 2015.
We are taking preliminary steps towards constructing a new factory and warehouse facility in the UK, on a site we have acquired next to our Group headquarters.
We also Nigel Bond Q3 made progress towards our goal of business Chief Executive Officer Launch of our 7 colour excellence, making organisational changes 15 December 2014 tosharpen our focus on key process N610i digital label press at simplification and further improve Label Expo in Chicago customerservice.
There have been a number of changes in the management team around the Group in 2014.
We filled the role of General Manager in three of our largest businesses, China, India and the USA, through internal Q4 promotions.
We also added a considerable Capex investment in new number of people to our digital printing capacity withthe opening of organisation, with many coming from the industry, helping to rapidly advance our skills the Indiafactory, breaking and knowledge.
At the end of the year, we ground for the new building were pleased to announce the promotion in Bar Hill and plans for a of Rachel Hurst, our Group Operations new factory in China Director, to the Domino Printing Sciences plc Board.
Rachel will now take full operational responsibility for our manufacturing, engineering, product management and marketing functions, and will lead the next stages of our business excellence programme.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report 2014 | 7
