STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement DAVID WILD CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I am delighted to present my first IN SUMMARY ChiefExecutive Officer's statement since o The Group opened 44 stores and beingappointed in April 2014. nowoperates 894 stores across our fourmarkets 2014 was an excellent year for the Company, building on our established o In the UK in 2014, 53.3% of total platforms for growth and benefiting from the economic recovery in our core UK market.
A recognition that franchisee profitability is a critical component orderswere made by customers of our success and a renewed focus to enhance this, has been a feature of online, up from 47.2% in 2013 the way in which the business has been managed in the past 12 months.
o The UK business achieved system Alongside the focus on franchisee profitability, 2014 has also been marked salesgrowth of 16.0% including by the ongoing rapid growth of e-commerce within the business, as well as 11.3%like-for-like the strong performance of the new stores we are opening across the UK.
These areas of growth, on which we will continue to focus, provide o We have now seen two years of confidence that the momentum can be maintained into the future.
growthin ROI and the Dublin market isdemonstrably stronger than the rest Strategy ofthe country The strategy for our business is simple and clear.
We aim to be the number one pizza company in each neighbourhood in which we operate, through o 2014 was a year of change in Germany acommitment to offering the best product, service and quality to as we implemented a new strategy ourcustomers.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have a very strong network of franchisees who execute the strategylocally.
We support them with: o an efficient, low-cost supply chain to help drive down costs: o innovative product development: o world-class marketing and e-commerce initiatives: o audits that maintain standards: and o property management, including new store development.
We have a highly developed and successful business in the UK and ROI.
We have the opportunity to develop a strong position in Germany and Switzerland, where, although our operations are very immature, weare rapidly gaining experience.
In the UK in 2014, 53.3% of total orders were made The Group opened 44 stores and now operates 894 stores across our by customers online, up from 47.2% in 2013.
Expressed as a total of four markets.
Our store numbers by country at the end of 2014 were: delivered orders, e-commerce customers represented 70.6%.
UK 813: ROI 48: Germany 22: and Switzerland 11.
During 2014, we enhanced our mobile app and launched a new website.
We are particularly pleased with the performance of our new UK stores: The changes, coupled with further diversion of marketing funds from in 2014 we opened successfully in smaller territories and are confident conventional media into digital, drove significant growth in our online that our model generates a profitable return for franchisees in lower sales.
Customers who shop online have a higher rate of conversion, buy address count communities.
This gives further confidence that our from us more frequently, spend more per visit, hold the brand in high long-term target of 1,200 UK outlets is achievable over the coming years.
regard and are less costly for our franchisees to service.
Technology By the end of 2014, 8.2m customers had downloaded our app, up from High-quality information technology is key to running our business 3.2m at the start of the year.
successfully, both in providing efficient systems for franchisees in the One recent example of innovation in technology has been a joint project stores and eand m-commerce platforms enable customers to order with Microsoft to enable gamers to order pizza from an Xbox console.
We have achieved significant progress in both areas Thiswas groundbreaking in the UK and is an example of the business in2014, with an emphasis on accelerating our growth in online ordering.
embracing new channels to make it easier for customers to buy whilst Our focus on this strategy has led to record sales, profits and cash they are enjoying another activity.
The rapid progress we have made in e-commerce means that we are already the clear leader amongst quick service restaurant operators in digital.
We plan an aggressive programme of further investment in 2015 tostrengthen our position.
Supply chain Our UK supply chain is one of the most sophisticated and efficient throughout the Dominos worldwide system.
We operate two Supply THE RAPID PROGRESS WE Chain Centres, our main facility in Milton Keynes, where our Head Office is based, and asecondary plant in Penrith.
Both of these HAVE MADE IN E-COMMERCE handled record volumes in2014, and we are now actively planning athird unit, which we expect to be located to the west of Manchester MEANS THAT WE ARE and plan to open in early 2017.
In ROI, we have a Supply Chain Centre in Naas, just outside Dublin.
ALREADY THE CLEAR LEADER Thisservices the stores in Northern Ireland, as well as those in ROI.
OurGerman units are supplied from a Supply Chain Centre in Berlin, AMONGST QUICK SERVICE andinSwitzerland, we have a long-term contract with a producer anddistributor to service our growing network.
RESTAURANT OPERATORS It is critical to our business that we provide excellent service to stores fromthese centres and we achieved record service levels in 2014.
WE PLAN AN Success in our Supply Chain Centres depends on our supplier partners AGGRESSIVE PROGRAMME providing us with consistent quality products.
Our philosophy is to enter long-term relationships, which ensures that they benefit from our growth.
OFFURTHER INVESTMENT The added bonus from this approach is that we are able to give our franchisees not only low food costs, but also medium-term certainty of IN2015 TO STRENGTHEN pricing, enabling them to plan their businesses and pricing effectively.
We are also able to compare prices and pool supply to guarantee that we are minimising costs in our smaller markets.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 07 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement continued Product development During 2014, we continued to innovate in pizzas with the Carnivale range launched in late spring to coincide with the interest in everything Brazilian during the football World Cup.
We also launched a new Domino's Stuffed Crust product, using cheese and smoky bacon.
DURING 2014, WE CONTINUED InROI, where Domino's Stuffed Crust has not been a success, weintroduced a pan pizza product, learning from the impact that thishad in the US.
TO INNOVATE IN PIZZAS WITH We also launched some great new sides, most notably nachos, to reflect THE CARNIVALE RANGE our increasing wish to broaden customers menu options.
Finally, our Q4 launch was hot doughnuts, extending our dessert offer LAUNCHED IN LATE SPRING and providing a unique and popular choice for customers.
TO COINCIDE WITH THE UK The UK business achieved system sales growth of 16.0% including INTEREST IN EVERYTHING 11.3% like-for-like.
This was a strong and pleasing performance, which reflects not only the strength of the business, but also the opportunity BRAZILIAN DURING THE for further expansion.
During 2014, we opened 40 stores in the UK.
These units performed FOOTBALL WORLD CUP.
very well, achieving average weekly unit sales 'AWUS' of 13,555, 6.9% better than those opened in the previous year.
Equally encouraging was the performance of the immature stores opened in 2013.
On average their AWUS was 13,279, 27.9% better than the 2012 cohort delivered the previous year.
Part of our success in 2014 can be attributed to the recovery in the UKeconomy, as well as the benefits of an effective football World Cup campaign.
The sales growth was boosted especially by the continued stream of family meal bundles and the execution of our e-commerce programmes described above.
ROI 2014 was another year of recovery within our Irish business.
The country was badly hit by the global economic crisis and the customers in ROI suffered a dramatic reduction in spending power and sales dropped sharply as a result.
We have now seen two years of growth and the Dublin market is demonstrably stronger than the rest of the country.
We have dedicated programmes of activity in marketing and product development for ROI.
"This includes sponsorship of ""the Big Big Movie"" on RTE and the launch of pan pizza amongst other initiatives."
Marketing Online participation in ROI has been significantly lower than the UK, We launched our Greatness campaign in September 2013.
During butthe launch of a specially adapted version of the new UK website 2014, this was the focus of our above-the-line investment, providing an hasled to a dramatic improvement in performance.
Our mobile app umbrella to our advertising, whether it was strategic and brand-building hasproved particularly popular with Irish customers.
or tactical to highlight our national promotion offers.
We are optimistic that we will see new store opportunities in ROI As mentioned earlier, more of our National Advertising Fund was deployed in2015.
The information available from data analytics for online spend is a powerful tool in ensuring that investment is appropriately targeted.
Equally, our website is always up to date with the latest offers andmenu choices, which together with the appetising presentation oftheproduct, makes selection easier.
Local store marketing continues to be an important component of our mix, allowing franchisees to respond to individual store or community opportunities effectively.
Our continued sponsorship of the X Factor app has been successful and ensures brand salience during the key weekend evening slots.
The 2014 season was a successful one with a record 2.6m downloads of the app.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Germany 2014 was a year of change in Germany as we implemented a new strategy.
We opened three new stores and closed four underperforming outlets.
We started the year believing that a transition from corporate stores to a franchise model was appropriate.
It became clear, however, that until viable store-level economics are established, the losses associated with operating in this market are unsustainable for franchisees.
Equally, it became evident that UK franchisees, accustomed to a more liberal and lower-cost labour environment, could not adjust their model to the German market and three left the network, leaving just one remaining.
At the half-year, we reported a write-off against accounts receivable relating to underperforming franchisees of 2.5m.
This was not repeated in the second half.
Overheads in Germany were reduced early in the year as we sought to focus on store-level economics rather than rapid expansion.
Additionally, From Q2, however, we saw a steady improvement in inter-year sales growth.
weleveraged capability from the core UK business to improve effectiveness The store network has been improved significantly, with one major remodel, in the key areas of marketing, supply chain, IT and finance.
two relocations, which have raised sales substantially, and one new store.
A challenge in Germany has been the historic widening of delivery In 2015, we plan a further two relocations and four new stores.
Whilst this is superficially attractive, the delivery Revenue costs associated with the network improvements depressed and local marketing costs associated with this are punitive and, ultimately, profitability by CHF 0.2m and additional depreciation of CHF 0.2m was pizza quality suffers.
We have now rationalised and are servicing manageable charged in the year, but the benefits associated with the enhancements territories and, in some stores, we have seen asales impact.
will continue in the years ahead.
At the end of 2014, there were 22 stores in Germany, of which 11 We have introduced a steady stream of new products in Switzerland, werecorporate and 11 were franchised.
We plan a modest opening including mazubi pizza, which features a cream spinach base, developed programme in 2015 as we continue to focus on creating attractive in collaboration with Migros, Switzerlands most important retailer.
store-level economics prior to a significant roll-out.
We have also improved our salad quality and introduced single-serve In preparation for the introduction of the national minimum wage desserts in the form of brownies, which were especially popular with inGermany, we raised remuneration for colleagues in corporate stores carry-out customers.
and have invested significantly in training.
More work is required in this A major initiative in the market was the introduction of e-scooters, area andlabour scheduling continues to be an opportunity.
whichsignificantly reduce delivery costs and are more environmentally Our menus have improved with new pizza toppings being regularly friendly.
The scooters have been well received by the public officials introduced.
We have also launched a range of pasta in line with other inSwitzerland because they have lower noise pollution, and we received German competitors.
a grant from the energy department to support the investment.
Overall, sales performance in Germany has disappointed, albeit there During the year, we seconded a very experienced UK operator to Switzerland was some modest improvement towards the end of the year.
Through the implementation of new scheduling systems, we have shortened delivery times to customers The financial performance continues to be a concern, but losses narrowed andreduced store payroll.
We also rationalised Head Office costs.
sharply in the second half, compared to 2013 and we expect this trend Wecontinue to seek benefits from closer management of our price lists, to continue into 2015. leveraging the power of purchasing from the UK and ensuring we are Switzerland appropriately competitive.
The integration of the Swiss master franchise, acquired in September 2012, We have been disappointed with our digital performance in Switzerland continued in 2014.
This is a corporate store market and we have no and plan to replace our current website later in 2015.
Online participation immediate plans to introduce sub-franchisees.
inthe market is very low compared to others and we see opportunity formaterial up-side in the future from this change.
Switzerland had a slow start to 2014, in part due to mild weather which suppressed sales.
Future prospects We have entered 2015 with a strong plan and a high degree ofconfidence around its successful outcome.
The UK business isperforming strongly and consistently ranks highly against other Domino's countries around the globe.
Both the franchisees and my Head Office colleagues are proud to be the largest non-US market andare excited about the future growth potential.
WE HAVE ENTERED 2015 David Wild WITH A STRONG PLAN Chief Executive Officer ANDA HIGH DEGREE OF 25 February 2015 CONFIDENCE AROUND ITS SUCCESSFUL OUTCOME.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 09
