16 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chief Executives statement A challenging year, but good progress made on our biomass transformation Dorothy Thompson CBE Chief Executive Our main priority in 2014 wasthedelivery of our biomass transformation project.
17 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 The dynamics of the forest industry Review of the year aresometimes misunderstood.
Our main priority in 2014 was the delivery Demand for wood helps keep land in of our biomass transformation project.
forest and incentivises investments For the business and our shareholders, innew and more productive forests, 2014 proved to be a very difficult year all ofwhich have significant carbon as various regulatory risks materialised benefits.
Our calculations show that and we faced a major deterioration therange of sustainable biomass in commodity market conditions.
materials we have burnt over the Despite these challenges I am able last fewyears has a low carbon to report very good progress in our footprint.
In 2014, the average transformation into a predominantly greenhouse gas emissions from renewable electricity provider.
We are on burning biomass were 34gCO MJ: 2 track to deliver according to the plan we significantly below 79gCO MJ which 2 initially laid out in 2012. is the maximum to bepermitted under theUK governments framework for Our vision for Drax is to be a bold,  for biomass customer oriented power generation that are expected to become mandatory and retail business, driven by biomass later this year.
In moving towards achieving our vision, we made good progress Our developments in the US are during 2014 on our biomass supply animportant part of our biomass chain construction projects in the sourcing strategy.
They help us to US, our biomass conversion project at optimise the biomass supply chain Drax Power Station, and our growth in whichis still in its infancy, particularly electricity sales to businesses.
in the southeast US which is the main source of our biomass.
The main drivers forour upstream investments are Earnings twofold: securing the timely delivery Our earnings for 2014 reflect our of reliable wood pellet supplies to Drax progress in delivering reliable biomassPower Station and consolidating third fired generation as the earning potential party and own supplies to secure of our coal-fired generation fell following more efficient and cost-effective the near doubling of the UK carbon tax.
At 229 million, EBITDA is roughly level Our two, 450 thousand tonnes per with last year 2013: 230 million.
annum wood pellet plants Amite Mississippi and Morehouse Louisiana Securing sustainable have now entered into commissioning.
biomasssupplies Our port facility at Baton Rouge Louisiana is now ready to receive Sustainability is critical to our biomass and despatch wood pellets to the strategy.
All our biomass, whether in UK.
We continue to evaluate further rawfibre or pellet form, is procured upstream development opportunities against our own robust sustainability inthe US.
These include requirements for high greenhouse gas emission Aside from our investments to reduction, habitats and biodiversity secureaself-supply of sustainable protection, as well as due consideration biomass, we have made good progress to the important socio-economic factors towards securing near-term volumes in the source areas.
A programme of wood pellets from suppliers in of independent audits verifies that themarket with more than six million all our suppliers comply with our tonnes contracted for April 2015 sustainability criteria.
We continue our negotiations for additional longer term volumes to support our third unit conversion.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview 18 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Chief Executives statement continued In June, Ofgem referred the electricity Biomass conversion Retail performance wholesale and retail markets to the In 2012, we embarked on our plan to Selling our output through our retail Competition and Markets Authority convert three of our six generating units business, Haven Power Limited Haven CMA : the main focus being on to burn sustainable biomass in place Power continues to provide us with a supply competition in the residential of coal, with a target to secure fuel for credit-efficient route to market for our market.
The CMA initiated a market all three converted units by the end of power sales compared to the wholesale investigation to determine whether 2016.
We are on schedule to meet that electricity market.
It also provides a good any feature, or combination of features, target.
Our second generating unit was route to market for the Renewables of these markets prevents, restricts or converted to burn biomass in October Obligation Certificates and Levy distorts competition in the sector.
If it 2014, after running as an enhanced Exemption Certificates earned when we concludes that there are issues that co-firing unit, that is, burning at least generate renewable power.
need addressing, it has wide ranging 85% biomass, for five months.
We plan powers to impose remedies.
The CMAs During 2014, Haven Power delivered to convert a third unit to biomass in the updated issues statement, published another year of substantial growth in 12-month window from 1 July 2015. in February 2015, reported no finding a highly competitive market with retail of major competition concerns in the sales 46% higher, in volume, than in 2013. generation sector.
We expect the CMA Coal-fired generation An excellent standard of customer to conclude its inquiry during 2015. performance service is central to our proposition for We are co-operating fully with the our retail operations.
We are a consistent As in previous years, we delivered strong CMAs investigation.
high performer in the Datamonitor generation output from our coal-fired In November, we reached a settlement Energy Buyers Survey and have a good units.
We were able to continue to deliver agreement with Ofgem regarding renewals record.
additional value to the business through non-compliance with our obligation providing flexible generation output We have been working to minimise under the Community Energy Saving and balancing services to the System the risk that we face from the Programme.
The settlement, worth Operator, National Grid, in support of implementation of a price freeze, as 28 million, will see up to 20 million system stability and security.
announced by the Labour Party at its benefit vulnerable energy consumers 2013 Party conference, should the Party through a programme of work to be come to power following Mays General Health and safety developed by the charity, National Election.
Apart from a small number of Energy Action.
In the UK, our safety performance customers that take supply on default remains industry-leading.
During 2014, In December, the Government published terms, all of Havens customers are we undertook a significant amount a consultation on changes to the supplied under fixed term contracts.
of project work and a single planned grandfathering policy for future biomass We do not believe that this form of outage on one of our generating units.
and co-firing conversion projects under contract is the primary target of the All work was completed without a worse the RO.
The changes proposed would proposed freeze.
apply to all such projects except those already awarded with an investment In 2013, the safety performance in the Regulatory framework contract, for example, our third unit US at our construction sites was weaker conversion as mentioned above.
The regulatory framework is a key than safety performance of our UK The outcome of that consultation will influencing factor on our business.
During last year we worked have no impact on Draxs base strategy At the start of 2014 we had expected hard to drive improvements at these of converting three generating units to to be awarded two early contracts for US sites to meet our UK standards.
burn sustainable biomass in place of coal difference or investment contracts Together with our contractors we made and becoming a predominantly biomassinline with the new, forthcoming good progress during the year.
However, if the contracts for difference regime our achievements were marred by the consultation proposals are upheld, it will to support our second and third tragic death of a sub-contractor towards reduce our options for the conversion of unit conversions.
management has always been at the In April, the government concluded that centre of our management ethos.
Also in December, the first capacity the second unit was no longer eligible The incident serves as a poignant market auction was held.
The market is for such a contract.
We mounted a reminder of the importance of designed to ensure security of electricity legal challenge and the High Court strong safety systems and controls supply by providing a payment for found in our favour.
However, the in the construction and operation of reliable sources of capacity.
Two of government appealed that judgment large plant.
Drax Power Stations coal units were and won.
We subsequently converted successful in the auction, with the our secondunit under the Renewables capacity required for delivery in 2018 19.
The investment contract for our third unit conversion has been executed, but is subject to EU State Aid clearance which is still under review.
19 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Looking ahead We are on track to complete our transformation into a predominantly biomass-fuelled power provider in 2016.
The case for a three unit conversion is robust and we are committed to full execution of this project.
We remain convinced that sustainable biomass has an important and strategic role to play in the future energy mix of the UK.
Not only does biomass bring the benefit of significant carbon savings over fossil fuels, but it does so without jeopardising the security of supply characteristics traditionally associated with fossil fuel technology.
The financial benefit of biomass generation from converted coal units is very significant.
Independent economic analysis by Frontier Economics estimates that, if our biomass transformation project converting three of the six generating units at Drax Power Station to burn biomass in place of coal was replaced by offshore wind in 2020, the cost to the economy would be 3.4 billion more.
We trust that, over time, the significant benefits of biomass conversion as an attractive renewable will underpin support for further generating unit conversions at Drax.
We remain alert to future strategic opportunities and will continue to review options that build on the wider strengths and competences of the Group with 2020 the potential to generate value for Making a meaningful contribution to the UKs 2020 climate change targets.
As ever, it is a complex picture for our stakeholders to evaluate, but I am confident that our transformation will deliver an attractive future for the business and our shareholders, whilst delivering a significant amount of cost-effective renewable power to UK consumers and making a meaningful contribution to the UKs 2020 climate change targets.
Dorothy Thompson CBE Chief Executive 23 February 2015 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
