14 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review A trusted and strategic partner to our customers, delivering innovative packaging solutions for all their needs.
OVERVIEW The financial year 2013 14 has been a year in which DS Smith has delivered on its targets, with strong growth in profits, returns and dividends.
Integration of the business acquired from SCA, in the first full year of ownership, is now well established and we continue to be extremely excited by the opportunities for the combined business.
We have delivered on our synergy targets for the year and on our broader key performance indicators, which apply to the whole business.
We have gained market share, further improved our health and safety performance and continued to reduce our environmental impact.
We are investing further in the business to underpin future growth.
In 2013 14 the Groups corrugated box volumes grew 2.2 per cent, ahead of the corrugated packaging market and ahead of our target of volume growth of GDP 1 per cent.
Volume growth has been particularly strong in our Central Europe and Italy region, benefiting from new customer wins and expanded service to existing customers, in fast-moving consumer goods FMCG, on-line retail and the automotive sectors.
Our DACH and Northern Europe region has also shown strong growth as we have been able to offer customers a wider geographic reach, with Miles Roberts volume growth across a range of sectors.
Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 15 customers.
Our focus on innovation and, achieved despite owning SCA Packaging Average working capital in particular, performance packaging, has for an additional two months compared to to revenue put us in a good position to help mitigate the prior period.
This would have had an the impact for our customers, delivering underlying negative impact, given the packaging solutions with the performance relatively poor historic performance of qualities that they need, while using smart SCA Packaging compared to DS Smith.
3.4% design to reduce the cost of materials used.
2012 13: 4.5% Return on sales has increased by 80 basis Sustainability is at the heart of our points to 7.6 per cent 2012 13: 6.8 per Earnings per share business model, meaning that not only cent, within our target range of 7 to 9 is our product fully recyclable, but that per cent, reflecting the improvement in our financial performance is equally profitability driven by our strong focus on sustainable.
During the year we have costs and the on-going delivery of planned 21.4p taken action to make the business more synergies.
This margin increase has been 2012 13: 17.1p efficient and able to take advantage of achieved despite the substantial short-term a range of commercial opportunities that headwind on operating profit presented by are now open to our pan-European the continued lack of growth in European All numbers within this review are based on business.
We expect the benefits of consumer spending and a significant continuing operations before amortisation this work to underpin future growth.
increase in input costs due to rising paper and exceptional items, unless otherwise prices which, as expected, have been stated.
Comparatives have been restated DELIVERING ON OUR KEY partially recovered in the financial year.
for the impact of IAS 19 Employee Benefits PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Revised 2011.
Return on average capital employed has Our performance this year has delivered improved by 80 basis points to 13.0 per cent Revenues grew by 10 per cent, due to progress on our key performance indicators.
2012 13: 12.2 per cent, within our mediumorganic growth and the contribution from As set out above, corrugated box volumes term target range of 12 to 15 per cent and the legacy SCA Packaging business for a full grew by 2.2 per cent.
This exceeded our well above our cost of capital of c. 9.5 per 12 months in this year versus 10 months in target of GDP 1 per cent, with year-on-year cent.
The improvement is driven by our the prior year.
Operating profit increased GDP growth, weighted by our sales in the improved profitability and continual focus 23 per cent to 307 million 2012 13: 249 markets in which we operate, estimated at on capital allocation within the business, million, including the benefit of 40 million 0.9 per cent Source: Eurostat.
DS Smith including working capital, which has again of cost synergies, which we have delivered has been gaining market share across our shown further improvement this year.
A further 40 million benefit regions, where the overall corrugated Return on average capital employed is our is expected from synergies in 2014 15, as packaging market has shown volume primary financial measure of success, with previously announced, completing the growth of 1.2 per cent Source: FEFCO, April all senior management having part of their overall three year cost synergy programme.
These gains have been remuneration package linked to this measure.
Earnings per share increased 25 per cent to driven by the success of our commercial 21.4 pence 2012 13: 17.1 pence, building Net debt EBITDA calculated in accordance offering, in particular our ability to serve on the substantial growth of the prior two with our banking covenant requirements customers across Europe and to offer high years of 37 per cent and of 29 per cent.
was 1.96x 2012 13: 1.97x, in line with our standards of service, quality and innovation.
target of a ratio of 2.0x or below.
These results have been achieved despite In the year 2013 14, we owned SCA economic conditions across Europe During the year the Group generated free Packaging for a full 12 months compared remaining challenging, with the significant cash flow of 140 million 2012 13: 270 to 10 months in the prior year.
The pressure on household budgets impacting million.
Our underlying cash flow remains improvements made in our key performance the entire supply chain.
Paper costs comprise strong with further good management of indicators this year has therefore been approximately half the total cost of working capital, following the exceptional corrugated packaging, and paper prices have performance in the prior year.
Cash See pages 1013 for more information on our increased substantially over the period, conversion was 120 per cent, in line with strategy and key performance indicators.
requiring us to recover those costs from our our target.
com 16 Strategic Report Chief Executives Review continued DS Smith is part of the sustainable economy, these investments is expected to be with our principal product of corrugated approximately 60 million, of which 29 While we expect a difficult packaging fully recyclable, from recycled million has been incurred in 2013 14.
The consumer economic environment material.
Our Recycling business works benefits from the investment will be to remain, our focus on delivery, uniquely with customers across Europe progressively realised, substantially from capital discipline and continued to improve their recycling operations and 2015 16 and underpin our confidence in investment in the business overall environmental performance.
During our financial performance and support 2013 14 we have implemented significant our future growth expectations.
provides us with confidence new systems to track our own environmental in the sustainability of our Growth capital expenditure in 2014 15 performance.
We are pleased to say that we business model.
is focused on our market leading display estimate that our CO emissions, relative to 2 packaging business, particularly in Germany, production, have reduced a further 5 per where our pan-European customers cent, meaning that we are well on target to both demand and reward innovation.
We The Group has a target for customer service achieve our 2010 commitment to a 20 per continue to invest in digital printing to of 97 per cent on-time, in-full deliveries.
cent reduction by 2020. offer high quality packaging that helps our In the year we achieved 93.1 per cent, which customers to differentiate their products was adversely impacted by the inclusion INVESTING IN THE BUSINESS and explore further developments in shelf of a full 12 month contribution from SCA Alongside on-going delivery of operating ready packaging.
At the same time, our quality performance, we continue to invest in the measure defects parts per million has business.
Net capital expenditure of 156 FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSLATION improved by 19 per cent.
These measures million has been spent in the year, of which 74 Approximately 65 per cent of the Groups are critical to us as they reflect our per cent has been spent within the corrugated EBITA is earned in euros.
The results for the commitment to be a trusted business packaging side of the business, reflecting a year 2014 15 will be influenced by foreign partner and are part of our overall vision wide range of opportunities for growth in this exchange translation, where the euro is to deliver high standards of service, quality business.
When considering growth capital currently weaker than the average rate over and innovation in packaging solutions for expenditure and restructuring expenditure, 2013 14 of 1.19.
A change of 1c impacts EBITA our customers.
Our service levels remain our primary measures of return are cash by approximately 1.6 million and profit a strategic priority and a clear area of payback, and a return on capital well in excess before tax by approximately 1.2 million.
differentiation in a very fragmented market.
Specific returns are varied according to the risk profile of the investment.
DS Smith is committed to providing all OUTLOOK employees with a safe and productive The current year has started well and is in We have now owned the SCA Packaging working environment.
We are pleased to line with our expectations.
While we expect business for about two years and the report a further substantial improvement a difficult consumer economic environment integration programmes are now business in our safety record, with our accident to remain, our focus on delivery, capital as usual.
We continually seek to optimise frequency rate reduced a further 22 per discipline and continued investment in the the business for both future growth and cent from 6.2 to 4.8.
This reflects the business provides us with confidence in competitiveness.
As a result, a number of on-going commitment to best practice in the sustainability of our business model.
restructuring exercises are taking place health and safety, which is supported by Looking ahead we remain excited about across the business.
Our target is for zero accidents, further growth opportunities for the Group.
this investment which, combined with our which we are proud to report that 70 per targeted capital expenditure programme, cent of sites achieved this year.
We continue is designed to optimise our footprint, drive to strive to achieve zero accidents for the greater efficiency and further improve Group as a whole.
The total cost of Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2014
