CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Will Adderley Chief Executive Overview Strategic progress The business has delivered a solid trading performance over the We have continued to make good progress with the four last financial year as well as making further progress against our strategic pillars of our strategy.
Pillar 1 develop our specialist proposition We continue to strengthen our customer proposition through We know from research that the primary criterion for customers increasing the market leading choice we offer in store, improving in selecting a homewares retailer is breadth of choice.
the quality of customer service and introducing added value Furthermore, with colour, design and tactile aspects core services, such as Dunelm at Home.
This development of our to many of our customers selections, most of homewares customer offer will continue alongside our constant commitment purchases are made in store, where physical comparisons to delivering excellent value for money.
Industry-leading product choice in our 137 superstores is therefore a key differentiator, with each store Our total revenue for the year increased by 7.8%.
Within this, offering over 20 categories of quality products spanning a broad like-for-like sales calculated by comparing stores which have price spectrum and appealing to a wide variety of tastes.
traded throughout the last two financial years grew by 2.1%, despite a disappointing start to the year due to very hot weather We continue to build on this strength introducing a high in July 2013.
During the year we opened 12 new superstores, proportion of new products and designs across our ranges, including three relocations resulting in the closure of two with 30% of our c. 20,000 lines being refreshed annually.
Over existing superstores and two high street shops.
the last year we have given particular focus to enhancing both the product range and in-store representation of furniture in the Our continued store expansion and positive like-for-like growth majority of our stores: and we have expanded our child-focused has meant that during the past year we have consolidated proposition, including the creation of a dedicated kids zone in further our leadership of the UK homewares market, as reported newer format stores.
Verdict estimates our share of the market to have increased from 6.8% in 2012 to 7.4% over the 2013 We recognise that, in order for product choice to be meaningful, calendar year.
it has to be allied to value for money at all price points.
We constantly monitor our prices against a wide range of We also continue to progress initiatives to support the longer competitors and continue to have a very high level of confidence term growth of the business.
The key investments during in the value we offer.
Our approach to pricing is consistent the year are discussed in greater detail below and include across each product category.
Our entry-level prices on basic the transition to a new multi-channel fulfilment operation, products compete with products offered by grocers and our first national TV advertising, the upgrading of key points discount multiples but at a higher quality, and our highest of infrastructure and the roll-out of our Dunelm at Home quality products are comparable with the quality of products in proposition.
Whilst the scale of these planned investments department stores and higher-end independent retailers but at resulted in operating costs growing at a faster rate than sales keener prices, with exceptional value through the middle of our over the year, we were nevertheless able to deliver an operating ranges.
We also supplement our regular product ranges with a margin which was slightly stronger year on year at 15.9%, flow of special buy products which are constantly changing so reflecting continued benefit at the gross margin level from our that our customers discover new merchandise each time they ongoing direct sourcing initiative.
Dunelm is a highly cash generative business with capital Our strong product credentials of choice and value are expenditure fully funded from operating cash flows.
Whilst complemented by knowledgeable, friendly customer service we retain a preference for capital flexibility, we have decided together with a high quality in-store experience and key to reflect our consistently strong generation of free cash flow differentiating services.
by reducing the level of dividend cover from 2.5x to 2.2x.
Combined with our earnings growth, this leads to a 25% year on year increase in the level of the total Ordinary dividend for the year.
In addition we paid a special dividend totalling 50.7m during the financial year, reflecting our approach of periodically distributing surplus cash to shareholders.
8 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials During the last financial year, we invested further across each Our new stores continue to deliver strong returns on investment, of these elements.
Colleague labour hours released through with the average discounted payback for stores opened in continuing to simplify or remove in-store tasks have been the last three financial years expected to be approximately re-allocated to customer service, and we have introduced the 24 months.
We currently target the majority of our new store second phase of our customer service development programme openings to achieve discounted cash flow payback of a Customer First.
The success of this approach is reflected in maximum of 36 months, although we recognise that as our the continued improvement in our customer service metrics and portfolio becomes more mature our investment appraisals will excellent feedback from our customer satisfaction surveys.
need to reflect greater cannibalisation of revenues from existing stores.
Going forward, we anticipate that up to a third of new Our Dunelm at Home service, through which customers can stores will be targeted to achieve payback in up to 48 months.
select bespoke, made-to-measure curtains, other window treatments and matching accessories via a free home design Our store refit programme continues, with approximately consultation, was extended significantly during the year and is 4.0m invested during the year to improve the overall shopping now provided by the majority of our stores.
This allows the vast environment, increase the number of inspirational displays and majority of customers nationwide to have access to the service.
rebalance category space including the introduction of new We invest significantly in the training and development of our ranges such as furniture.
While the majority of this investment is home consultants to ensure high levels of customer satisfaction.
now focused on smaller scale refits, we completed major refits in three stores during the financial year.
As a result 38% of our We also continue to invest in increasing awareness of the superstores are either new or have benefited from a major refit Dunelm brand, launching a new logo and primary strapline over the past three years.
Theres no place like Dunelm last autumn.
This evolution of our brand positioning better communicates Dunelms range Pillar 3 grow multi-channel authority across all homewares categories and our value, In common with trends elsewhere in UK retail, Dunelm convenience and service advantages.
We invested in national customers continue to embrace the convenience and value of TV advertising for the first time in the spring, following a multi-channel shopping, with the majority of shopping journeys successful regional pilot prior to last Christmas.
This involved now involving some element of on-line activity browsing, an incremental investment of over 3m, at the same time as research or purchasing through our website, www.
increasing our commitment to catalogues, traditional press advertising and digital marketing.
We have seen unprompted A key development in our on-line proposition over the last year brand awareness increase steadily since we commenced has been the move to a new dedicated fulfilment operation our TV advertising and we will continue testing it this autumn, for deliveries to home, which has enabled us to increase including through the sole sponsorship of ITVs newly launched significantly the number of products available for home delivery, Encore channel.
shorten lead times for standard deliveries and offer next day delivery as a premium service on 15,000 lines.
The new facility, Pillar 2 develop the store portfolio operated on our behalf by a third party partner, became The vast majority of our portfolio comprises out-of-town operational in October 2013. superstores, with the average store footprint around 30,000 square feet of retail space.
This investment in space enables We have also expanded choice for customers by increasing us to offer over 20,000 homewares products with the depth of the range of products customers are able to buy from us range, inspirational presentation and availability that customers on-line, launching extended ranges of online-only furniture to expect from a specialist retailer and which we consider to be a complement the ranges displayed and sold in stores.
In most cases we are also able to provide a Pausa coffee shop, now present in over 100 stores, With the above developments supported by increasing investment giving an additional reason for customers to visit and increasing in digital marketing, we have seen our multi-channel revenues their engagement and time in our stores.
continue to grow strongly, representing 6% of revenues over the full financial year and approximately 7% in the final quarter.
We see In the last financial year we opened 12 new superstores two scope for this proportion to increase further.
being superstore relocations and one being a high street relocation taking our superstore chain to 136 stores at the year At the same time, we are close to completing the upgrade of the end, providing 4.0 million square feet of selling space in total.
software platform which runs our customer website, involving One additional new store has been opened since the year-end a capital investment of 7m, of which 5.0m had been spent and 10 more stores are contractually committed and expected as at the end of the financial year.
This upgrade provides to open in the current financial year.
We remain confident in further scalability, improves the customer journey and shopping further opportunities for us to increase our coverage nationwide, experience and paves the way for more frequent enhancements retaining our view that our mature UK superstore portfolio will to functionality going forward.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Pillar 4 develop and exploit our infrastructure Summary and outlook Investment in our business infrastructure across IT systems, Dunelm has delivered solid trading results in the last financial distribution facilities and people is a key contributor to Dunelms year.
We have again strengthened our specialist proposition, success and this continued in the past year.
improved customer service in store and increased the profile of our brand.
Each of these, together with our traditional product In addition to the work on our new web platform, our IT team strength, has enabled us to increase sales on a like-for-like basis has successfully completed a major upgrade to our enterprise and to continue to gain market share.
We have also made good wide SAP system and has launched new improved in-store strategic progress, growing our business through new stores systems for customers ordering made-to-measure curtains.
and multi-channel, and strengthening our infrastructure.
I would Technology is increasingly critical to delivering a high quality like to thank everyone involved in the business their hard work customer experience, not only on-line but also in stores and and commitment in achieving this.
through our customer contact centre.
Accordingly, we have developed an extensive, multi-year programme of future On a personal note, I would like to thank Nick and the team for improvements and are investing heavily in our own internal IT all that they have achieved over the last few years, continuing capability to enable this programme.
to build the business and further improving our operational platform.
I am very much looking forward to leading the We have made further changes to our central warehouse business in its next phase of growth.
operations to allow more store-efficient deliveries and also to support the increased volume of merchandise flowing through our own supply chain, driven by store expansion and the Will Adderley continuing move towards direct sourcing.
However, our long Chief Executive term planning suggests that our rate of growth will require us to invest in enlarged central warehousing facilities in the 11 September 2014 medium term, and we are currently developing detailed plans for this project.
We also continue to increase the quality and quantity of our central capabilities to deliver our future growth plans.
Specifically this includes adding additional resource in our buying and supply functions to service the greater level of inventory sourced directly.
We have also further strengthened our senior management team.
Following the recruitment of a new Chief Information Officer at the beginning of the financial year, in January we appointed an experienced Commercial Director, who has already helped us to develop further our buying, supply, marketing and space management teams.
We will continue to build these teams in support of our enlarged business.
10 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11
