s t e k r a R m e g n a i w c o h r g i f n o g e r a c h. s r 9 e 0 g r a % l a o e k f a t g o l t o y t b i E n W a R u l t U O r G o T N p U p D P F O ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group Chief Executives Review the US reading slightly above 50 and China reading around 50 for most of the year.
We believe that the Groups improved sales growth performance in the second half of the year in part reflects this more favourable PMI backdrop.
Trade associations from within the electronics distribution industry, such as the Association of Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components AFDEC and National Electronic Distributors Association NEDA, have reported improving activity levels from their members during the year.
In addition, the large volume electronics distributors have reported a return to sales growth during the year and improving order book trends.
This more favourable electronics environment has also begun to feed through to our business, with our electronics product categories, an important part of our Famous For product range, showing a return to sales growth of 3% in the year, having been in slight decline for much of the past two years.
Market environment The market environment improved as the year progressed.
Whilst our market backdrop is more robust than it was a This was reflected in the Groups sales growth rates, which year ago it remains difficult to predict future sales growth, improved from 1% in the first half on a day-adjusted, particularly given our limited order book visibility.
constant currency basis to 3% during the second half.
This International share gains and margin expansion improvement did not occur in a consistent manner.
After a During the year the International business grew sales by 4% step-up in sales growth rates in the autumn, growth faltered on a day-adjusted, constant currency basis.
Whilst there during December and January these months were noticeably has been a more favourable market backdrop as the year has impacted by severe weather conditions in North America progressed we have supplemented this by taking market which kept many of our customers away from their workplace share from the numerous small distributors against whom we before another step-up was seen in February and March.
The most important indicator of our market conditions remains Within the International business the share gains have been the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Indices PMIs.
In the greatest in our Continental Europe region.
This partly reflects early part of the year the PMIs in the UK, Europe and Japan the fact that many of our smaller competitors in this region improved to a reading above 50, which is indicative of a return have found it difficult to obtain credit for several years now to growth in the manufacturing sector in these countries.
In and therefore they have not been able to significantly invest the US and China the PMIs have been relatively stable, with Market environment Group sales growth Global Market 1 million Circa 30 billion 2.1% customers 2013: 0.5% Electrocomponents leading distributor See page 20 for Key Performance Indicators See page 08 for Marketplace Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 15 in their product range, website or sales capabilities.
This has contribution levels as had previously been the case.
This created an opportunity for the larger global competitors, such increased ambition for the UK is based on our view that the as Electrocomponents, to gain market share by continuing UK manufacturing sector now provides a more stable trading to invest in these areas to enhance their service levels.
environment than it did a decade ago.
Continental Europe is also the region where the Group has During the year the UK business sales declined by 2% on a made the greatest progress in implementing the new global day-adjusted, constant currency basis.
Sales trends improved strategy, particularly with regards to the sharing and rolling out in the second half versus the first half, but not by as much as of global best practice in sales and marketing.
The progress we had expected given the improvement in UK manufacturing we have made implementing our new global strategy is PMI.
Consequently, we have made a number of senior discussed further below.
Whilst the UK sales performance was When we introduced our global strategy last year we disappointing the UK business did improve its contribution highlighted that during the period 2006 to 2013 around half margin by 120 basis points to 28.7% due to an increase of the 6% compound annual growth rate achieved by our in gross margin and good control of operating costs, and International business was generated by share gains, with the contribution increased by 4%.
other half coming from market growth.
Our global strategy, Strategy implementation introduced last year, is seeking to alter this sales growth A new global strategy and a new global operating model composition such that more than half of our International for the business were introduced last year in order to put growth comes from share gains, reducing our dependency on the business in the best possible position to capture the the market rate of growth.
international growth opportunity described above whilst The rate of sales growth of our International business is maintaining our strong UK position and profitability.
particularly important as this is where we have the greatest In the past 12 months the new global operating model has ability to generate economies of scale and improve the bedded down, and there has been good early progress International business contribution margin.
Our UK business, implementing the global strategy and delivering our seven where we are well penetrated in the marketplace having strategic priorities comprising four growth initiatives operated there for over 75 years, generates a contribution supported by three enablers.
Below is information on some margin of around 2829% which we believe is sustainable.
of the key strategic milestones achieved over the past year.
Our International business, in contrast, generated a A summary of each element of the strategy, the milestones contribution margin of 16.7% last year.
Whilst this was an achieved during the past year and the focus for the coming improvement of around 70 basis points on the prior year, it year, can be found on pages 12 and 13, Our Strategy.
is still considerably below the UK contribution margin.
With all regions achieving similar levels of gross margin as the UK, Accompanying the global strategy last year we also set out except for North America where the industry gross margin is a new medium-term performance framework to reflect our lower, there is a significant opportunity for the International increased ambition.
We report on the four elements of this business to expand its contribution margin towards the UK medium-term performance framework, together with key level as it grows and generates economies of scale.
operational performance measures that we use to monitor our strategic progress, on pages 20 and 21, Key Performance UK profitability Indicators.
When we introduced our global strategy last year we raised our ambitions for the UK business, targeting an average of 1% to 2% per annum sales and contribution growth through the cycle, rather than seeking to maintain absolute International sales growth International contribution margin UK contribution margin 3.8% 16.7% 28.7% 2013: 0.8% decline 2013: 16.0% 2013: 27.5% See page 22 for See page 10 for our See page 12 for Business and Financial Review Business Model Our Strategy ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 16 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group Chief Executives Review continued Strategic progress during the year 2.
One Global Offer Four Growth Initiatives Our five product categories are built to service our four target customer groups and there are clear, distinct strategies for 1.
Our Famous For range, comprising semiconductors, interconnect, passives and electromechanical, and automation Across the Group, corporate customer numbers have and control product categories, are actively promoted and increased by 3% since the end of last year.
are the primary growth driver for the Group.
During the year, the Famous For range grew underlying sales by 4%, around Some of this growth reflects the initial realisation of the twice the Group sales growth rate.
Our two other product benefits from sharing best practice on when and how to categories, electrical, test and measurement, and tools and deploy the human touch to more effectively grow customer consumables, are included in our Other Maintenance range.
For example, our French business had previously We aim to defend and grow these product categories whilst developed a customer qualification process, working with our focusing on return on stock.
suppliers to identify which industry sectors and customers had high growth potential and warranted a targeted sales Across the Group we added around 60,000 new products to approach.
During the year we shared this best practice our range during the year, slightly below the 70,000 products from France with our smaller European markets, helping added in the previous year.
This is in line with our objectives businesses like our Spanish business attract new customers of improving the quality of our range by focusing new product and deliver strong underlying sales growth in the period.
investment on the Famous For product categories and building a more consistent global offer.
During the year we Customer growth was also aided by driving a significant took our first significant steps towards this second element.
increase in traffic to our websites and our continued focus We have completed the build of a more consistent global offer on providing great service to engineers via our family of across RS and Allied for our TE Connectivity product range, free, easy-to-use design tools, DesignSpark.
In the middle and have begun this process with ON Semiconductor, Omron, of the year we successfully launched our latest such tool, Honeywell, Panasonic and Phoenix Contact.
This means that DesignSpark Mechanical.
This fast 3D modelling and assembly there are around 30,000 additional products now available tool brings 3D design capability to mechanical engineers, to customers globally that previously were only available in helping them to bring innovative products to market quickly.
As at the end of the year, around 10% of In the first seven months following its launch there have our product range was available to customers anywhere in been over 70,000 activations of the software, with a large the world.
These initial pilots have successfully proven the proportion of these coming from new contacts.
concept, and moving forward we will now look to scale up our We also made progress developing an integrated strategy for ability to conduct a range level-up so that we can proceed at a each of our four target customer types to ensure our sales, faster pace over the next few years.
offer and marketing approach and service levels are targeted to each group, and we are now managing customers more The new way in which we manage our product categories has effectively across the customer life cycle.
enabled us to improve our management of our stock.
Stock provisions as a percentage of gross stock have fallen from 11% last year to 10% this year.
All of the above has been achieved whilst maintaining our high and reliable levels of service.
Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 17 3. eCommerce with a Human Touch 4.
Value for Money During the year our eCommerce channel grew sales at 6% in This strategic priority is concerned with improving customers the year, significantly ahead of the 2% Group sales growth.
perception of our range, availability and price.
This is eCommerce channel share, up 2% points in the year to 58%, underpinned by our global price differentiation strategy, continues to move towards our medium-term target of 70%.
which is designed to enable us to capture more value from our slower-moving products.
This will partially mitigate This growth has been driven by a number of factors, including our investment in margin to improve our value for money enhanced search functionality, increased investment in proposition to customers of our fast-moving products.
We search engine marketing SEM and the clear value provided made particular progress with this strategy in the UK and by our human touch, which manifests itself in the strong Continental Europe, and have begun to implement this sales performance of our eProcurement solutions for larger strategy in Asia Pacific.
This strategy, together with actions customers and in our Live Chat service, amongst other implemented to improve our customer discount effectiveness, initiatives.
has enabled the business to deliver a broadly stable Group Improved search functionality has made it even easier gross margin in the year see Operational KPIs on page 21. for our customers to do business with us.
Visitors to our During the year we significantly increased our communication websites now get more relevant and clearer product on our Value for Money strategic priority and we also carried information and have the ability to browse quick views of out pricing experiments to improve our knowledge of how product specifications.
Together with improvements we have different product categories react to price movements made to the speed and effectiveness of the search filtering and price messaging.
We rolled out a price perception functionality, customers are now able to find and buy the measurement tool in the UK, the US and China to help us products they need faster.
understand how both existing and potential customers view We have driven a significant increase in traffic to our RS our prices, and plan to take this tool into more of our markets websites over the year, reflecting an increase in SEM during the coming year.
Offsetting this increased SEM Three Strategic Enablers spend has been a reduction in our expenditure on catalogue marketing of a broadly equivalent amount.
High Performance Team Our eProcurement solution, sales of which grew by 13% in the year, helps large customers reduce their total cost of The major milestone for this strategic priority was the procurement.
During the year our sales force worked hard to achievement of a smooth transition from our previous countrymarket the solutions benefits, resulting in sales to our large based operating structure to a global operating model that is customers across RS outperforming the overall customer functionally-based but which retains the value of a local sales base.
We also completed the global roll-out of our Live Chat presence.
service across RS during the year.
The service includes both Our first global employee engagement survey in spring 2013 sales chats, when customers are invited to chat based on their showed above average levels of employee engagement.
behaviour on site, and service chats, when customers can During the year we then developed action plans across the click a button to initiate a chat themselves.
This service is now Group to enable us to improve upon these levels of employee live in 29 countries in 19 languages across the world.
engagement and in spring 2014 we undertook our second global employee engagement survey to check how we were progressing with these action plans.
This reported an New products added eCommerce sales growth Gross margin stability c. 60,000 6% 45.9% 2013: c. 70,000 2013: 4% 2013: 46.0% See page 02 for our See page 92 for our See page 22 for Strategy in Action Strategy in Action Business and Financial Review ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC LSE Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 18 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group Chief Executives Review continued improvement in employee engagement levels, which we will effectiveness and demand planning across the RS distribution look to build on in the coming year.
We have also invested in network.
The third major area of focus for this strategic priority building our programme management capabilities to ensure next year is the development of a new product management we are well-equipped to deliver our growth ambitions.
tool to allow us to consistently manage the life cycle of our products globally whilst remaining compliant with local market regulations.
2. Business Insight The eCommerce with a Human Touch strategic focus will be on the preparation for the upgrade of our web platform which we plan to commence during the year.
This will be designed During the year we defined, built, installed and implemented to enable improved functionality to enhance our competitive a new SAP-based business intelligence system on time and in edge and alongside this we will embed new ways of working budget.
The systems will support quicker and more effective to enable us to drive a faster pace of change to our website.
We are leveraging this new system to establish global product data tools.
We are now generating Other important strategic developments planned for the product reports significantly faster than before and are putting coming year include the roll-out of a SAP-based system in place training to enable users to utilise these tools and in Japan.
This will complete the SAP-based system reports to generate improved product insight for the business.
implementation in Asia Pacific, the last of the Groups regions to move to this system.
We also plan further systems investment in order to enable the business to make more 3.
World Class Systems changes faster, including a new enterprise architecture as well as a second testing environment.
During the year we successfully installed a SAP-based system We will retain our focus on growing our four customer in South East Asia and Greater China.
These are the second types, implementing a new customer insight tool and and third of our four sub-regions in Asia Pacific to move to communicating our value proposition in a globally consistent this system, following Australasia which went live with its manner to improve brand awareness.
Asia Pacific is the last of the Current trading and outlook Groups regions to move to a SAP-based system.
During the In the first seven weeks of the new financial year the Group coming year our systems implementation focus moves to has delivered sales growth of 2%.
Sales trends in May to date the final sub-region, Japan.
Having all four global regions on have improved as compared to April, which was impacted by a common SAP-based system will allow all of our markets the timing of Easter holidays.
The International business grew to have greater and faster access to the Groups strategic by 4% and the UK declined by 3% UK sales decline excluding initiatives.
Within International, Continental We have begun the initial work required to separate the Europe grew by 1%, North America grew by 6% and Asia front office, middle office and back office of our systems Pacific grew by 8%.
architecture to enable more change to occur in the business, Whilst the global economic recovery is uneven and there are faster: this work will continue into the coming year.
We have foreign exchange headwinds, we will continue to invest in also commenced the installation of a new disaster recovery our strategic initiatives.
We expect to make further progress system for Allied.
towards our medium-term performance goals during the Strategic focus for next year coming year.
Looking into the 2015 financial year, the strategic emphasis will be on our One Global Offer and eCommerce with a Human Touch strategic priorities, though as highlighted Ian Mason on pages 12 and 13, Our Strategy, there will be ongoing Group Chief Executive developments in all seven of our strategic elements next year.
22 May 2014 Within the One Global Offer strategy we plan to work with more of our major suppliers to build a more consistent global range in their product categories, using the lessons we learnt this year to enable us to move faster as we extend the process to additional suppliers.
We also intend to implement a global planning tool that will improve our supply chain planning Our Business Our Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information ELECTROCOMPONENTS PLC www.
com Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 19 Our Famous For Product Categories.
The product categories below constitute around 55% of our sales: they will be our growth drivers and we expect them to grow at around twice GDP through the cycle.
Semiconductors Semiconductors are at the heart of any electronic device and the starting point of any new electronics design.
This is why our customers need them and this is why we focus on providing a broad range of high quality products.
Interconnect, Passives and Electromechanical IP&E Virtually all electronic and electrical systems require interconnect, passive and electromechanical components.
Thanks to the strong relationships we have with our IP&E suppliers, we can offer our customers quick, easy access to the broadest range and most innovative components on the market.
Automation and Control A&C We are committed to enhancing our portfolio of A&C products, including stop switches, motor controls and industrial cabinets.
We are focused on being the main supplier for small and medium enterprises machine and panel builders, on-site maintenance engineers and buyers.
