Group Chief Executives overview Dear Shareholders, Specialty Products: David Dutro Once again, it is my privilege to report that North America coatings up 7per cent, Group Chief Elementis has delivered another year of solid driven in part by sales of innovative Executive financial performance.
The Groups strategy is products from the newly commissioned centred on creating its own growth opportunities decorative coatings facility.
based upon its strong and diverse market Asia Pacific coatings up 5 per cent positions.
This has been pivotal in enabling us with sales and profits from Chinese to deliver a fifth consecutive year of EPS growth, manufactured organoclays reaching a further improvement in our year end net cash their highest levels to date.
balance and a material increase in the total Good international sales growth from dividend.
This progress has been achieved Hi-Mar, our recently acquired US based despite uneven regional and market segment defoamer business.
growth, which further validates our strategy Chromium: and underlines the resilience of Elementis.
Optimising product and sales mix to produce stable earnings and cash flow.
We remain resolute in our commitment to Cash generation was 117 per cent of outperform the market and deliver profitable operating profit.
growth across all stages of the economic cycle Maintaining a strong focus on improving our To read more on our objectives, UU and we have continued to invest to achieve that excellent health and safety performance.
strategies and business model objective.
While our global capability enables go to page 6 us to develop and leverage solutions for our Consistent with our strategic focus on growth, customers around the world, our local presence Specialty Products introduced new products, allows us to truly understand our customers expanded its geographic presence and made and their specific needs.
further investments to serve our customers growing demand.
As a result of these 2014 highlights: initiatives we: Another strong financial performance: 5th consecutive year of EPS growth.
Achieved a record level of new products Stable operating margin at 19 per cent.
as a percentage of sales, with new products Strong cash flow from operations saw accounting for 9per cent of total revenue net cash increase by $10.1million.
in the Specialty Products business.
Final dividend increased by 5 per cent.
Opened a new sales office in Houston, Special dividend paid for the 3rd Texas, led by a new business director and successive year and increased by sales team in order to focus more intensely 19per cent.
Elementis has delivered another year of solid financial performance.
The Groups strategy is centred on creating its own growth opportunities based upon its strong and diverse market positions.
This has been pivotal in enabling us to deliver a fifth consecutive year of EPS growth, a further improvement in our year end net cash balance and a material increase in the total dividend.
before exceptional items 4 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2014
