Chief Executives Review The provision of services such as free WiFi and discounted Sky entertainment packages, combined with extensive training programmes, product marketing, business advice and direct financial assistance are all aimed at reducing publicans costs and growing their sales to enhance their profitability which, in turn, benefits our income.
As a consequence of such action, we have seen a 16% reduction in the level of business failures in the year.
The improvement in trading performance has been achieved across the estate with all geographic sectors reporting stability or growth in like-for-like net income.
The Southern estate has performed particularly well helped by strong Simon T ownsend trading in and around London.
We have 732 pubs within the Greater London region and their like-for-like net income was 70 million in the year, up 4.4% on the prior year.
The top 90% I am pleased to report our full year results for the year ended 4,813 pubs of our estate, in terms of income earned, grew 30 September 2014, during which period we have delivered like-for-like net income by 3.1% in the year, demonstrating EBITDA before exceptional items of 302 million.
While this the strength of the core estate.
is down 11 million on the comparative period this is primarily due to asset disposals in line with our plans.
of Net taxation, excluding exceptional items, is consistent with last trading Net % of total Net income pubs income net income change year at 121 million.
at 30 Sept FY14 income FY13 FY14 Location 2014 m FY14 m % The stabilisation of profit before taxation is an important North 1,594 102 27 102 milestone for the business and has been delivered through an improved performance in like-for-like net income growth Midlands 1,724 110 30 110 across the pub estate combined with a significant reduction South 2,030 158 43 153 3.3 in the level of asset disposals.
The decline in EBITDA has Total 5,348 370 100 365 1.4 slowed as a result and has been offset by interest savings from continued debt reduction.
The improved profitability of Net income represents like-for-like pub level gross profits, stated before property costs of 29 million, unallocated central costs of 6 million and the retained estate is further demonstrated by the increase in excluding 3 million of net income relating to disposals or non-licensed average EBITDA per pub during the year, up 1.5% to 55,700 premises.
Enhancing returns from the estate Delivering growth Our asset disposal programme has materially reduced in scale Like-for-like net income across the pub estate grew by 1.4% as we no longer rely upon disposals to repay debt.
During the for the full financial year, with growth achieved in each quarter year we generated 73 million from asset disposals compared of the year.
In the first half of the year performance was, to 150 million of asset disposals in the prior year.
Disposals to some extent, flattered by a relatively weak comparative primarily relate to under-performing assets with the proceeds period.
The second half of the year began with some relatively re-invested to drive like-for-like net income growth and improve good weather and a modest benefit to income from the FIFA the financial returns in our retained estate.
The objective of this World Cup finals in June.
In the final quarter of the year, we equalisation of divestment and investment activities is to refaced more challenging comparatives with a strong period in deploy invested capital to optimise our returns which will lead the prior year and were therefore pleased to achieve growth to enhanced total earnings.
We target Return on Investment of 0.5% which we believe reflects real improvements in the ROI of 15% and have achieved an average ROI of 19% on underlying performance of the business.
schemes delivered in the last twelve months.
These improvements are being delivered through the In the current year, we re-invested 66 million compared to 62 successful implementation of our many initiatives aimed million in the prior year, of which, 41% was directed toward at enhancing publican profitability and through our capital income enhancing opportunities, up from 32% last year.
re-investment, which is targeting a greater proportion of investment at projects that will deliver incremental income.
06 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 have 159 commercial properties generating 7 million of Development of the Enterprise model index-linked annual income.
Our core business model is, and will remain, the operation of leased and tenanted pubs, utilising the flexibility Strong cashflow and efficient capital offered by our range of tied agreements.
In this model the structure entrepreneurial publican meets the needs of consumers and We have a manageable and tax efficient capital structure responds to changes in the competitive landscape at a local comprising predominantly long-term debt, consistent with level.
We continue to believe that this model provides the the valuable security of our freehold assets.
Our total net debt optimum solution for us and our publicans in the majority of at 30 September 2014 was 2.4 billion, down from 2.5 billion our pubs.
However, it is important that we are prepared to last year.
This debt reduction has been delivered by the strong access the value opportunity that could be available through cash generative nature of the business, with 278 million of other specific retail formats or operating models for some cash flow from operating activities 2013: 291 million.
On 7 October 2014, we completed a partial refinancing of the We are evolving the Enterprise model in a number of areas.
2018 corporate bonds which effectively moved 249.5 million We are building an improved understanding of consumer of debt that was due to be repaid in 2018 to a later maturity trends and competitor activity to inform our investment of 2023.
At the same time we commenced a new four-year and divestment decision making.
On occasion, the local non-amortising bank facility of 138 million.
The combined publican may require operational support and Enterprise effect of these transactions was to smooth and extend our capital investment to ensure the retail offer is optimised for debt maturity profile at a reduced overall cost of borrowing a particular pub.
In such circumstances, it may be beneficial which provides us with greater on-going flexibility to grow for us to have greater involvement in the operation of the the business.
pub to enhance our returns.
We have seen benefits from this intervention in our 183 Beacon pubs over the last three years Whilst debt reduction will continue, primarily through the and we have now extended this approach to nine Enterprise scheduled amortisation of the Unique bonds, it is no longer managed pubs.
the priority for the use of excess cash.
In the near-term, having funded the cash cost of our recent refinancing, we Additionally, we are developing our commercial property intend to use excess cashflow to fund business growth in capability to ensure that we secure the best use and order to generate value for shareholders by sustaining our consequential value of our assets.
This can include the letting operational progress.
of assets on a free-of-tie commercial property basis and also the use of turnover related rent agreements.
We currently The Bath Arms, Cheddar The Bath Arms has historically been the hub of Cheddar village.
There has been an Ale House on the site since 1738, with the current incarnation of the pub becoming established in 1816.
Following an extended period of design, consultation and liaison with the local community a redevelopment of the site commenced to restore it to its former glory.
The Bath Arms is now a focal point for the local community and the surrounding areas as well as being a wonderful place for tourists to stay, eat or have a drink.
The site benefits from six luxury letting rooms and a modern skittle alley and is now once again considered the heart of Cheddar village.
The site is well supported by its community, will host a festive fair throughout December and will proudly be the home for the Cheddar village christmas tree.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 07 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Northend Vaults, Gloucester The Northend Vaults is one of the most historic buildings in Gloucester dating back to the late 16th or early 17th Century.
After a number of uses, it became a public house in the 20th Century and has remained as such ever since.
The pub suffered a number of unfortunate events, including a significant fire in 2012.
Having reviewed all options, Enterprise commenced restoring it to its former glory in September 2013.
This restoration was completed in close consultation with the local conservation officer to ensure the historic parts of the building were fully restored to their original specification and in March 2014, nearly two years after its closure, the pub re-opened its doors and started pulling pints once again.
The pub is now going from strength to strength, utilising a new beer garden at the back and the completely refurbished trade areas.
invested in programmes that will generate incremental Operational review income.
Within this total we have invested in excess of Our operational teams are working ever more closely with 100,000 in 70 pubs, in excess of 50,000 in 188 pubs and our publicans in order to deliver the improvement in likebetween 20,000 and 50,000 in 600 pubs.
for-like net income that we have achieved.
Enhancing pub profitability through the provision of services which grow our In addition to the quality and location of the amenity, we have publicans sales, or reduce their operating costs, is key to continued to evolve our transparent and flexible agreements ensuring that our income growth can be sustained.
coupled with appropriate business support in order to attract and retain the best publicans.
Sometimes the form Attracting and retaining the right publicans to of a particular asset or the needs of a publicans business the Enterprise offer plan require us to offer uniquely tailored agreements, and Our business model is based on building enduring in the appropriate commercial circumstances we will offer partnerships with great publicans.
We are competing not completely free-of-tie FOT leases, standard commercial only with other pub companies to find great people, but also leases or turnover based agreements.
with many other franchise and retail hospitality organisations.
Our unique blend of flexible agreements, estate quality We are committed to providing the help and support required and business support ensures we can attract some of the to ensure our new publicans are able to quickly establish very best entrepreneurial business operators and provide their new business.
Our 100 Days programme has been them with the opportunity to establish their own business specifically designed to support new publicans during providing valued services to local communities without the this critical period, building on our existing comprehensive financial risk and constraint of asset ownership.
support package, offering more concentrated and bespoke help, support, advice and experience from our team of Our high quality pubs in the heart of thriving local regional managers.
We believe this proactive investment in communities offer compelling business opportunities and new publicans will establish a more sustainable long-term we have continued to invest substantial sums in our estate, business for our publicans, for the communities in which our including throughout the economic downturn.
This year we pubs are located and, as a consequence, for our shareholders.
have invested 66 million into the estate with some 41% 08 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 We have recognised that some publicans who have been to determine the value protection opportunity that arises running a pub for less than a year really benefit from peer-tofrom taking full operational control of pubs at risk of business peer mentoring provided by fellow Enterprise publicans.
This failure: to assess the commercial and supply chain benefits support is provided by our most experienced and successful to the Group that can be derived from a managed operation: publicans who can provide invaluable, relevant and easily and to develop a largely outsourced, scalable back-office accessible advice.
capability which provides the essential control environment for such operating models.
Unfortunately, even the best publicans may, on occasion, need support to tackle unforeseen or unavoidable challenges Supporting publicans to grow their businesses to their business.
In the last financial year, we have therefore The average period of occupation of the publicans who provided temporary concessions and other financial support operate our pubs is currently over six years.
During that time, to publicans at a cost of 7 million 2013: 6 million.
This we invest in many activities aimed at promoting and growing expenditure can be in the form of direct financial assistance or the publicans business.
These activities are delivered support which is targeted toward business-building activities through our Pub offer, our exceptional local support and that will enhance footfall and income for the publican.
through extensive communication and marketing initiatives.
While a change of publican can Business failures be a catalyst for revitalising the Average period of prospects of a pub, a key strategic aim for our business is to avoid the publican occupation: need for a change of publican due 734 6.4 years 2013: 6.2 years to business failure.
We are pleased with the progress we have made in 21 % reducing the incidence of failure by 579 16 % Our Pub offer 16% to 486 in the current financial We have negotiated market-leading terms to enable our 486 year and we are targeting further publicans to take full advantage of both Sky and BT Sport improvement in this area.
These deals, which are enjoyed Our core leased and tenanted by over 900 of our publicans, enable them to offer a great model provides a wide range of entertainment experience to their customers at a substantially flexible agreement options but discounted cost.
sometimes local consumer or We have also partnered with Arqiva, a communications market conditions can require 2012 2013 2014 infrastructure and media services company, to offer a free, a more extensive evolution of high speed WiFi service to our publicans and their customers.
Through our Beacon Not only does this service help our publicans attract additional managed tenancy agreements, footfall and increase customer dwell time in their pubs, it can of which we have 183 2013: 185, we have seen that our also typically save them 500 per annum, and over 2,150 increased involvement in the operation of a pub can assist pubs have had the service installed to date.
Increasing the its trading income and its sustainability.
Our Beacon model number of pubs that have access to high speed internet pubs grew like-for-like net income by 7% in the financial year also gives us the opportunity to interact with our publicans and have evolved to become a successful operating concept, through our digital communication channels and will provide providing a simple, value-for-money, drinks-led pub offer.
the platform for increased electronic ordering and marketing These pubs are still operated under a tenancy agreement, as we further develop our digital capabilities.
but are supported by a dedicated retail team focused on sales, marketing, retail standards, customer service and cost In the final quarter of the financial year, we launched our control.
online ordering service to publicans and over 650 publicans have used the service to date.
This facility also allows us to We have further evolved this model such that we now also provide our publicans with up to date business solutions, as operate nine managed pubs and plan to extend this trial in well as making it easier for potential and existing publicans 2015.
We expect to evolve our approach over time, informed to interact with us.
by the evidence from the operation of these managed pubs, with the strategic objective of understanding the potential additional economic benefit to be derived from managed and semi-managed operating models: to evaluate the performance of defined retail concepts: to assess the transferability of benefits to the leased and tenanted model: Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 09 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Chief Executives Review Exceptional local support In 2012 we launched our Community Heroes Awards Our regional managers are at the centre of the commercial programme where we committed 1 million over 10 years to relationship between us and our publicans.
We have invested community causes and initiatives promoted by our publicans in an enhanced induction and training programme for our and their customers.
In 2014 nearly 300 publicans applied to regional managers to ensure they are best equipped to enter the Enterprise Community Heroes Awards, all of them recognise and respond to changing market conditions and making a significant impact on the communities they serve.
provide appropriate business support to publicans.
We are Adrian Emmett, publican of the Lion in Treorchy, was the also driving efficiencies in working practices within our 2014 National Award winner, receiving 10,000 to continue central functions to reduce the administrative burden on our his remarkable programme of community activity whilst the regional managers in order to enable them to spend more other 17 regional finalists each received 5,000 towards local face-to-face time with publicans.
causes and activities of their choice.
We offer a wide range of training courses for both new and Communications and marketing experienced publicans.
The vast majority of our training In April 2014, building on the success of our 2013 roadshows, is provided to our publicans free of charge.
We tailor our over 1,500 publicans attended our Enterprise Live events, training to take account of the evolving marketplace and representing a 29% increase in attendance over the prior the individual needs of our publicans and provide a range year.
These trade shows brought together an even wider of training formats including classroom style, on-the-job selection of suppliers and product categories, enabling training, business mentoring and access to on-line courses.
publicans to access exclusive offers with potential savings of up to 7,000 per pub.
We were also able to showcase our We provide easy access apprenticeship schemes for publicans, pubs to interested applicants, meeting and interviewing over working in partnership with our established training experts.
Apprenticeships can help improve core staff skills, covering the essentials required to run or work in a pub including customer Our marketing team provides an extensive range of tradeservice: health and safety: licensing law compliance: and cash building support to publicans, from marketing initiatives to handling.
By offering these apprenticeships, we are providing detailed help and advice providing valuable information and the foundation on which to develop a successful career in the business support.
This year, we have distributed thousands pub industry and we are pleased that over 100 apprenticeships of free business support kits to help publicans maximise have been created by Enterprise publicans in the past year.
The quality of our pubs and the capability of so many of our We promote a wide range of popular and new brands every publicans, has been recognised on numerous occasions month, enabling publicans to take advantage of discounted during the year in national and local media, as well as by prices to drive additional sales and improve gross margin.
This includes accolades for Regulatory review service excellence, design, entertainment, and beer quality, Draft legislation to establish a Statutory Pubs Code the together with AA Rosettes, Michelin Bib Gourmands and Code to regulate the activities of large tied pub companies, Michelin stars.
In the 2014 Great British Pub Awards, Kevin together with an independent adjudicator to enforce the and Michelle Abbott of The Anchor Inn in Wingham, Kent Code, was announced on 3 June 2014 in the Small Business, were named as the Best Entertainment pub in the UK, while Enterprise and Employment Bill 2014.
Whilst we remain of the The Grafton in Kentish Town, run by Joel Czopor and Susie view that the industry-owned framework of self-regulation is Clarke, was crowned as the overall 2014 UK Pub of the Year.
effective and is the best solution for all interested parties, we The Anchor Inn, The Grafton, Kings Arms, Frating Wingham Kentish Town 10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 recognise the intent of the statutory regime and are working Disposals of 73 million to redeploy capital to with the appropriate bodies to ensure the final legislation optimise returns presents a workable solution for the industry.
We have materially reduced the scale of our asset disposal programme as we no longer rely upon disposals to repay Separately, we welcomed the Governments decision to debt.
During the year we generated 73 million from the reduce the burden of duty on beer sales for the second disposal of 230 properties, at an average value of 317,000, year in a row.
Beer sales represent a significant proportion compared to 150 million raised from the disposal of 428 of turnover in the majority of UK pubs and this important properties in the prior year at an average value of 350,000. gesture, coupled with the removal of the hugely damaging The reduction in average value achieved reflects the fact that duty escalator in 2013, has provided an important boost to the vast majority of these disposals are under-performing investment and employment in UK pubs which continue to assets where the returns do not justify their retention.
be the home of responsible drinking.
Our strategy is to optimise returns by re-investing disposal proceeds to drive like-for-like net income growth and enhance Property review financial returns in our retained estate.
An underlying strength of our business is our predominantly freehold property estate.
Our estate comprises 5,406 Our disposal programme is expected to reduce in size again properties with a current book valuation of 3.8 billion.
next year with proceeds for the year to 30 September 2015 Within the portfolio we have 5,348 trading properties and expected to be in the region of 60 million of which up to 40 58 properties which are non-viable, closed properties.
Some million is expected from our Unique estate.
93% of the properties are freehold or quasi-freehold longterm leases of over 50 years.
Investment of 66 million with increasing proportion focused on growth projects Portfolio as at 30 September 2014 We have strengthened the capabilities of our property team No.
Total value and enhanced the processes controlling capital investment of pubs m to ensure that we are able to deliver enhanced returns.
Property, plant and equipment PPE During the year we invested Freehold and finance leases 5,028 3,809 Levels of capital 66 million 2013: 62 million Operating leases 260 10 investment compared in enhancing the estate.
For 5,288 3,819 the year to September 2015 Non-current assets held for sale to levels of disposals Freehold and finance leases 118 30 we are planning to increase Total pubs 5,406 3,849 208m our investment further Non-viable closed pubs 58 with spend in the region of Total trading pubs 5,348 70 million.
This is the first Represented by total PPE 3,834 million excluding other assets 25 time in many years that we 150m million, together with non-current assets held for sale 30 million and plan to invest more than operating lease premiums 10 million.
our proceeds from asset disposals.
This positive net Our pub estate is re-valued every year in part by independent investment in the total valuers and in part by our professionally qualified in-house 73m business is a necessary team.
The valuation is performed in accordance with the enabler of EBITDA growth.
66m Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Red Book 63m 62m valuation standards, which reflect the current and future Of the 66 million of capital rent and other income streams expected to be generated by investment in the year, each property, capitalised using an appropriate multiple.
As 2 million was invested in 2012 2013 2014 a result of the annual valuation, we have written down the central infrastructure and value of the current estate by 75 million 2013: 139 million, Levels of capital investment 3 million was invested a 1.9% 2013: 3.4% reduction to 3.8 billion with 42 million Levels of disposals in fixtures and fittings for charged to the Income Statement and 33 million reflected our pubs.
We invested 23 in the revaluation reserve.
As the valuation methodology million on maintaining the seeks to take account of the medium-term prospects for condition of the estate and 11 million in support of our letting income, over time we should expect sustained growth in likeprogramme, both of which protect our income streams as for-like net income to be reflected in valuation stability and, they typically involve investment in the asset infrastructure ultimately, growth.
as opposed to the retail offer.
Often such investment is made as a result of a business failure or change of tenancy.
As we reduce the level of business failures, we expect to reduce the proportion of total investment directed at this activity.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 11 for the year ended 30 September 2014 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8 Shar Shareholder Inf eholder information ormation Accounts Directors Report Strategic Report Chief Executives Review We are targeting more capital into programmes that will although we expect this number to grow in the coming years.
grow incremental income, often coupled with additional Of these properties, 137 are FOT pubs, that are included in investment from our publicans, to improve pub profitability the analysis of trading pubs shown on page 11, and 22 are and enhance our income.
In the year, we invested 27 million non-pub assets such as convenience stores.
Whilst we have in growth-driving initiatives, representing 41% of our total typically sold non-pub assets in the past, we now consider the capital investment, up from 32% in the prior year.
We target sustainability of income and returns to determine whether or a minimum ROI of 15% and have achieved an average ROI of not to retain the asset as a commercial property.
19% on schemes delivered in the last 12 months.
An additional aspect of commercial property management is to ensure that our tenants, whether tied or free-of-tie, are % of capital investment spent on growth aware of their legal responsibilities with regard to the upkeep driving initiatives of our assets and to ensure that, where appropriate, such obligations are enforced.
We complete property condition inspections for each of our assets at least twice a year and, 23% where rectification work is required, we implement a clear 32% 41% process of repairs enforcement.
2012 2013 2014 W S T ownsend Chief Executive Officer 17 November 2014 Commercial property management We are able to optimise our income from the vast majority of our assets by trading them as pubs under the leased and tenanted model.
However, we are increasingly identifying the prospect of greater value by trading the asset in an alternative use, either as FOT pubs or non-pub assets, and we currently operate 159 such commercial properties, The Foresters Arms, Lower Cumberworth The Foresters Arms is a rural village gem that was failing to meet its full potential in an increasingly competitive dining-out marketplace.
We therefore commissioned a design which better reflected the local market opportunity, improved the entire retail proposition and enabled a new publican to realise the full potential of the site.
A full internal and external refurbishment was completed, with input from, and in conjunction with, our new publican who shares this vision.
The new Foresters Arms is currently outperforming our original expectations, delivering significant increases in turnover and profit, restoring the pubs place at the heart of the local community.
Case study 3 12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts www.
com for the year ended 30 September 2014 Stock code: ETI 23605.04 9 December 2014 9:48 AM Proof 8
