COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In the final year of Vision 2015, I am not only expanded our product offering ordinary shares which partially funded the pleased to report that in 2014 we to customers but also provided compelling consideration.
With a price of 713.5p per again successfully delivered our entry points into new geographies.
First, placing share at par with the previous days strategic objectives.
in January, we announced that we had close the placing raised gross proceeds of purchased Mesan Kilit A. S. Mesan, 168.8m.
The acquisition of Clondalkin SPD Delivering balanced, profitable the leading Turkish manufacturer and completed on 30 January 2015. growth in 2014 distributor of locks, hinges, latches and In FY 2014, revenue increased 9% on hardware accessories for use in a wide During the year, we also continued our a like-for-like basis well ahead of our variety of attractive growth end-markets.
investment in our site footprint, as well at least our mid single-digit growth Then in April, we reported the acquisition as identified further opportunities for objective with this strong result being of Kelvindale Products Pty Ltd rationalisation and efficiency savings supported by investment in both existing Kelvindale in Australia, a leading through adopting a more Company-wide and new geographies, improved marketing manufacturer and distributor of an approach to our manufacturing and effectiveness and continued product extensive range of plastic protection distribution capabilities.
And finally, in we opened a purpose-built 52,000 sq.
ft. December, we announced that we had labels manufacturing facility, incorporating FY 2014 adjusted operating profit rose completed the acquisition of 100% of the the latest in digital printing capability and 16% at constant exchange, equating share capital of the major operating the best in cleanroom technology, to meet to a 30bps uplift in the margin to 16.5%.
subsidiaries of Abric Berhad Abric Seals, the growing needs of the Companys This improvement came from the delivery a global leading manufacturer and targeted healthcare and consumer of acquisition integration synergies and distributor of security sealing products packaging end-markets from a worldother savings initiatives combined with and solutions based in Malaysia.
In Louisville, US, our ongoing discipline around our underlying new warehousing and distribution facility cost base.
Financing costs benefited from Separately in Packaging & Securing not only allows us to provide an even the successful refinancing of our banking Solutions, in November we announced wider choice of standard Components facilities at more favourable rates in July an agreement to acquire the Specialist products for rapid delivery, but is now and, combined with a further 250bps Packaging Division of Clondalkin Group also holding speciality wipes and other improvement in the tax rate, adjusted Clondalkin SPD, a leading global porous components, and has the scope earnings per share at constant exchange provider of a broad suite of speciality to accommodate more of Essentras increased 19%, again well in excess of our secondary packaging solutions for the products over time.
And in Alta Parana, at least double-digit growth objective.
pharmaceutical, health and personal care Paraguay, what was previously just a industries.
With 24 facilities in North Filter Products manufacturing site has 2014 saw further investment in future America and Europe, Clondalkin SPD received investment in additional capacity revenue growth opportunities, with transforms our existing geographical and tear tape slitting equipment, providing capital expenditure of 38m.
However, capabilities to pharmaceutical and a cost-effective way of expanding our notwithstanding this spend, our operating healthcare customers who are increasingly presence in Latin America.
cash flow conversion ratio remained strong seeking a global partner for their packaging at 75%, and was boosted by a further requirements.
In addition, Clondalkin SPDs and over the course of Vision 2015 10bps improvement in underlying net complementary portfolio of folding carton, Back in 2011 when I joined the Company, working capital revenue.
Underpinned product literature and labels not only I said that I had found a business that by this strong cash flow generation, we broadens the range and innovation offered was essentially in good shape and doing again confirmed our commitment to to these targeted end-markets, but also many positive things, with an international paying a progressive dividend, with significantly enhances Essentras position footprint, leading market positions and a recommended increase in the FY 2014 in the growing personal care and beauty a loyal, experienced workforce: in essence, payout of 19%, to 18.3p per share.
a business that was solid, steady and stable.
At the same time, I stated that Consistent with our strategic objectives, Valued at approximately US$455m, the introduction of Vision 2015 represented we successfully completed a number of Clondalkin SPD is by far the largest a more ambitious strategy for the value-adding acquisitions to complement transaction we have undertaken to date, Company, looking to build on the positive the organic performance of the Company.
and the Board was very encouraged by features and values which I inherited, In Component & Protection Solutions, the support for the deal shown by the while rekindling an appetite for growth we undertook a number of attractive Companys major shareholders through behind key objectives and targets, and bolt-on transactions in 2014, which have their participation in the 9.99% placing of creating a more unified culture across the 6 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
In reviewing the Companys operating profit, a more disciplined permeate all levels of the Company are performance over the last three and a approach to the Companys financial neither easy to implement, nor always to half years, versus our objective of creating and fiscal positions has not only be a part of.
So, on behalf of the Board, sustainable long-term value for our contributed to us surpassing our at least I would like to recognise the efforts of all shareholders, and our strategic and double-digit adjusted earnings per share our employees in driving them through, operational priorities, the Board and growth objective with a CAGR of 19% : and embracing them as critical success the Group Management Committee together with a 390bps improvement in factors for the future growth and GMC believe that we have made our net working capital revenue ratio, it development of Essentra.
has similarly contributed to our cash conversion.
All of which has enabled Our new organisational structure: From the outset of Vision 2015, we us to fulfil our commitment to paying a join up, scale up, speed up have sought to reposition the business progressive dividend to shareholders, with As the Board and the GMC looked to to focus on revenue growth and with an average annual increase of 19% to the the future successful development the Company being a high volume aforementioned recommended level of of the Company beyond 2015, it was manufacturer, supplier and distributor 18.3p in 2014. clearly imperative that Essentra had of essential components looked to an organisational structure that was volume to be the key driver of our topOur primary strategic objective has appropriate to the delivery of our line performance.
In this respect, our been and, indeed, remains the creation strategic objectives.
compound annual growth rate CAGR of sustainable long-term value for our in revenue of 9% of which volume has shareholders.
In this respect, our total Although we have progressively been averaged c. 7% pa has demonstrated shareholder return since end-2010 has working more collaboratively over the a consistent ability to outperform our increased 230%.
This improvement has last couple of years, nonetheless being weighted average market growth rate seen us quadruple our market capitalisation organised purely along divisional lines still which we estimated at low to mid and improve our ranking in the FTSE index tended to encourage an ad hoc, piecemeal single-digit.
This is certainly approach, and an individual rather than a creditable performance: however, there Group-wide mentality.
Specifically, the At the same time, we have improved is more to do, and further opportunity to absence of a regional organisational the Group adjusted operating margin by realise as we move into the next phase of structure has meant that no one individual 110bps equating to a CAGR in adjusted Essentras growth and development.
or team of individuals has previously operating profit of 16%.
This increase in been responsible or accountable for driving absolute terms has partially been As we have previously noted, Vision 2015 Essentras overall performance in a impacted by the acquisitions which we has not merely been about financial particular country.
This was clearly not have undertaken during the period which performance: it has also been about our optimal and, at some point, would likely are typically, initially at least, at a lower people, and the strategic objective of have constrained our potential.
As such, margin than the Company average as creating a more unified Group culture.
the adoption of a more matrix structure well as the mix impact of the very high Indeed, talent and culture are arguably over the course of 2014 with the grouping revenue growth in the lower margin Filter the issues that many organisations cite of our activities into the three geographic Products division.
However, our volumeas being the most challenging to improve regions of Europe, Americas and Asia, driven revenue growth, together with and or change, and in this respect our supplementing the divisional structure rigorous control of our cost base, the Company being a collection of a number has been an important and logical step.
successful delivery of acquisition integration of operating brands with limited affiliation From a product perspective, the synergies and other savings initiatives, have to the Group when I joined it was a agreement to acquire Clondalkin SPD nonetheless fuelled a strong improvement particular case in point.
As such, our prompted a revision to the original in the profitability of the Company.
rebranding to Essentra represented a key intention to reorganise our divisions into milestone in our development not least two Strategic Business Units SBUs, Cash flow generation has equally been since, for the first time, it provided us with such that, with effect from January 2015, a key performance indicator where a single identity behind which to go to we are grouped into four.
Indeed, the over the course of Vision 2015 we have market in a more co-ordinated way.
This substantial increase in our health and averaged a conversion rate of 86%: this has opened up new growth opportunities, personal care packaging capabilities is notwithstanding that we have invested as well as facilitated the necessary combined with our offering to the over 150m of capital in future revenue organisational change to deliver our consumer goods and tobacco industries growth opportunities during the period.
strategic objectives beyond 2015 of which has warranted the creation of a separate In conjunction with the increase in more below.
Such changes which business unit which will also be responsible 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW for product development and support to While it is still clearly very early days Talent the Speciality Tapes business.
This latter to evaluate the impact, we are already At all levels, our employees are a vital operation combines with our Components encouraged by a number of examples resource in the Companys pursuit of and Security Card activities to form of the positive features of the new operational excellence and the provision Distribution, while the specialised solutions structure.
For example, in Pipe Protection of quality products and service to providers of Porous Technologies, Pipe Technologies which was already a leader our customers.
Protection Technologies and Extrusion in the Oil Country Tubular Goods market now come together as Specialist we have not only benefited from a Indeed, as an international organisation, Technologies.
Filter Products remains best-practice solution to certain capacity, it is important that we attract an as per our previous divisional structure, issues in Houston, US from the Americas appropriate level of local talent and although now incorporates the regional Operations team a positive enhance mobility through increasing development and product management challenge arising from the commercial cross-divisional moves.
In this respect, we of our e-cigarette range.
success of the business, but we have also made good progress during the year, not been able successfully to enter the sizeable only in terms of developing our existing In adopting our new organisational Brazilian energy market, thanks to the employees but also in adding to our structure, it has been imperative that it footprint which the overall Essentra Group talent base from outside the Company has not layered in additional bureaucracy, provides.
Separately, in Asia and with the and through our recent acquisitions.
and we are pleased to confirm that the exception of Filter Products our previous relevant changes have been cost-neutral, divisional approach had left Essentra At GMC level, we welcomed Gavin as anticipated.
Rather, the structure is significantly underweight in what are Leathem as Group Human Resources designed as a growth enabler which some of the worlds most sizeable and Director.
Gavin brings significant human will help to enhance focus, scale and fastest-growing opportunity markets.
resources experience to Essentra, and operational efficiency, and will allow us However, in the short space of time since will be responsible for developing and to offer customers the best of Essentra we introduced our regional structure, we strengthening the talent base at all not just the best of each division.
have already established a strategicallylevels of the Company.
In addition, Indeed, leveraging the collective skills located logistics hub in Changi, Singapore we filled the roles required by the new and capabilities of the entire Essentra to feed the entire region with products organisational structure not only on Group, our additional scale is already from all our businesses, and have plans the GMC, but also below with the making us more relevant to our in place for Asia to become the primary majority of appointments to the regional stakeholders not only to customers, sourcing and manufacturing location and SBU teams made during the first half but also to suppliers and as an employer: for the entire Essentra Group.
This timely recruitment has in turn, this will force us to better is to cite but two early wins, such hitherto proved instrumental to the successful understand the regional dynamics and untapped opportunities underscore the firm phasing of the implementation and requirements of our targeted end-markets.
belief in our ability to continue to deliver transition to the new structure.
At the same time, breaking down the value to shareholders notwithstanding traditional divisional boundaries should the progress we have already made under Responding to the growing risk which all facilitate broader thinking and better Vision 2015. companies face regarding cyber security transfer of skills both in terms of organic and Information Technology in general growth and acquisition opportunities we appointed a new Chief Information and the Board and GMC firmly believe Officer to the Group Leadership Team.
that our new organisational structure will provide a superior platform from which we can stretch our capabilities into adjacent business activities.
8 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM In 2014, we also launched a comprehensive The Board and the GMC are committed In introducing our Drive for 2020 strategy, talent management process, involving to ensuring that Essentra is a great place we have slightly amended our vision a global assessment of the base, the to work, and to ensure that we continue to statement to reflect that as a company development of competencies for various improve as an organisation, we launched we are still a work in progress.
As such, grades across the organisation and the Enable 2014 our second Group-wide our goal of building Essentra into a leading roll out of new Leadership Development employee engagement survey in provider of essential components and Centres.
The Development Centres were December.
Translated into 20 languages solutions reflects both our continued global held in all three geographical regions and distributed to c. 5,000 employees growth ambitions and acknowledges our during the year, and will continue in 2015. worldwide, the survey saw an excellent ability to provide our customers with In order to maintain and improve our 81% response rate.
Given the changes innovative solutions and services across internal fill rate for senior roles across which have been introduced under Vision a range of targeted end-markets, which the organisation, a quarterly review of 2015 from rebranding to the adoption of is not limited by material.
talent has been initiated as part of the our new organisational structure Enable new process.
2014 has been a key forum for employees As Essentra becomes larger, we need to to share their views and to help shape how elevate our ambition and broaden our The Essentra Graduate Development the Company develops in the future, so we thinking to deliver the next phase of our Programme enjoyed further success in confidently move forward to the next growth.
Accordingly, we need to continue 2014.
The two-year graduate programme phase of growth.
Naturally, there are areas the efforts which we have already started, has provided a talent pipeline for a for improvement, where action plans are to move from a product to a market and number of years and, in 2014, 21 people in the process of being agreed and will be category-focused model.
In this respect, joined the scheme which continues to implemented: however, it was particularly the aforementioned acquisition of expand its international reach.
The 2014 encouraging that a very high 80% of Clondalkin SPD is a compelling illustration.
intake will join the 15 graduates recruited respondents are proud to work for Essentra.
Until two years ago, our capabilities in in 2013, and will have the opportunity to pharmaceutical, health and personal develop their management skills through Drive for 2020 care packaging were limited, amounting bespoke training which takes place around As Essentra has become larger it to tear tape, labels and authentication Essentras sites, giving graduates exposure has been imperative that we continue technologies.
However, these endto the business while carrying out an to evolve in order to maximise the markets are very sizeable, with attractive, operational role from day one.
Separately, opportunities available to the Company.
long-term growth characteristics and in in September, the 2012 graduate intake At the same time, however, the model which Essentra had a low share.
Having completed their programme, with four of balanced, profitable growth which recognised the opportunity, we bolstered successful presentations hosted in we introduced with Vision 2015 has proven our category exposure first, through the Chicago, US.
Representatives from senior to be successful in terms of delivering acquisition of Contego Healthcare Limited management were invited to watch the value to our shareholders.
As a result, in Contego and Dakota Packaging graduate teams drawn from across formulating the strategy to take Essentra Limited Dakota in 2013, and we functions and geographies present on forward over the next five years, the Board are now globalising our footprint with projects focusing on rebranding, high and the GMC were concerned to ensure Clondalkin SPD.
As a result, our product performance culture, new product that it was more a case of evolution range has been expanded to include development and competitor analysis.
than revolution, maintaining the core folding carton, leaflets and foils for philosophy of Vision 2015 while flexing blister packs: healthcare packaging certain aspects to ensure that we accounted for some 40% 2014 revenue focus our efforts on those activities on a pro forma basis: and we have which genuinely make a difference become the global number two supplier to a growing organisation.
to a range of blue-chip customers.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW This diversification whether undertaken successfully rolled out, to facilitate As Essentra continues to increase in size organically or via M&A is precisely the best-practice sharing and cultural both organically and via acquisition sort of bold thinking which Drive for 2020 change, in conjunction with a shop-floor and the global legislative backdrop for entails, and which the Board and GMC Stop, Think, Evaluate, Proceed STEP HSE continues to change apace, the believe Essentra needs to embrace to programme.
Taken together, these Board and the GMC are convinced ensure we continue to deliver value to initiatives have led to a shift in focus from that this regional approach will allow our shareholders.
Of course, this is not to accident reporting to risk identification, the Company to make continuous ignore our more specialised capabilities in as a result of which our lost time accident improvement in this critical area.
which we have considerable expertise and rate has decreased.
hold very strong market shares: however, Reinforcing our responsibilities we cannot simply focus our efforts on During the year, we also introduced a new Essentra is committed to the highest such areas as on their own they will HSE awards scheme, progressing from the standards of corporate governance and not necessarily present the Group with previous approach of recognising sites with responsibility, to ensure that the way in the sort of scaleable global opportunities low accident rates alone to one which now which we manage our activities reflects which we are seeking to exploit in the better acknowledges cultural change, the expectations of all the Companys future.
In re-iterating our objective of hazard spotting and HSE initiatives in stakeholders.
As a member of both the delivering at least mid single-digit organic addition.
As such, the objective of the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, revenue growth with the aspiration of new programme is to reward employees we recognise that our interaction with doubling the size of the Company through and facilities which have achieved or are the environment and local communities 2020 the premise is that we will continue progressing towards world class levels of is a critical component of the international to outperform our underlying markets on performance, including the development, reputation and quality of Essentras a consistent basis: evidently, this is a more sustainment and continuous improvement businesses, as well as a cornerstone realistic proposition if we prioritise larger of a positive and supportive HSE culture.
of developing a responsible, progressive end-markets and opportunities.
Recognising this, the strategic priorities The Chief Executives Award for which we have set for the next five years Improved & Sustained Operational Safety All our principal manufacturing facilities to facilitate this goal are: operating as Performance recognises and rewards sites hold the ISO 14001 environmental One Essentra Group, creating synergies which have significantly improved and accreditation and, with the exception across regions and functions: becoming sustained high levels of reactive and of recently-acquired sites which, as more relevant to customers and increasing proactive key performance indicators.
per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 market penetration: managing and The GMC was pleased to award this to months to reach the required standard, upgrading the portfolio: driving operational our site in Thailand, for demonstrating they have also achieved the Occupational excellence: and developing a global talent a step change in HSE culture as well as Health & Safety Management Systems base and high performance culture.
achieving a very low accident rate.
As anticipated in 2014, our Filter Products joint venture facility in Continuing to build on our track We have also introduced an Award for Dubai, UAE attained ISO 14001 and OHSAS record in health and safety a Specific Improvement Best Practice 18001 accreditation, with the Components Essentras overriding concern in the Project, for implementing a unique process site in Turkey also achieving the latter workplace continues to be the health, of system that has reduced will reduce certification.
In addition, both Reinbek safety and welfare of all its employees or eliminate a specific risk.
In assessing and Wolfen, Germany gained ISO 50001 and those who visit the Companys site applications, the ease of sharing the status during the year.
Attaining the ISO locations, as well as those who carry project around the Essentra Group is a 50001 energy management standard at out work on our behalf.
In 2014, this award all our manufacturing facilities is a key was presented to our healthcare objective, where we now intend to meet In 2014, the recently-adopted regional packaging facility in Dublin, Ireland the more stringent conditions required leadership structure helped to drive for the priority given to HSE and to gain a single Group-wide certificate further improvements in the HSE improved ergonomics in addition to by the end of 2016. standards which the Company has efficiency as part of an engineering already achieved.
A Group-wide HSE project to reconfigure the production area.
management system, ESHAM, was 10 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2014 | WWW.
COM Essentra is committed to energy efficiency within the organisation, and we have continued to improve our performance on this front: at the same time, we have also further reduced the environmental impact of our business in other aspects, with our War on Waste initiative continuing to deliver better utilisation and reuse of raw materials across the Company.
In summary In the final 12 months of Vision 2015, we continued to successfully deliver our strategic objectives in 2014.
In addition, we also made important organisational changes through the introduction of a regional structure to supplement our existing product-based reporting lines, to ensure that we are optimally positioned to continue generating balanced, profitable growth beyond 2015 under our new Drive for 2020 strategy.
In delivering these results and implementing these changes, I would like to acknowledge the efforts of all our employees, and to thank them for their continued dedication and commitment.
Outlook Essentra is provided with a degree of defensiveness in an environment in which economic growth is by no means well-established or uniform, thanks to its international footprint and diverse range of products and end-markets.
As a result, we are well-positioned to continue our track record of balanced, profitable growth in 2015, and to begin our Drive for 2020 strategy on a strong note.
COLIN DAY Chief Executive 20 February 2015 11
