Chief Executive Officers Review Alexander Frolov Fast changing market conditions provide value creating opportunities for EVRAZ.
06 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Business Review Governance Financial Statements Dear shareholder, In 2014, EVRAZ continued to work on 2014 US$100million, improving yields and 2014 year was a dynamic year, typified streamlining its business.
In April, we sold reduced raw material costs at our steel mills by significant change within the various our operations in the Czech Republic, EVRAZ US$92million and a reduction in headcount geographies, product markets and parts Vitkovice Steel, for US$287million.
At the and related G&A costs US$80million.
of the value chain in which EVRAZ operates.
same time, we finalised the ramp-up of Despite the considerable progress made During this period we maintained our Raspadskaya, transforming our coal business already, we are pursuing new initiatives which conviction to our previously stated strategy, into a large scale market participant in Russia have the potential to make an impact similar and due to the fundamental strength of our and internationally.
Naturally we benefited business model, we were resilient to the from the devaluation of the Russian rouble external headwinds.
In September 2014, we announced our which substantially reduced the cash costs of plan and consequently filed a registration our Russian operations in US dollar terms.
As a result EVRAZ has been able to capitalise statement with the U. S. Securities and on some favourable market developments: Exchange Commission relating to the In 2014, EVRAZ further extended its portfolio notably the rouble devaluation which further proposed initial public offering IPO of high value-added products and enhanced strengthened our low cost position in the of ordinary shares in our North American the quality of its customer service.
For global steel and coking coal markets.
subsidiary, EVRAZ North America plc.
instance, at our modernised rolling mills in Furthermore, the challenge of a volatile price We continue to actively monitor the capital Russia we can now produce rails and railway environment for the industry in general markets but cannot assure you when or if wheels, the world class quality of which has allowed EVRAZ to demonstrate the flexibility an IPO will be completed.
been proven by receipt of a number of quality certifications from the EU and the USA amongst others.
EVRAZ has also become the first Russian producer of 100-metre rails.
Our strategy is based on the particular competitive We have launched a new customer advantages of our business.
relationship management system CRM for our clients, which has migrated the purchase and tracking processes online and significantly improved efficiency.
The Russian of our business by switching steel volumes EVRAZs capex in 2014 amounted to market remains extremely important for our between markets on a monthly basis.
Due US$654million, down from US$902million business and we continue to closely monitor to our low cost operations we were able to in 2013.
Most of the capex was spent on recent developments.
In the meantime we achieve healthy margins in the key markets sustaining current capacities, while retain some flexibility to re-allocate sales where we operate.
Importantly, a strong US$211million was used for projects aimed from the Russian market to South East Asia.
operational performance and solid free cash either at increasing production or decreasing Our customer focus and sales expertise has flow led to a reduction in financial leverage.
The most important projects were the brought about this flexibility and we are commissioning of the pulverised coal injection planning to increase further our capabilities PCI system at EVRAZ ZSMK remaining in selling high value-added products in these Safety capex in 2014 was US$24million, the new markets in the year ahead.
The safety of our employees remains a Mezhegey coking coal deposit development priority for EVRAZ.
In 2014, we successfully US$41million and reconstruction of Operational results reduced LTIFR from 1.96 to 1.60 following Evrazrudas Sheregesh mine US$19million.
sustained efforts and investment in this area The efficacy of our strategy was underlined We are committed to investing in projects in recent years.
Tragically, we did not however by the strong operating results achieved by from our wide project portfolio, and our manage to prevent 19 fatal accidents at our EVRAZs business units in 2014. selected projects will achieve a rate of return facilities during the year.
We are committed that will significantly exceed our current cost to achieving the target of zero fatalities and In Russia, we significantly lowered cash of capital.
Though not all of these projects continue with range of initiatives to further costs at our steelmaking operations at will be realised, we are confident that they improve EVRAZs safety performance.
EVRAZ ZSMK and EVRAZ NTMK, where will allow us to preserve our core competitive slab production cash costs decreased by advantages and also provide a level of capex more than 25% in 2014, from US$367 t to Strategy flexibility which is appropriate in the current, US$275 t. The launch of the PCI technology Fast changing market conditions provide uncertain market environment.
at EVRAZ ZSMK was one of the factors which value creating opportunities for EVRAZ.
led to this result, having already provided a Our actions to reduce costs and improve US$6 t cash cost reduction of crude steel.
Our strategy is based on five development operational performance have had a Further sustained improvements are principles covering: Health, Safety and significant positive impact on overall anticipated in future years.
Environment: Human Capital: Customer performance during the year.
To facilitate Focus: EVRAZ Business System: and Growth.
assessment of performance, by management Despite increased competition in the Russian EVRAZ also benefits from a strong asset and the Board, our cost saving targets and construction market, we operated our rolling base and unique value drivers including: quantification are based on management mills at close to full capacity due to strong large, long life reserves in iron ore accounts adjusted to eliminate domestic demand for most of the year and and coal: macroeconomic impacts such as exchange substitution of decreased imports from competitive and efficient Russian steel rate fluctuations and inflation and once-off Ukraine.
The launch of our new rebar rolling making operations: expenditure such as employee severance mill in Kazakhstan looks particularly attractive a full range of products with leading payments and other discontinuation costs.
and will help to satisfy demand in this countrys market positions in the Russian On this basis there has been a cost growing domestic market whilst also enabling construction long steel market: improvement of US$420 million during the EVRAZ to maintain sales volumes in Russia.
global leadership in the rail production year.
The major contributors to this market with leading positions in Russia achievement were: the effects of the asset and the United States: and portfolio optimisation realised in 2013 and a strong footprint in North America.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 Chief Executive Officers Review continued 2014 was an important year for our railway Financial results Outlook products operations.
We successfully expanded The net loss for 2014 was US$1,278million.
2015 started with a substantial decrease both the product range and geographic markets This reflects exchange losses of in global steel prices, combined with a for products from our new rail mill at EVRAZ US$1,005million including US$265million difficult situation in the Russian economy ZSMK: producing 530,000tonnes in 2014 with on intercompany balances resulting from and a lower level of drilling activity in the U. S. a planned production increase of 800,000 the devaluation of the Russian rouble and and Canada.
However, we believe that the tonnes in 2015.
Ukrainian hryvnia, as well as a loss of actions taken by EVRAZ in recent years have US$588million on swaps of roublepositioned the Company to be resilient during The increase in coal production of 11% denominated bonds.
The compensating credit challenging periods and even to discover new during the year was due to significant from the swaps is netted against the loss opportunities from amongst these challenges.
production growth at the Raspadskaya coal on translation in Comprehensive Income.
As a result, we believe that EVRAZ will company 31%.
The increase followed the In addition, the net loss of US$1,278million continue to create value for its shareholders.
successful ramp-up of the Raspadskaya mine Events after the reporting period On 31 March 2015 the Board reviewed the positive financial performance of the Company We believe that the actions taken and improved business prospects for 2015. by EVRAZ in recent years have positioned the Company In view of strong positive cash flow and the liquidity to service debt and meet 2015 to be resilient during challenging periods.
maturities, as well as the reduced 2016 debt redemption requirement, the Board resolved to announce a return of capital to be effected by a tender offer to shareholders at $3.10 per and stable production at the Yuzhkuzbassugol includes a charge on impairment of assets share in the amount of up to $375 million.
coal company, despite the closure of its of US$540million.
The Board is satisfied that this is consistent Abashevskaya mine this year.
We have also with its continuing commitment to further reached record shipments of 5.6million At the same time, thanks to the solid reductions in the Companys EBITDA net tonnes of coal per annum at our Nakhodka operational results and positive developments leverage.
As noted above, this will be achieved sea port in the Russian Far East underlining in certain markets EVRAZ was able to by strong free cash flow generation, reflecting our ability to export significant volumes to demonstrate significant growth in operating further operational gains and optimised Asian markets.
profitability during the year as EBITDA capital expenditure.
reached US$2,325million, an almost 2014 was a turning point for the global iron 28% improvement compared to 2013.
With the approved buyback tender offer ore industry as the anticipated oversupply the Company remains committed to further caused prices to drop by 30%.
We had Accompanied by lower capex and a positive reduction of its net leverage.
prepared for these developments and began cash flow from divestitures this generated to restructure our iron ore business in 2013. positive free cash flow leading to a Your sincerely, As a result, we entered todays low price decrease in net debt from US$6.5 billion environment with a comfortable cash cost to US$5.8billion.
As a result our current of US$47 per tonne of iron ore concentrate.
leverage is below our strategic goal of 3 times net debt EBITDA.
Healthy demand and EVRAZ North Americas disciplined execution of its commercial and In 2014, the devaluation of the functional operating strategies resulted in sales currencies of our Russian and Ukrainian Alexander Frolov increasing by 11% for ongoing operations.
subsidiaries led to a significant decline in the In particular, production of tubular products net equity of EVRAZ as defined by accounting increased by 14% year-on-year driven by standards.
It was caused by translating strong market demand for small diameter assets, whose book values reflect historical pipe most of the year, positive market trends costs in the functional currencies Russian for large diameter pipe and operational rouble, Ukrainian hryvnia, using the current improvements implemented at North 31 December 2014 presentation currency American tubular facilities.
A more detailed discussion is provided in the Financial Review section of the Report.
08 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
