28 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement Experian delivered another year of good growth, underscoring the strength of our portfolio, and we made further strategic progress as we concentrated investment in key growth areas.
Organic revenue growth of 5% from continuing activities.
Full year dividend of 37.50 US cents per share, up 8%.
Don Robert Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Chief Executives statement 29 P38 Total revenue growth from continuing We have seen improving momentum in Strategic and operational review activities was 7% at constant currency the UK, where we have placed significant Let me focus on specific highlights for the and organic revenue growth was emphasis on increasing the data depth year and comment on our future direction: 5% H1 6%, H2 5%.
We saw further of the bureau.
This helps to open up new progress in EBIT margins, which rose Credit Services market opportunities, enables greater by 30 basis points to 27.4%, with EBIT levels of innovation and ultimately creates We delivered good revenue growth in rising 8% at constant currencies.
ever greater competitive distinction for Credit Services, up 5% organically.
Actual revenue and EBIT growth were Experian.
Overall, we feel well placed With confidence gradually returning to 4% and 5% respectively, including the as confidence and investment return to the retail lending sector, the core bureau contribution from recent acquisitions, the UK economy.
Meanwhile, in EMEA P34 in North America performed well.
While P40 offset by negative currency translation Asia Pacific, we have acted to strengthen declines in the US mortgage market effects.
Benchmark EPS increased to our operations in parts of Continental held back growth somewhat, lenders 91.7 US cents per share, up 8% at actual Europe, with good results, and we are are generally prospecting more for new exchange rates.
fully engaged in building positive data credit customers.
We are also benefiting in Australia, following the enactment of Notable highlights include: as we steadily reduce our dependency on regulations in March.
financial services and raise our exposure We grew across all four regions, with Decision Analytics to faster-growing market segments.
organic revenue growth of 7% in Latin I am delighted with progress in Decision We took a significant step in this America, 7% in the UK and Ireland, regard with the acquisition of Passport Analytics, which returned to strong 4% in North America and 2% in revenue growth, up 10% organically.
Health Communications Passport EMEA Asia Pacific.
which, combined with our existing For some time now, we have been We also grew across all four operations, makes us the leader in US investing in our products and flexing our global business lines, with organic healthcare revenue cycle management, infrastructure with the aim of creating a revenue growth of 10% in Decision a highly attractive market.
Passport has more sustainable, high-growth Decision Analytics, 5% in Credit Services, 5% performed well since acquisition, as Analytics business.
We have made in Consumer Services and 1% in described in more detail below.
considerable advances, positioning us Marketing Services.
Macro-economically, it was a challenging well for the future.
PowerCurve, our new Cash generation was a particular P36 flagship credit risk management software, year in Latin America, particularly in highlight, as we converted 101% of Brazil.
That said, it is gratifying to note has met with worldwide success, and we EBIT into operating cash, resulting will continue the roll-out over the coming that our bureaux in the region were in a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.27 collectively the fastest growing in the year.
Fraud and identity management times, from a peak of over 2.5 times increasingly represents a new dimension Experian portfolio.
During the year we in November 2013. strengthened our operations in Brazil, to our business, and has been pivotal in opening up a new set of opportunities stepping up our ability to grow through We made significant strategic P34 new products, new clients, new verticals in new client segments such as the US progress, as we concentrate our public sector.
We are investing further in and by deploying services which straddle efforts across key growth initiatives.
And while the World analytics, meeting demand from clients We are placing significant emphasis for sophisticated tools to help them deal Cup poses specific challenges in H1, we on fraud and identity management, are well placed to continue to expand with their big data challenges.
Finally, I we are becoming increasingly should note the particular success we in Brazil and across the region over the focused on a select number of P40 medium term.
have met with in EMEA Asia Pacific industry verticals and we are which, in response to previous actions, sharpening our operations in our recovered during the year.
We also raised our full year dividend by 8% to 37.50 US cents per share.
30 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement continued Marketing Services Since April 2010 we have been restricted Progress of acquisitions in our ability to market our free brands.
While organic revenue growth in I am pleased to report good progress At the time, we elected to discontinue Marketing Services was just 1%, we across our two most recent acquisitions, advertising our freecreditreport.
com brand have made significant strategic progress Passport and 41st Parameter.
These in response to new rules issued by the US as we increasingly integrate and bundle acquisitions respectively boost our market Federal Trade Commission and to focus our products for clients.
positions in healthcare payment services our investment on other brands, including Marketers are facing a world in which and in fraud and identity management, Experian.
Without the benefit of two of the most promising initiatives to consumers seamlessly switch between ongoing advertising, our free brand media and devices, driving greater need have emerged from our global growth membership base has gradually eroded.
Pro forma revenue growth for marketing campaigns that are more Earlier this year, we noted that we are personalised and co-ordinated across across the two acquired entities has been shifting our marketing efforts away strong in the period since acquisition, and many channels.
Experian is one of the from the free brands and putting few companies in the world that can we have laid solid foundations from which our investment behind our strongest to deliver against the respective acquisition bring together the data, data quality, brand, Experian.
com, where we have analytics and cross-channel marketing buy plans during the coming year.
tremendous recognition and brand services to help marketers do their jobs We completed the acquisition of Passport loyalty.
We are now taking further steps more effectively.
This suite is increasingly in November 2013.
We have had a strong to accelerate the move into the Experian resonating in the market, and we have a start, with the business performing well.
brand, where response from consumers growing pipeline of opportunities across We were pleased to secure a broad range has been encouraging.
of new business wins in the quarter in Experian.
com is not yet of sufficient Consumer Services ending 31 March 2014, including new size to fully offset attrition rates in the free hospital and physician practice clients, as In Consumer Services, where revenue portfolio, and revenues in North America well as new sales into the existing client grew 5% organically, we had a record year Consumer Services declined in the fourth base.
The integration of Passport and in the UK, as the business moved from quarter of the year.
We expect this to Experian Healthcare has also gone well, strength to strength, but we faced some continue in the first half of FY15, before as we have aligned the leadership team, challenges in North America.
improving later in the year as we reach a combined the salesforces and determined tipping point for the Experian.
P34 We continue to evolve our business our core product focus.
model in North America, diversifying Our affinity business continues to build We acquired 41st Parameter in October and expanding into new areas.
Our and now represents c. 20% of North 2013.
Since that time we have signed 20 strategy is focused on a number of America Consumer Services revenue.
The new clients to the business and we have key elements, including: dynamics of the affinity model where we been successful in securing a number of provide white-label consumer services building on our leading position in cross-sell opportunities, where existing for large business-to-business clients the affinity channel: Experian clients have adopted 41st are highly attractive, since contracts Parameter products.
This has included building on Experians market-leading are typically long term in nature and the the sale of 41st Parameter into an existing position in business-to-business data lifetime value of consumer relationships is identity management agreement with a breach services: higher than in other parts of our business.
US public sector agency, for example.
Over the past year we have been positioning the Experian.
com successful in securing new multimillion Margin progression brand as the trusted brand for dollar affinity contract wins, which will consumers: and We delivered good progress in EBIT benefit the business over the coming year.
margin during the year, up 30 basis changing the way consumers Our pipeline of future opportunities also points to 27.4%.
interact with their personal data, continues to be strong.
We have also seen by enhancing the user experience good success in data breach services, as EBIT margins in Credit Services with new tools and features.
we leverage the strength of the Experian improved, reflecting revenue brand and our superior product offering.
growth, net of a ramp-up in These are important steps which investment in the Australian credit will strengthen our offerings in the These developments provide increasing bureau and higher regulatoryfuture and which position us strongly levels of balance and diversity in North related expenditure in the US.
America Consumer Services and a strong platform from which to expand Decision Analytics EBIT margins in the future.
were broadly flat, as revenue growth was offset by margin dilution from 41st Parameter.
Strategic report How Experian helps: US healthcare payments 31 US healthcare payments Your babys arrival is a special time in your life.
The last thing you need is uncertainty about your finances Youve decorated the nursery, bought the baby clothes Based on your financial circumstances, the counsellor suggests and your doctor has booked your hospital stay.
an instalment plan that spreads the cost over the next six months.
It wont put too big a dent in your Two weeks before your due date, the hospital calls you.
Its a finances, especially as youll be down to just one income after patient counsellor, who wants to welcome you as a new patient the baby arrives.
and discuss some administrative details.
She checks your name and insurance number, and confirms that you plan to stay in the Two days later, you receive your welcome pack from the hospital, postnatal wing for two days after the birth.
which includes a statement showing your estimated financial responsibility.
You check the details and everything is clear and The counsellor runs through the likely charges youll have to understandable.
Great, one less thing to worry about.
The hospitals system links directly to your insurance provider, so the counsellor double-checks these charges while youre on the phone.
How Experian helps In the US, our healthcare payments service provides data and software to physician practices and hospitals, helping to simplify the administrative process, and helping to give you the transparency you need with your healthcare payment obligations.
32 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement continued EBIT margins in Marketing Services be paid on 25 July 2014 to shareholders Today, we are announcing that our Chief improved, largely as a result of cost on the register at the close of business on Operating Officer, Chris Callero, has actions taken during the year, and 27 June 2014.
Net share purchases during decided to retire from the Board at the notwithstanding revenue contraction the year amounted to US$371m, of which conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in Latin America and the wind-down of approximately US$180m was the cost of on 16 July 2014.
Chris joined Experian a large marketing contract in EMEA.
in 2002 and has made an immense contribution to the development of the Consumer Services EBIT margins Our priority over the coming year will Group, particularly as it expanded from its contracted, reflecting increased be to return to our target net debt to roots in the UK and the US to become the marketing and customer acquisition EBITDA range of 1.75 to 2.0 times.
We global business it is today.
We owe Chris expenditure in support of the brand expect to achieve this during the year a deep debt of gratitude for his significant transition in North America.
ending 31 March 2015, subject to future achievements on behalf of the Group.
Our target dividend We absorbed adverse translational payout ratio is unchanged at 40% and Chris will be succeeded as Chief foreign exchange movements, caused we expect to make share repurchases Operating Officer by Kerry Williams, principally by the depreciation of the only in respect of employee share plan who will take up his new position and Brazilian real relative to the US dollar.
awards which vest in the year.
join the Board as an executive director Cash flow and net debt following Chriss retirement at the People Annual General Meeting.
Kerry joined Cash generation during the year was very On 16 January 2014, Experians Board Experian North America in 2003 and was strong, and we converted 101% of EBIT announced my appointment to succeed subsequently promoted to lead our Credit into operating cash flow, significantly as Chairman of Experian, following Sir Services operations globally.
Last year exceeding our target of 90% conversion.
I am deeply Kerry was appointed as President of our Net debt levels increased during the honoured to have been chosen and am Latin America region and most recently year, rising by US$871m to US$3,809m greatly looking forward to taking up my assumed the post of Deputy Chief at 31 March 2014, primarily reflecting new role.
At the same time, the Board Operating Officer for Experian.
Kerry has the acquisitions of Passport and 41st announced that Brian Cassin will be immense experience and deep knowledge Parameter.
We made good progress appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Experians businesses across the world, with regard to the efficiency of capital which I am certain will be of significant and George Rose will become Deputy expenditure, and our capital expenditure Chairman and Senior Independent benefit to the Group in the future.
to revenue ratio reduced to 8.3% 2013: Director.
The net debt to EBITDA gearing Finally, I would like to take this effective from 16 July 2014, following our opportunity to thank everyone in ratio was 2.27 times at 31 March 2014, Annual General Meeting.
Sir John Peace having peaked at over 2.5 times in Experian for their dedication over the and Sir Alan Rudge will retire from the year.
Experian is a people business November 2013 following the acquisition Board at the conclusion of that meeting.
and its achievements are down to their enthusiasm, creativity and sheer On 29 April 2014, we also announced the Dividend and capital appointment of Lloyd Pitchford as Chief hard work.
I would like to express my management gratitude for their ongoing support Financial Officer and as an executive director of Experian and the appointment and commitment to the success of For the year ended 31 March 2014, we are the business.
announcing a second interim dividend of of Jan Babiak as a new independent nonexecutive director.
Lloyd and Jan will bring 26.00 US cents per share.
This gives a full year dividend of 37.50 US cents per share, a great deal of experience to Experian and I am delighted to welcome them both.
The second interim dividend will I would like to pay tribute to Sir John Peace, on the eve of his retirement as Chairman.
It is true to say that without Sir Johns passion and energy Experian would not be the global leader it is today.
From the earliest days of its formation, Sir John has driven the business to ever greater achievements.
His great foresight, leadership and gritty determination forged Experian into the business it is today.
His ethos and passion will, I am certain, live on in the business for many years to come.
2013 restated for the movement of some small businesses in Latin America and EMEA Asia Pacific to discontinuing activities and for further costs within Central Activities.
Discontinuing activities comprise small discontinuing businesses in Latin America and EMEA Asia Pacific.
See the Financial review for analysis of revenue, EBIT and EBIT margin by business segment and note 7 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
Income statement and earnings analysis 1 2014 2013 US$m US$m EBIT from continuing operations 1,306 1,251 Net interest 74 62 Benchmark PBT 1,232 1,189 Exceptional items 54 66 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition intangibles 131 123 Impairment of goodwill 15 Acquisition expenses 10 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 1 Financing fair value remeasurements 27 561 Profit before tax 1,049 434 Group tax charge 302 151 Profit after tax from continuing operations 747 283 Benchmark EPS US cents 91.7 85.2 Basic EPS for continuing operations US cents 76.1 24.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million 980 988 1.
2013 restated for further costs within Central Activities and a higher interest charge as a result of the adoption of IAS 19 revised.
