Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Chief Executive Officers Review A year of further progress by AEP and a resilient performance by ECS Nicholas Hobson Chief Executive Officer against those of 2013 and earlier years.
expenditure on technology and people to Dear Shareholder Because of this, we have - at appropriate places support future growth.
In our financial year to 31 August 2014, in this report - also presented our 2014 results revenue was 729.4m 2013: 820.6m, Third, the ECS division produced a result against 2013 comparatives on a constant underlying operating profit was 79.5m 2013: below last years, which primarily reflects currency basis which we believe gives a better 101.5m and underlying profit before taxation difficult trading conditions in the USA and understanding of our underlying performance.
In the USA, sentiment within the taxation was 29.2m 2013: 66.4m restated : Second, I am delighted to report another coal mining industry was cautious in the first this included net exceptional charges of encouraging performance by AEP, with half of the year and deteriorated in the second 19.7m 2013: nil.
Underlying earnings per revenue, when measured on a constant half, whereas in Australia, ECS faced share was 23.3p 2013: 30.1p.
currency basis, reaching a new record.
Those increased price pressure from its mining AEP businesses which serve the oil & gas customers as they sought to offset the impact Our results, which are set out in more detail industry, such as CDI, EGC and Mandals, all of lower commodity prices.
In response, ECS in the table below, reflect three key factors.
performed notably well, and other AEP took steps across its business to reduce costs First, with the great majority of the Groups businesses, including Secant and Fenner and increase operational flexibility in order to revenue and profits generated in overseas Drives, also delivered good results.
The slight reposition the business on a footing which is currencies, the strength of sterling over the fall in the profit reported by AEP reflects our stronger and more appropriate to the current period reduced our 2014 reported results decision, announced last year, to increase state of its markets.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 5 Chief Executive Officers Review continued indicators, including coals share of total in the world, extracted record amounts of Engineered Conveyor Solutions electricity generation and falls in electricity material, mainly for the export market.
In 2014, ECS generated revenue of 463.9m generators coal stocks.
These led to Globally, growth in the supply of these 2013: 549.8m, a reduction of 16 per cent, expectations that a recovery in the coal mining commodities was faster than the growth in and an underlying operating profit of 45.7m industry, and consequently in the demand for demand, leading to falls in their prices on 2013: 63.0m, a reduction of 27 per cent.
On belt, would take place during the second half international markets.
a constant currency basis, revenue fell by 8 of our financial year.
However, this did not per cent and underlying operating profit fell by ECSs trading conditions have become more materialise and instead ECSs trading 21 per cent.
challenging as the potential benefit on the conditions deteriorated.
demand for belting product and services from Underlying operating margin was 9.9 per cent In response to this difficult trading higher commodity extraction has been offset 2013: 11.5 per cent.
environment, ECS has been working with its by increased focus by ECSs Australian In terms of regions, the Americas, principally customers in the US coal mining industry to customers on all aspects of their costs, the USA, generated 39 per cent of the reduce their belting costs through, for including more frequent and vigorous redivisions revenue and Asia Pacific, principally example, re-configuring their belting systems.
tendering processes for the supply of belting Australia, accounted for 41 per cent of As described in the case study below, ECS has products and services.
Europe, Middle East and Africa was also taken action to reduce its own costs and In this environment, ECS has worked hard to responsible for the remaining 20 per cent.
increase the operational flexibility of its increase efficiency and reduce costs in all manufacturing and servicing activities.
Americas aspects of its operations, the benefit of which In 2014, revenue was 179.5m 2013: Sales of belt to other mining and industrial has been shared with its customers.
As part customers in the USA and elsewhere in North 232.6m, a decrease of 23 per cent 18 per of these measures, ECSs skilled workforce, America held up better, reflecting generally cent at constant currencies.
particularly within its value-added service improved economic conditions.
business, has become more flexible in the The USA remains the largest single market for ways it responds to customer requirements, ECS continued to develop its business in South ECS with the majority of revenue being derived including an enhanced ability to switch America, where it is focused on the growing from the coal industry.
The volume of coal between different mining regions.
copper mining industry in Chile.
However, the produced in the USA was slightly less than the regions contribution to Group results was previous year and domestic prices for thermal Also during the year, reductions in capital reduced by the depreciation of the Chilean coal remained soft.
In addition to these expenditure by Australian mines led to ECSs peso against international currencies.
factors, sentiment in the industry was also sales of belting products and services for new negatively impacted by low prices for coal in capacity being reduced from the levels seen in Asia Pacific previous years which particularly impacted the export markets and by uncertainty over the US In 2014, revenue was 191.5m 2013: governments policy towards the coal industry.
relatively small part of ECSs business which 223.2m, a decrease of 14 per cent 3 per Furthermore, capacity issues on certain is focused on this segment of the market.
railroads led to instances of disruption in the We continue to see Australia as a long-term ECSs business in Asia Pacific, which is supply of coal to some users.
winner in the global mining industry and, predominantly located in Australia, generated Throughout the year, US coal miners reduced through providing an excellent service to our revenues only slightly reduced from last year customers, we intend to maintain and develop profitability and generally weak sentiment led when measured in constant currency terms, our market leadership there.
to deferrals of belt servicing and replacement but operating profit and margins were lower with an apparent increased willingness which mainly reflected less favourable trading Elsewhere in Asia Pacific, ECS had a much amongst miners to run belts closer to the conditions in the key Australian market.
improved result in China, with increased sales point of failure, whilst stocks of belt held by of high-performance belt for critical In Australia, ECS is the established market mines against planned future use and as applications in underground coal mining.
In leader, having, over the years, made contingency against failure also reduced.
India, where ECS has a smaller business, there significant investments in its manufacturing Corporate activity amongst mine owners was a reduced result, reflecting less favourable facilities and in building a value-added service provided an additional incentive for mines to trading conditions in the local market.
During the year, ECSs mining defer belt maintenance.
customers in Australia, which include some of During the spring, there were favourable the largest and lowest cost producers of movements in various key US energy industry thermal coal, metallurgical coal and iron ore Case study ECS responding to challenging market conditions in the US coal industry Throughout the year, ECS has taken steps to ECS has also developed Flexible Resource ensure that the belt manufacturing and Centres as an alternative to the traditional style servicing resources that it employs match of service branch which is assisting ECS to enter levels of demand.
This is a part of the continuing new service markets.
and complex task of increasing efficiency and The measures taken in the USA reflect those reducing costs across its business.
For example, in In the USA, ECS has retained its network of Australia, service centres have been manufacturing facilities but, in consultation amalgamated and service engineers have with its employees and their representatives, it moved between the east coast and west coast has restructured its manufacturing workforce according to customer requirements.
In the UK, workforce flexibility was demonstrated by ECSs through headcount reductions, short-time working and the introduction of more flexible response to a slowdown in demand from customers in Russia and Ukraine.
On the service side, certain branches have been closed or amalgamated to reduce costs.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 6 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results support future growth.
Underlying operating Hallite seals for fluid power achieved higher Europe, Middle East & Africa EMEA margin was 15.9 per cent 2013: 17.3 per cent.
revenue in constant currency terms, as its In 2014, revenue was 92.9m 2013: 94.0m, a decrease of 1 per cent increase of 5 per North American businesses increased sales As anticipated, the second half of the year saw to customers in construction-related cent at constant currencies.
a strong performance, with an underlying industries, although sales to customers During the year, significant progress was made operating margin in the second half of supplying equipment into the coal mining in some of our newer markets, for example in 18 per cent.
industry were generally less favourable.
building up ECSs service business in Africa The decision was taken to close Hallites The share of AEPs revenue accounted for by and the Middle East.
However, the result for unprofitable business in Brazil.
customers in the oil & gas industry and by our the year was held back by unfavourable trading medical businesses continued to grow and AIP precision machined polymer conditions in other parts of EMEA.
reached 42 per cent 2013: 40 per cent for the components saw a strengthening Encouragingly, ECS has continued to gain year as a whole.
performance as the year progressed.
It also market share in north and west Africa and the finished the year with an enhanced pipeline of AEP is organised into three product groups: Middle East, with a number of major service products with applications across the oil & Advanced Sealing Technologies which contracts now in place, supported by a gas, power generation and medical industries.
generated 52 per cent of AEPs revenue in progressive build-up in the number of service 2014 : Precision Polymers 38 per cent : and Precision Polymers engineers.
ECSs result in South Africa Solesis Medical Technologies 10 per cent.
reflected difficult conditions in the mining Precision Polymers produces high valueadded components, principally belts and industry, caused by lower global commodity Advanced Sealing Technologies hoses, for niche industrial markets.
In 2014, prices and national industrial unrest.
However, Advanced Sealing Technologies, the largest Africa and the Middle East continue to be seen revenue was 99.6m 2013: 99.0m, an product group within AEP, designs and increase of 1 per cent 6 per cent at constant as target areas for further growth in the future.
manufactures performance-critical seals for currencies.
use in oil & gas and fluid power applications.
Sales in Europe were generally subdued, In 2014, revenue was 138.2m 2013: Fenner Drives belts for power transmission reflecting the absence of a general economic 143.8m, a decrease of 4 per cent but an continued its long-term record of revenue and recovery and further contractions in the UK coal increase of 2 per cent at constant currencies.
Demand from customers in Russia profit progression and high returns on capital employed.
This result reflected its enhanced and Ukraine fell sharply as the depreciation of CDI principal activity: custom seals for go-to-market strategy, incorporating direct local currencies was compounded by political upstream oil & gas performed well in the issues in these countries.
sales to OEMs, the use of manufacturers USA and Singapore, as a result of its strong representatives and consumer sales through relationships with major oilfield services the e-commerce platform on Further information on ECS is set out companies and OEMs, as well as generally www.
in the Divisional Review on pages 18 to 21 buoyant conditions in the energy industry.
However, CDIs business in Europe Mandals lay-flat hoses experienced strong experienced some disruption.
CDI is Advanced Engineered Products demand, mainly from customers in the USA, continuing to invest in the development of a In 2014, AEP generated revenue of 265.5m for its lay-flat hoses for use in hydraulic range of specialised new materials and 2013: 270.8m.
On a constant currency fracturing applications.
In the expectation of products for sealing applications to bring to basis, revenue grew by 4 per cent, which further growth in demand, additional capacity market in the future.
reflected encouraging performances across at the factory in Norway was successfully the division.
commissioned during the year, which is also EGC seals and other components for midintended to increase product quality whilst stream and down-stream oil & gas and the Underlying operating profit for the year was reducing manufacturing costs.
On a constant petrochemical industry achieved a result for currency basis, underlying operating profit fell the year well ahead of last year, benefitting Fenner Precision bespoke belts for printers, by 4 per cent, reflecting the cost of increased from a number of factors, including higher ATMs and other precision applications saw a revenue investment in technology and people levels of investment in the petrochemical significantly weaker financial performance by together with increases in overhead required to industry.
Fenner Precision Buffalo which supplies Case study The Fenner Gateway Development Programme The Fenner Gateway Development of potash and one of iBelts biggest Programme is designed to provide customers, on a fact finding mission.
The leadership training, personal development visit was also used to give an update to the and business skills to aspiring leaders customer on improvements that have been across the Group.
made to iBelt since its initial launch.
There has been positive feedback from the Participants have been set project customer about the visit and the Gateway assignments by senior executives which programme generally.
include an assessment of the commercial benefits of Intelligent Belting, or iBelt, an As iBelt technology was launched 18 innovative new belting product developed months ago, only a small portion of by ECS.
Through a microchip embedded in installed belts are fitted with microchips the belt during manufacture and a reader, and it will therefore take some time for iBelt allows users to easily access key iBelt to show its full potential.
The information such as belt type, roll length, Gateway team is excited to be part of the condition and maintenance history on a introduction and development of an simple to use, online database.
innovative new product that will undoubtedly benefit ECSs customers.
Participants from the programme visited The Mosaic Company, a leading producer Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 7 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Case study AEP investment in technology and people AEP has increased investment in its technology Alongside its investment in new facilities, AEP and people because these are key to its future is increasing investment in its medical product success.
Secant Medical currently has around 80 pipeline projects, most of which are in either In Advanced Sealing Technologies, CDI has the cardiovascular or orthopaedic market expanded and accelerated its continuing segments, at various stages of development.
programme of developing new materials and Secant Medical is also undertaking more basic products which enable its seals to perform new research into emerging technologies, in part applications and in more testing environments.
through partnerships with leading academic TM For example, CDI is developing its Tuff Breed institutions, in areas including sophisticated range of products for hydraulic fracturing polymer synthesis and biodegradable polymers.
In both CDI and EGC, Xeridiem is in the process of developing a new additional management resources, including range of enteral feeding tubes and other single international sales channels, are being put in use medical devices.
These and similar investments will ensure the AEPs medical businesses have shown strong long-term success and growth of AEP.
growth in recent years and opportunities have been identified to accelerate their growth.
rollers for digital printing applications where Group balance sheet and financing Outlook increased commoditisation has reduced selling We have entered the financial year with the The Group remains soundly financed with a prices and margin potential.
In response, we strong balance sheet.
The Groups ratio of net Group well placed to respond to the are in the process of exiting some portions of debt to EBITDA for the year was 1.2 times, a opportunities and challenges which we are the roller business and consolidating Fenner facing.
We are very aware of the potential slight increase from last year but well within Precisions US manufacturing operations at a impact on our end markets and the world the range which we have determined as being a single facility.
Its remaining businesses economy generally from falls in the prices of sustainable level.
During the year, we took the performed satisfactorily.
energy and commodities and from forecasts opportunity to increase the Groups committed of lower economic growth.
bank facilities by 25m to a total of 300m.
James Dawson hoses for large specialist diesel engines achieved an improved result Across ECS, we have not yet seen any Capital expenditure for the year was 28m of as demand for equipment incorporating heavy significant changes in trading conditions or in which 69% was invested in AEP, representing duty diesel engines increased, reflecting the competitive landscape.
We will continue to some 1.3 times depreciation.
We anticipate higher demand for construction equipment in adapt ECSs businesses to maximise expenditure of at least this amount in the various regions.
efficiency without losing the ability to respond current year, focused on AEP, as we continue positively to new opportunities.
our plans to grow the business.
Solesis Medical Technologies Solesis Medical Technologies comprises In the USA, sentiment in the coal mining During 2014, equity was reduced by net Secant Medical and Xeridiem.
Both are industry remains fragile.
ECS has strong exceptional items of 20m.
This amount located in the USA and primarily sell to relationships with its principal coal mining comprised the impairment of intangible domestic customers.
In 2014, revenue was customers and the volumes of coal produced assets, offset by write-backs of contingent broadly unchanged at 27.7m, although this by them are expected to be consistent with consideration, in each case relating to historic represented an increase of 5 per cent at last year.
There remain however significant acquisitions, and certain restructuring costs.
potential uncertainties facing the industry, Further information is set out in the Group such as the direction of gas prices and US Finance Directors Review and also in note 7 Secant Medical biomedical textile government policy.
The timing of any recovery to the Group financial statements.
components and biomaterials produced a in demand for belting product and services is strong result with revenue and underlying Health & Safety uncertain and, when it comes, is likely to be operating profit both ahead of the previous The Group has an overriding commitment to cautious.
The result reflects the strength of the provide a safe and secure working companys relationships with its customers, In Australia, most commentators and environment which extends beyond our which include some of the larger US medical producers expect the extraction and export of employees to encompass all those who work device companies.
Pleasingly, this was coal and iron ore to continue to grow, with or for us to include those who are also achieved despite the deferral of various although not necessarily at rates seen affected by our activities such as customers, purchases by a principal customer.
Global commodity prices are visitors and surrounding communities.
The has undertaken increased revenue investment generally expected to remain relatively low, Groups safety record has shown considerable which has considerably strengthened the and we expect to continue to work closely with improvements in recent years, and we believe companys product pipeline.
our mining customers to increase efficiency that it compares very favourably with other and reduce costs.
With its well-invested and Xeridiem single use medical devices saw a companies in similar industries.
This means strategically located manufacturing facilities that our employees and others are safer, it much reduced result as significant industry and skilled work-force, ensuring that its disruption led to fide-stocking and reduced indicates that we are doing things efficiently customers receive an excellent service, ECS is orders for catheters throughout the period.
and carefully and also has tangible well placed to maintain its market leadership The business has increased its expenditure on commercial benefits, for example, in terms of in this important region.
product development to assist future growth.
Elsewhere, ECS sees good opportunities for further progress in South America, China, the Further information on AEP is set out Further information on Corporate Middle East and the majority of Africa.
in the Divisional Review on pages 22 to 25 Responsibility is set out on pages 30 to 36 Prospects of recovery for our operation in the Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 8 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Results Medium-term financial objectives Fenner is committed to increasing ECS and AEP offer differing prospects of Below we set out the financial objectives we shareholder value.
We expect to achieve this growth through the business cycle, as set out have set for the future growth of ECS, AEP through generating sustained and profitable below.
Over time, we anticipate that, through and the Group as a whole.
higher organic growth and acquisitions, AEP may become the larger contributor of profit within the Fenner Group.
Revenue growth - organic Revenue growth - acquired Margins and returns ECS ECS ECS We expect through-the-cycle growth Acquisitions are likely to be limited to Underlying margin improvement will will reflect global demand for specific geographic or product in-fills.
be achieved through growth and commodities and GDP growth.
ECS should outperform industry The commodities cycle and mining AEP peers through gains in market share, industry sentiment will continue to be reflecting its unique business model, important influences on ECS margins.
AEP is the Groups primary focus enabled by historic investment in for acquisitions with emphasis on technology, efficiency and service oil & gas and medical.
Our objective for AEP is to achieve AEP Group and maintain underlying operating margins in excess of 20 per cent.
We anticipate growing AEP at or We have the financial capacity to Achieving this objective will be about its historic rate measured at spend up to 150 million on supported by investments in AEPs constant currency.
acquisitions over the next three technology and people and by faster years, with potential for a larger, AEP will focus on faster growing growth in higher margin businesses.
markets, especially oil & gas and medical, supported by increased investment.
Group Margin progression for the Group will reflect an increasing proportion of Group profit being earned by AEP.
The return on gross capital employed is expected to continue to be in excess of the Group's weighted average cost of capital and grow over the medium term.
United Kingdom with its exposure to Russia America increases, and its overall medical business as we consolidate Secants and Ukraine appear less certain.
The outlook performance should benefit from recent operations into two new, larger facilities and for the mining industry in west Africa is investment in its technology.
Hallite is as we continue to strengthen our product presently clouded by the outbreaks of Ebola in expected to see a general improvement in pipeline across the division.
sales to industrial markets, but offset by Overall, the strength and resilience of our weaknesses in some parts of its business, AEP expects revenue to grow, broadly in line businesses mean that, in a climate of most notably mining equipment.
with the rates it has achieved historically.
The increased economic and political higher level of investment in technology and Within Precision Polymers, Mandals should uncertainties, we anticipate that growth in people undertaken last year will be benefit from the additional capacity and revenue and profitability in AEP is likely to be maintained and will assist AEP in moving, improvements in product quality.
Fenner offset by weakness in the mining market.
over time, towards its target of achieving an Drives is expected to continue its record of underlying operating margin of at least revenue growth and the results of Fenner 20 per cent.
Precision will be improved by the consolidation of its US digital roller Advanced Sealing Technologies expects a year manufacturing operations.
CDI should benefit from strong customer relationships and its success We expect further progress in Solesis Medical with new materials and products, although Technologies, with Secant Medical increasing lower oil prices may impact investment sales of medical textiles and introducing new activity in the industry.
EGC is anticipating polymers and processes and with some signs Nicholas Hobson higher sales, as expenditure by its customers of a recovery in the markets served by Chief Executive Officer on new petrochemical capacity in North Xeridiem.
This will be a significant year for our 11 November 2014 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2014 9
