Chief Executive s strategic review Our services help create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies and our opportunity is to be the provider of choice for our customers and communities.
We have a unique competitive advantage as a result of our scale and the diversity of our portfolio of market leading transport businesses: we design and operate more networks, we hire and train more employees, we procure, maintain and deploy more vehicles, and we work with more local communities than any other operator.
Our vision is to provide solutions for an increasingly congested world, keeping people moving and communities prospering.
Tim OToole Chief Executive Our strategy Our overall strategy is designed to leverage our scale by developing and sharing our global expertise for the benefit of our local markets.
In recent years, although we have excelled in particular ways and at different times, we have not delivered the overall financial performance that would reflect our leading market positions.
As a consequence, we are repositioning the Group for improved growth and to restore us to a profile of consistent financial returns.
Last year, we strengthened the balance sheet to give us the flexibility to invest in our transformation programme and set out detailed medium term financial targets.
Our Our vision and values strategic objectives under the transformation programme are: focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses, driving growth Our vision is to provide solutions for through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue an increasingly congested world... businesses, continuous improvement in operating and financial keeping people moving and performance, prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems and people, and responsible partnerships with our customers and communities prospering.
communities who rely on us and on whom, in turn, we depend.
We are confident that successful execution of our strategy will deliver Committed to our customers our key medium term financial targets, which are to increase Group We keep our customers at the heart revenue excluding UK Rail at a faster rate than the economies we of everything we do.
serve, improve margins in First Student and UK Bus to double digit levels and in Greyhound to 12%, and to achieve a post-tax return on Dedicated to safety capital employed ROCE in the 10 to 12% range for the Group as a Always front of mind, safety is our whole.
As importantly, our plans will create a more robust company way of life.
and one that is better placed to deliver on its potential.
In this strategic report we set out our business model, strategy and Supportive of each other objectives in detail and review how we performed operationally and We trust each other to deliver and financially in the year against our plans.
We explain how we measure our work to help one another succeed.
progress against a range of financial and non-financial indicators, and review the principal risks and uncertainties that we face, together with the Accountable for performance approach we take to managing them.
Effective transport links play a vital Every decision matters, we do the role in the prosperity of any economy, and responsible partnerships with our customers and communities are therefore one of our strategic right thing to achieve our goals.
Our 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website, expands on the summary to be found in this report.
Setting the highest standards We want to be the best, continually Year in review seeking a better way to do things.
The year to 31 March 2014 has been one of repositioning and investing in the Group to drive greater value from our market leading portfolio of businesses, focusing on our people, our divisional performance and priorities and our financial position.
FirstGroup 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Chief Executive s strategic review Our people UK Bus has achieved overall passenger volume growth for the first In December 2013 we were delighted to announce the appointment of time in several years, as a result of the network transformations, fare John McFarlane as Chairman.
The Group is already benefiting from his reviews and significant investments in fleet and service during the year.
extensive international experience and track record of managing Going forward, we will continue to improve our commercial proposition strategic change and value creation.
The experience, skills and to drive passenger volume growth and revenues, while continuing to perspectives of our new Non-Executive Directors Warwick Brady, strengthen operational discipline as we make progress with our Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh will also be invaluable to the Group step-by-step plan to raise margins to double digits.
as we drive forward our plans.
During the year, UK Rail delivered continued revenue growth In January 2014 Dennis Maple joined the Group as President of First underpinned by robust passenger volume growth.
The wealth of experience that Dennis brings will be important companies worked closely with our industry partners to deliver both as we build on the cost savings actions already taken and accelerate planned infrastructure and fleet upgrades, and remedial work to restore our contract repositioning programme to deliver double digit margins in services on parts of the network damaged by flooding.
First Great the medium term.
During the year, UK Bus restructured its senior Western and First Capital Connect extended their roles through direct leadership team to ensure that the necessary commercial and awards from the Department for Transport DfT in the year.
UK Rail is operational expertise is focused on our local operations and to bring in currently shortlisted for a number of new competitions.
Going forward, new talent over 30% of the management within the division has been UK Rail will participate in a range of franchise competitions to achieve changed in the last two years.
In the year, we have also launched profit on a par with the last round of franchising, with an acceptable important Group-wide employee professional development, level of risk.
engagement and diversity initiatives, which will strengthen our ability to Our financial position deliver our transformation programme.
In June 2013, we received the net 584m proceeds of the rights issue Divisional performance and priorities which strengthened our balance sheet and provided the necessary In the year, we made satisfactory progress with our key divisional flexibility to continue our transformation programme and invest to create priorities, with good performances in four of our divisions partially offset sustainable value.
by slower progress in First Student.
We also have clear plans in place In May 2014, we signed a five year, 800m revolving credit facility with for each of the divisions to contribute to the Groups overall progress our relationship banks.
In addition to achieving better pricing and towards its medium term targets: increased flexibility in certain areas, the new facility gives us strong First Student made progress in its recovery plan, achieving the liquidity and a stable financing platform to drive forward our $100m per annum in cost savings as planned.
However, current cost transformation programme, with our next debt maturity in October 2016. inflation that marginally exceeds the pricing adjustments provided for in Group outlook our multi-year contracts, together with an unprecedented amount of The Group is broadly on track to achieve our medium term targets and, school closures due to the severity of the North American winter while we are encouraged by progress so far, there remains a significant season, meant that our rate of progress toward our medium term amount of work ahead.
We are confident that we have the right plans objective of double digit margins was slower than we had targeted.
underway to build on our market leading positions, strengthen the Going forward, First Student is accelerating its programme to address resilience of the Group, and return to a profile of sustainable cash contract portfolio pricing and focus capital on higher returning generation and value creation for the long term.
opportunities, and is targeting a further $50m per annum of identified cost efficiencies.
First Transit delivered another year of strong growth and good Tim OToole margins, with continued bid success across all segments.
Going Chief Executive forward, First Transit will continue to invest in its market leading people 21 May 2014 and solutions to deliver further growth with attractive returns.
Although its reported results were negatively affected by the severe weather which caused significant disruption to the network this winter, the underlying performance in Greyhound indicates signs of a modestly improving market for our traditional coach services.
Our Greyhound Express and BoltBus point-to-point brands continued to achieve strong profitable growth, benefiting from the unique feed from our national network.
Going forward, the modernisation of Greyhounds IT infrastructure and web presence will deliver improved ticketing, real-time pricing and yield management, and this, together with the continued profitable growth of our point-to-point brands, will deliver our medium term margin target of 12% for the division.
FirstGroup 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
