CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT forhigh voltage, high temperature applications, Introduction I am delighted to be presenting this, my first update as Chief anddevelopment in the leading technology nodes for copper damascene were particular highlights.
The Company has strong products, with leading positions Alent clearly has some leading technology Ive been inglobal markets where demand will only continue to grow impressed with the technical capability within the business, in the long-term.
The fundamentals of our principal endfrom both a fundamental chemistry and material science markets, electronics, automotive and industrial, remain perspective.
This is vital in developing higher margin robust.
The Company delivered good growth on a constant products and accessing the high unit growth end-markets.
currency basis in 2014, with profitability increasing ahead of NSV, and cash generation remaining strong: all of which Last, but by no means least, I have been impressed with the people I have met.
They have been knowledgeable are very attractive and a credit to the management team.
and passionate about the business, enthusiastic about Initial observations what they do and focused on delivering on behalf of Since my appointment was announced in November our customers.
2014, I have taken the opportunity to visit a number of our My priorities facilities, in Asia, Germany and the US, prior to me joining Alent has demonstrated that its competitive advantages officially.
This has meant that I have already met and enable it to outperform its end-markets.
It is clear to me, spoken with many people, which has greatly helped in and the Board, that Alents strengths will enable it to gaining an understanding of the fundamentals of the continue to do so in the future, but also that there is more business.
I have also spent time with the Board and senior that can be achieved here.
management team to understand the strategy.
So my focus is on growth, and in determining where and My first impressions of the business have reinforced my view that Alent is a strong business with good prospects how Alent will grow in the long-term, and where capital willbe allocated to deliver enhanced shareholder value.
The 2014 results are testament to that.
While the principal end-markets showed modest improvement, Opportunities exist to leverage our strong cash generation and balance sheet, to grow organically and through M&A.
supported by signs of better consumer confidence, Alentcontinued its track record of outperforming these My first priority, then, is to fully understand Alent.
Strong relationships with OEMs, alongside a the strengths of the business model and strategy, and the comprehensive global technical service presence and opportunities facing the business.
Over the next few months fast-cycle R&D driving ongoing product innovation, have I will visit the remainder of the Companys operations to fully enabled Alent to grow its market share.
appreciate how we operate, and continue to meet the rest of the team.
I will also be visiting customers to see our During my site visits.
I had the opportunity to see the products in action and talking to them to understand the strategy in action and I can tell you that what I have seen performance of the business from their perspective.
I will as I travel around the business matched what I read and also prioritise meeting investors, to intently listen to their was told before I joined.
Here are just a few examples: respective views of Alent.
I will take all these views on board in Germany I met with the technical support team in determining where to drive the growth.
whoexplained what they have done to support and Investment for growth 2015 - 2016 develop a long-term relationship with one of Europes As Ive said, there is momentum in our business and in our largest suppliers of plating on plastics for the end-markets.
Industry experts are forecasting both the automotivemarket: electronics and automotive markets to grow between 3 - 4% in Asia I saw the benefit of having local, fast-cycle CAAGR from 2014 - 2018.
Within those markets, there are R&Dtosupport the development of new applications attractive higher growth areas that present specific forcustomers, such as molded interconnect devices formobile phones and advanced protective coatings for printed circuit boards: in Singapore I also witnessed the benefit of our OEM I am excited to have been relationships pulling through a new polymer sintering asked to lead Alent.
It is a strong product, Atrox, which is a disruptive technology for Company with great prospects thesemiconductor market currently in the approval process: and and I am eager to start working in the US I was impressed by the developments with the senior team in driving infundamental and disruptive technologies.
Alent through its next phase of Thedevelopment in Argomax, the silver nano paste growth and development.
06 ALENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION opportunities for Alent such as tablets and automotive equipment will be focused on high-margin products such semiconductors, which are expected to grow around 7% as die-attach, LED, nano silver and performance coatings and 9% respectively.
in our research centre in India.
In the US, equipment will be added for advanced wafer fabrication research, The improving end-market trends and the business and coating development equipment will be added for performance in 2014 has reinforced our confidence in both decorative and performance coating applications our strategic direction.
Consequently, the Board and I feel in Europe.
the time is right to invest now, to extend our competitive advantage and accelerate future organic growth.
We expect to see benefits starting to come through next Consequently, during the course of 2015 and 2016, year, with the full NSV growth benefit being delivered in we are embarking on a targeted investment programme: 2017.
Alent is a technology Company and it is essential strengthening routes to market, product development, that we innovate for the future if we are to remain manufacturing and R&D.
We will be mindful of end-market performance and will maintain discipline through the Our customer-led, fast-cycle R&D, and technical service structured investment programme.
model is key to our outperformance.
We will, therefore, invest up to 7m during 2015, increasing headcount Outlook As ever, while visibility remains limited, we expect to make byaround 100 people in these areas.
The focus is on accelerating share gains, developing new products and continued progress over the course of the year, with our normal seasonal improvement in the second half.
We have a winning formula in this area and we will continue to build on this, ensuring we have the things stand, we anticipate that our core markets will continue to grow at a similar rate to 2014, on a global rightpeople, in the right place, to take advantage of the opportunities we can see ahead with customers.
basis, during the course of this year and that Alent will continue to outperform its key markets.
We will increase OEM sales headcount, particularly in Asia, We are confident our targeted investment programme to achieve key approvals and build customer intimacy.
Headcount will be added to supplement our R&D teams, willaccelerate growth and margin improvement and that we are well placed to take advantage of improving in support of both new and existing customers.
Scientists and engineers will be recruited to increase product market conditions.
development, primarily in India and the US.
We will also Conclusion expand our global technical services capability to I am excited to have been asked to lead Alent.
It is a enhance support to customers.
strong Company with great prospects.
I am eager to start working with the senior team in driving Alent through its Additionally we will increase capital expenditure during next phase of growth and development.
I look forward to 2015 to 1.5 1.8x depreciation, focusing on upgrades to updating you on progress in next years Annual Report.
our manufacturing and R&D facilities, to support new processes, entry to new higher growth markets and the development of our high margin products.
Specifically, we will be upgrading the copper damascene and wafer ANDREW HEATH level packaging process lines in the US, and the powder Chief Executive manufacturing capability in Asia.
Investment in R&D 2 March 2015 RICK REAGAN ANDREW HEATH DAVID EGAN RICK ERTMANN President, Enthone Chief Executive Finance Director President, Alpha WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 ALENT PLC 07
