Chief Executives Letter Targeted investment, disciplined cash management, and a commitment to shared value.
As always, we will focus on operational excellence by seeking additional efficiencies, investing in productivity and controlling costs to maintain our cost position and world-class margins.
Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive Officer Our mines are set toyield returns even ina low metal price environment | 12 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance When I first entered the mining industry, the typical price Our high-potential development projects meet stringent criteria for mineral cyclewas fairly predictable: rising demand led to higher content and embedded costs from the start.
Thus Saucito II andSan Julin, prices, which encouraged producers to expand capacity: then which advanced according to plan this year, are expectedto contribute to eventually rising inventories led back to softer prices.
Today, our future profitable growth.
however, we see another set of fundamentals driving precious Exploration remains core to our organic growth strategy and a metal prices: global macroeconomic conditions that influence key element in extending mine life: by investing through the price exchange-traded funds and investment demand for metals.
cycle, wesaw gold and silver reserves increase by 45.0% and 21.3% Case in point: the Feds tapering programme and expected rate hike, as respectivelyover 2013 levels.
well as the strengthening of the US dollar, put downward pressure on gold and silver prices in 2014.
While there was no shortage of geopolitical risk Challenge creates opportunity in the year, which may have offered price support to gold in the past given This is not to say we did not encounter internal challenges in the year.
its safe haven status, the impact was muted compared to prior periods However, as I lay out below, these have in fact provided us with an of turmoil.
opportunity to adapt, innovate, modify and enhance our operations suchthat our long-term outlook is secure.
Strategy drives value creation The first key challenge was at the Fresnillo mine, where we faced With price cycles much less predictable now, a companys strategy, the natural and expected decline of silver ore grades: this was business model and execution have become the barometers of further exacerbated by dilution due to rock conditions and a delay in value-creation and longevity.
We know that sheer size alone does development activities as a result of mechanical failures with contractor not determine success but that operational excellence, targeted equipment, limiting access to some stopes in the first quarter of the year.
investment, disciplined cash management, and a commitment to sharedvalue just may.
In that regard, I remain confident Combined, these factors clearly had an impact on the mines silver that we are on the right path.
production, down 11.7% year on year, but it also prompted us to adjust mining methods, change drilling layouts, bring in new contractors, and For Fresnillo, production goals have always been set according to our implement stricter controls on development rates, all of which will ability to profitably maximise operations, develop new projects and support production volumes next year.
Furthermore, cost per tonne build the growth pipeline, rather than as a straight response to market decreased in the year as a result of our efficiency initiatives and greater dynamics.
Our value chain sets strategic relationships directly in the economies of scale.
centre, with the recognition that shared value creates the support required to sustain our business model.
Second, as you may recall, we entered 2014 with a suspended explosives permit at our subsidiary Minera Penmont, arising from the legal challenge How is this reflected in our performance?
By design, our mines are set raised by the Ejido El Bajo agrarian community in 2013, who contested to yield returns even in a low metal price environment.
All-in sustaining the ownership of the surface land of the Dipolos pit and the beneficiation costs AISC on a life of mine basis in most of our mines are amongst the plant of the Soledad-Dipolos mine.
The resolution of this case ultimately lowest in the industry, and in most cases significantly lower than current led to a full suspension of mining and beneficiation activities at Soledadand projected market prices for gold and silver.
This is a clear competitive Dipolos and halted mining activity at Herradura until March 2014. advantage, as it allows us to maintain operating continuity in times of depressed prices.
In 2014 we continued to generate solid profit margins As gold production ramped up again at Herradura, the new dynamic at our silver underground mines, whilst profit margins at our gold open pit leaching plant concurrently reached full-scale operations, albeit with mines were reasonable considering the temporarily higher stripping ratios technical issues involving an excess of solids in solution.
We recognised and lower gold prices.
that processing capacity at Herradura would have to be enhanced in Gold reserves Silver reserves 45.0% 21.3% | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 13 Chief Executives Letter continued order to efficiently process the solution produced at both the leaching Construction of Saucito II was completed on time and on budget, pads and the dynamic leaching plant and thus enable us to achieve and the new mine formally commenced operations in December.
Our focus at Herradura is three-fold for 2015: the This US$235 million project is anticipated to produce 8.4 million ounces installation of a second Merrill Crowe plant, relocated from our currently of silver and 35,000 ounces of gold per year once it reaches full capacity, inactive operations at Soledad-Dipolos, additional investment to increase which we now expect to happen ahead of the previously indicated the solution processing capacity, and technical modifications to the three-year timeframe.
The San Julin project is progressing as expected dynamic leaching plant.
Combined, these are expected to allow this and remains on track to start production in the fourth quarter of 2015. mineto achieve steady state production by the fourth quarter of 2015.
This US$515.0 million silver-gold project is expected to produce an average of 10.3 million ounces of silver and 44,000 ounces of gold peryear once at full capacity.
Strengthening our precious metals position We allocated US$184.5 million to exploration during the year.
We went on to significantly bolster our gold outlook during the year.
While thiswas somewhat below the original budget, we identified In October we acquired Newmont Minings 44% interest in Penmont anumber of promising new targets in the mining districts where we andassociated companies, allowing us to take full ownership of the operate, an approach that has proven to deliver cost-effective discoveries assets we already operated, and strengthening our regional footprint as infrastructure is already in place.
We also explored in other highin one of Mexicos richest gold belts.
Not only was the US$450 million potential districts where initial drilling was successful.
We are particularly transaction immediately accretive to net asset value, it also allowed us excited about results obtained in the Herradura District and at Orisyvo to increase our 2018 production target from 500,000 ounces to 750,000 and Guanajuato.
Our 2018 silver production target of 65 million ounces remains in place.
The increase in total reserves included a significant conversion of resources into reserves, most notably 162 million ounces of silver and We made progress towards those ambitiousgoalsthis year.
533 thousand ounces of gold at San Julin, and 2.5 million ounces of gold Silver production including the Silverstream of 45.0 million ounces at Herradura, the latter following an intensive infill drilling campaign and camein4.9% ahead of guidance.
The aforementioned decline at Fresnillo the revised parameters in calculating the deep ore in the pit.
Total gold was mitigated by increased throughput at Saucito, with additional ore resources increased 1.7% while silver resources declined 6.2% due to processed from development activities at Saucito II, as well as increased lower price assumptions and the conversion of resources into reserves.
Full ownership of the Penmont assets, progress on development Gold production of 596 thousand ounces reflected the stoppage at projects and the increase in reserves uphold our view that Fresnillo is Soledad-Dipolos and the temporary disruptions at Herradura, mitigated well positioned to address cyclical challenges while delivering long-term by the acquisition of the Penmont assets.
This figure was slightly value creation.
above our revised target, which had taken into account the delay in ramp-up at Herradura due to the aforementioned technical issues and capacity constraints.
Financial performance The Groups financial performance was negatively impacted by the decline in precious metal prices.
Our average realised silver and gold prices decreased by 18.4% and 10.2% respectively compared to 2013.
We were also affected by the reduced sales volumes of gold resulting from the suspended operations at Soledad-Dipolos and the temporary halt in production at Herradura.
The combined impact of these factors drove adjusted revenues down by 12.3% to US$1,545.0 million.
2018 silver 2018 gold production target production target 65 750 moz koz | 14 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Adjusted production costs increased 19.4% due to higher variable costs HSECR performance, and a revised recorded as a result of the resumed operations at Herradura: the start-up riskassessment of the dynamic leaching plant: the temporarily higher stripping ratios at Herradura and Noche Buena: and the increased volumes processed at a We know that robust sustainability practices make good business sense number of our mines.
These were partially mitigated by the efficiencies on multiple levels: along with underpinning our licence to operate, they achieved at several of our mines, costs not incurred at Soledad-Dipolos, lower operating risk and often drive better operating performance and the favourable impact of the 4.1% devaluation of the average overall.
We see the Groups HSECR strategy as essential to creating Mexicanpeso US dollar exchange rate.
Gross profit decreased by 32.1% to US$521.1 million.
Reduced exploration But there is still work to be done on a number of fronts, most vitally to expenses helped narrow the decline in EBITDA to 22.3%, while the EBITDA fulfil our zero fatality commitment.
To reinforce our safety efforts, we margin decreased from 45.2% to a still robust 40.1%.
launched a new programme focusing on the human factors involved in the majority of incidents and injuries.
This complements the Groups The revaluation effect of the Silverstream Contract was a US$77.0 million No More Accidents programme and a range of initiatives aimed at gain to the Groups financial results despite lower silver price assumptions, embedding safety in our culture.
Indeed, we must ensure that our reflecting a number of factors including increased resource grade at workplace culture places adherence to safety above all other outcomes.
Sabinas, a lower discount rate, better than expected production in 2014 I remain personally committed to improving our indicators in 2015. and unwinding of the discount.
Our environmental performance in energy and greenhouse gas emissions Income tax expense declined by 2.7% as a result of lower profits largely reflected longer haulage distances and the start-up of the dynamic generated in the year, offset by an increase in deferred income taxes leaching plant, although good progress was made in water utilisation generated by the greater differences arising between the carrying rates.
In fact, our water footprints per ounce of silver at Saucito and value of assets and liabilities denominated in US dollars and their tax Fresnillo are among the best in the industry.
bases denominated in Mexican pesos.
The effective tax rate, excluding the special mining right, was 47.1%, or 53.4% including the effects of Thankfully, our track record on environmental incidents remains solid, the US$15.7 million recorded on the income statement for the special but by no means are we immune from the consequences of such events mining right.
that befall others in our industry.
In 2014, several environmental incidents occurred.
As a result of these incidents, amendments to Mexican laws Net profit for the period was US$117.1 million, a 55.1% decrease, on environmental liability have been proposed with a view to raising whileprofit attributable to equity shareholders totalled US$108.4 million, sanctions on violations, from higher fines to permanent suspensions a54.9% decrease over 2013. of mining concessions.
As a result, we have elevated the risk rating ofpotential actions by the government see 2014 risk assessments Cash flow generated by operations, before changes in working capital, pages43-45.
decreased by 24.2% to US$568.5 million, mainly as a result of the lower profits generated.
Working capital increased US$183.4 million due to an increase in income tax and VAT receivables and higher volumes sold to Met-Mex: and higher inventories in the Herradura District.
Capital expenditures totalled US$425.6 million, a decrease of 25.6%, with investments primarily allocated to construction of the Saucito II No More andSan Julin projects, purchase of components for mobile equipment atHerradura and Fresnillo, development works at Saucito and Cinega, Accidents and construction of leaching pads at Noche Buena.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 15 Chief Executives Letter continued Unsurprisingly, the impacts of these incidents extended to the social A look ahead at 2015 sphere.
Multiple organisations called for the closure of related mining While our strategic objectives remain unchanged, we must be operations and launched acts of civil defiance to pressure authorities.
sensitive to market dynamics as they relate to our budgeting and We felt this warranted the elevation of the public perception against cash management strategies.
For 2015 we have given priority to mining risk as well.
optimising output from the Fresnillo and Cinega mines, ramping up I would like to state unequivocally that Fresnillo supports its communities Saucito II, delivering San Julin on time and on budget, advancing rights, not just to environmental health but also to the due benefits our assessment of Orisyvo, evaluating mine plan options for of a strategic partner.
In 2014 we conducted our biennial community MegaCentauro as the natural evolution of Herraduras Centauro pit, perception and reputation survey, and for the first time included focus and progressing our advanced exploration projects.
groups in the formal consultation process of reviewing and enhancing We will continue to monitor changes to our operating assumptions, ourcommunity investment strategy and policies.
always favouring actions that accelerate cash flow and deferring We are now taking a fresh look at how we approach community relations, expenditures that do not sacrifice the optimal timing of our projects.
and have brought in an external consultant to support this effort.
In line Our current expected capex outlay for the year is in the region of with our commitment to adopting international best practices as US$700 million, while risk capital to be invested in exploration is delineated by such organisations as the International Finance Corporation budgeted at around US$170 million.
We believe our current balance IFC and the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, we will sheet is well placed to meet these plans and still provide us with provide detailed information as we progress with that effort.
As well as sufficient flexibility totake advantage of any opportunities that putting in place policies designed to enhance stakeholder engagement may arise.
and community development, we are exploring the possibility of a public As always, we will focus on operational excellence by seeking health programme.
Although still in its discovery phase, this programme additional efficiencies, investing in productivity and controlling links silver to the production of safe drinking water, in line with the sooncoststo maintain our cost position and world-class margins.
to-be-published United Nations 2015 Sustainable Development Goals.
This initiative, which positively connects mining to a humanitarian cause, I have tremendous respect and gratitude for our suppliers, is meant to serve both as an emblem and as an inspiration for Fresnillos contractors, clients and other stakeholders and especially for general sustainability plan.
ourpeople and communities, whose wellbeing we will continue to prioritise in all that we do.
Our belief in creating shared value for all Even as we seek to understand and meet changing community ourstakeholders helps drive our strategy and gives me confidence expectations, mining companies in Mexico have continued to face a inour ability to deliver returns in 2015 and beyond.
rise in the number of conflicts with local landowners, as with our own experience in the Penmont litigation of 2013.
Our approach is always to ensure respectful land acquisition processes and grievance mechanisms, Octavio Alvdrez but we recognise that access to land is a rising strategic risk.
Chief Executive Officer As one of the leading precious metals companies, we aspire to have a well-established ethics culture within Fresnillo.
In 2014 we implemented an Ethics and Integrity Programme guided by UK best practices, which incorporates the Groups values and Code of Conduct, and supports decision-making at all levels of the organisation.
All executives, senior and middle managers, employees and key contractors have participated in workshops.
2015 Exploration 2015 Capex $170m $700m | 16 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance What we said we would do in 2014 What we did in 2014 What we plan to do in 2015 More info Continuous improvement in safety One fatality vs two in 2013 : improvement Zero fatalities, continuous improvement performance: meet our zero fatalities target inother indicators in safety Pages 83-85 Silver production of 43 moz, including Exceeded target at 45 moz 45-47 moz silver, including Silverstream Silverstream Page 6 Attributable gold production of 450,000 oz Target was revised to 590,000 oz reflecting 670-685 koz gold the stoppage at Soledad-Dipolos and Page 6 disruptions at Herradura, mitigated by the purchase of the remaining stake in Penmont and associated companies : actual production totalled 596 oz Conclude construction of Saucito II in Saucito II commenced operations in San Julin stage 1 start-up in 4Q 2015 4Q2014, advance San Julin towards December, San Julin remains on track Page 71 2015start-up Continue optimisation at Cinega and Milling efficiencies achieved at Cinega, Launch next phase of growth at initiate expansion of milling capacity: expansion deferred to 2015: commenced Cinega: start construction of plant Pages conduct detailed engineering for the pyrites detailed preparatory engineering for the expansion, build tailing dam #3, conduct 62-64, 72 plant in the Fresnillo District, and pending pyrites plant pre-feasibility study of mine expansion Board approval, initiate construction in for Board approval: finalise detailed 2H2014 engineering of the pyrites plant and commence construction Exploration budget of US$225.0 million Risk capital invested in exploration reduced Exploration budget of approximately including capitalised exploration expenses, to US$184.5 million US$170.0 million, focused around current Page 73 focused on converting resources to mines and advanced exploration projects reserves Conclude evaluation for expansion of Acquired Newmonts 44% interest in Evaluate mine plan option for theMega Centauro pit: pending approval, Penmont and associated companies : MegaCentauro: continue exploration Pages initiate stripping activities: increase evaluated Centauro pit expansion as ofCentauro Deep 65-67, 74 resources at the Centauro Deep project natural evolution of the main Herradura pit: continued exploration activities at CentauroDeep Review and upgrade our energy Approached NGOs to launch a review of Adapt water stewardship and and climate change, water, land our water stewardship and biodiversity  Pages 86-91 and strategies Continue to advance the maturity of HSECR system reached overall maturity Further advance maturity of HSECR ourHSECR system of84% vs 77% in 2013 system towards fully integrated system Page 80 by 2016 target | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2014 17
