Chief Executive Officers review 2014 review Our strategic plan combines cultural transformation with sustained investments in organic growth and productivity improvements, together with active portfolio management and disciplined financial and risk management.
Im pleased to report that we made good progress in all of these areas during 2014.
Our markets As the worlds leading global integrated security company, our mission is to create sustainable value for our customers and shareholders by being the supply partner of choice in all of our markets.
Independent studies indicate that global demand for security is expected to grow at a compound average rate of 7% per annum between 2013 and 2023, reaching c. 210 billion in annual revenues by 2023.
Ashley Almanza The main drivers of industry growth are diverse and include: Group Chief Executive Officer the economic environment and GDP growth: infrastructure investment: levels of conflict and crime: customer attitudes to risk and focus on security: customer efficiency and outsourcing objectives: regulation and the regulatory environment: technological change and Delivering sustainable innovation: interest rates and the role and policies of central banks influence the cash handling industry.
profitable growth Through its unique market positions, G4S has attractive exposure to the growing demand in global security markets.
We also have a diverse and proven range of services and the expertise to address this In 2013 we established a new strategic plan to organic growth potential.
transform G4S and deliver sustainable, profitable Investing in organic growth In 2014 we took action to strengthen our sales capability, growth.
In 2014, the group made good progress customer relationships and customer service.
We invested executing this strategic plan and I am pleased in strategic account management and also implemented to report a 12% increase in underlying earnings a systematic approach to measuring and monitoring customer satisfaction.
to 210 million and a 25% increase in cash flow We continued to invest in service and product innovation from operating businesses to 526 million.
and strengthened our sales operations and our sales The groups performance and prospects are capacity.
These investments have begun to improve our pipeline management and in 2014 we won new contracts reflected in the directors recommendation to with a total value of 2.1 billion.
increase the final dividend by 5% to 5.82 pence In 2014, we achieved revenue growth of 8.9% in our per share.
Much remains to be done to realise emerging market businesses and 6.9% in our North the full potential of our strategy.
As expected, revenues in our UK & Ireland and Europe regions declined by 1%, reflecting the end of the Electronic Monitoring contract in the UK and the end of the prison service contract in the Netherlands.
Our People It is essential for the successful and sustainable growth of our business that we attract, retain, develop and incentivise the best people in our industry.
During 2014 we made a number of key appointments to the Group Executive Committee GEC.
Peter Neden has been appointed to the role of Regional President, UK & Ireland.
Peter is a proven service industry executive, covering both commercial and government sectors in the UK.
John Kenning joined us in the role of Regional CEO, North America and Technology, succeeding Grahame Gibson who retires this year.
John has a successful track record in sales and security technology.
10 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report In July this year Jenni Myles will take up the role of group now comes under the formal oversight of our group HR Director, succeeding Irene Cowden who retires in June.
Jenni has held a number of senior HR positions at G4S We established Safety first as a new group value and all including HR Director for our North American and Latin senior executives completed mandatory safety leadership American businesses.
Jenni brings a deep knowledge of our training which we are extending across the group in 2015. industry and company combined with a track record of We established the new position of Group Head of leading and supporting large organisational change Health and Safety and appointed an experienced safety programmes.
Grahame and Irene have each made an professional to this role.
Whilst we have been successful enormous and valuable contribution to G4S and they leave in raising safety awareness and strengthening our resources with our profound thanks and best wishes.
and systems, we remain fundamentally dissatisfied with our Mel Brooks was promoted to Group Strategy overall safety performance.
I deeply regret to report that & Commercial Director after successfully managing our in 2014, 41 of our colleagues lost their lives in work-related large Indian business.
Mel brings security and technology incidents 2013: 49 work-related fatalities, including 14 expertise from a variety of senior leadership roles he colleagues who died in attack-related incidents, protecting has held both in G4S and in the defence industry.
our customers and their property.
Beyond the GEC, we continued to invest heavily in Work-related fatalities have a devastating impact on refreshing and strengthening our senior management team.
families and colleagues at G4S and they motivate us to put Since spring 2013 we have made 114 senior appointments Safety First.
Zero harm remains our goal and each and to our senior leadership cadre of 220 executives, every member of the global leadership team is committed comprising 64 external hires and 50 internal promotions.
In 2014, we also established a UK corporate The new appointments cover key positions in general renewal plan and made good progress in implementing the management, sales, business development, operations, plan.
Implementation of this plan remains a priority in 2015. technology, procurement, IT, finance and risk management.
Productivity All of these changes have been designed to strengthen Over the past 18 months we have established a number our organisation and support the group-wide of important programmes to improve the productivity of transformation of G4S.
Given the scale and current stage of organisational Our global leadership development programme was maturity of G4S, these programmes address a material re-launched in 2014.
We are also simplifying and opportunity to improve our performance and create reinforcing succession and development planning to ensure shareholder value.
Our restructuring and organisational that our leaders of tomorrow are identified and given the efficiency programmes made good progress in 2014 and appropriate opportunities to develop early in their careers.
we believe there are further opportunities to implement Our investment in training and development permeates lean processes and more efficient organisation structures.
the entire organisation and is nowhere more important Any new programmes will be subject to stringent financial, than in customer-facing roles.
I would like to thank the more than 623,000 colleagues Our operational reliability and efficiency programmes across the world whose skill, energy and dedication to broadly fall into two categories.
Firstly, direct labour our customers and our company is reflected in the efficiency, which aims to ensure we deploy the correct progress made by G4S in 2014. service at the right time, thereby helping to improve customer service and reduce costs see page 27.
Our Values Secondly, route planning and telematics, which seeks During 2014, we updated and re-launched our group to reduce vehicle and crew requirements and to reduce values and mounted an awareness and training programme fuel and maintenance costs whilst simultaneously to ensure that G4S managers and employees understand improving driver safety see page 27. how to put our group values into practice in everyday business activities.
To support and reinforce this In 2014, we established the new position of Chief programme we have updated and re-launched our Procurement Officer and recruited an experienced whistleblowing policy and compliance monitoring procurement leader and team.
We aim to achieve Our values at work an integrated reporting framework Our corporate values influence every aspect of corruption, health and safety, and human rights.
our culture and day-to-day business activity, and To better reflect the focus which our values we recognise that CSR strategies are best achieved have within our organisation and the importance when integrated into business practices.
It is with we place upon ethics and sustainability, we have this that in mind that our CSR strategies and priorities year implemented an integrated CSR reporting are developed in conjunction with our operational framework which is led by our Annual Report businesses and help to improve the way we work and Accounts and supported by a CSR report and our approach to doing business.
Our priority and our website.
areas are business ethics and anti-bribery and Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 11 Chief Executive Officers review continued procurement efficiencies by using our global scale to IT service management models to improve consistency consolidate supply chain management and secure and efficiency in IT infrastructure, development better terms of business.
We are also beginning to and operations.
improve visibility, understanding and control of our Active Portfolio Management buying behaviours to improve efficiency.
During 2014 we continued to apply the Last year we completed the first phase of our UK structured approach to portfolio management shared service centre to standardise key processes and which we established in 2013.
Since the inception reduce the cost of functional support.
In 2015 we will of this management discipline we have completed the extend the scope of shared services performed at our divestment of eight businesses at attractive exit UK centre and we will consolidate our North American multiples, generating aggregate proceeds of 248 million back office.
We have begun to assess the feasibility of and an aggregate profit on disposal of 92 million.
applying our shared service model in other regions.
Businesses sold previously contributed revenue of over 700 million at an average net margin of 2.8%, well We are undertaking a disciplined and progressive below the group average.
We also discontinued a IT transformation programme.
During 2014, we focused further 22 businesses.
Portfolio management remains an on building our IT leadership and development important discipline in ensuring that we maintain capability.
We currently spend around 180 million strategic focus, capital discipline and effective financial on IT services and we are now progressively employing performance across the group.
Delivering value through our key programmes Our strategic plan encompasses key programmes which address multiple sources of value.
Make our culture through growth, customer organisation more our people and service and productive p24 values p14 operational excellence p20 Building capacity in our people Strengthening organic sales and Investing in organisational efficiency Strengthened global leadership fide-layering our organisation business development capability team 114 appointments to top Shorter lines of communication, invested additional c20m 220 executive roles 50 internal, reduced costs and increased time Appointed new sales leaders across 64 external focused on customers the group Re-launched leadership programmes Investment in sector and Globalising key functions technology specialists Improve consistency, efficiency and Re-focusing our values Appointed 385 additional new hires effectiveness of our support functions Greater emphasis on Health into sales and business development Creating shared service centres and Safety Safety first roles in the past 21 months Employee communications and for back office functions Leverage scale of organisation training to reinforce group values Improving sales operations Enhanced whistleblowing and and standardise processes More proactive management of Implemented first phase in finance case management sales pipeline in UK in 2014 Investing in customer relationship Managing risk US shared service centre in 2015 and global account management Investment in improved Better alignment of sales incentives IT transformation risk management with customer satisfaction Progressive, disciplined change Extending proven services from one programme to improve efficiency Enhancing our market to another and consistency in IT infrastructure, performance management development and operations Increased rigour in our performance contracts Aligned incentives with values and performance 12 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Disciplined risk and financial management Outlook During 2014 we established an enterprise risk G4S strategy and plan address a positive, management system based on the three lines of long term demand outlook for our core services defence model.
As noted above we have invested and seek to deliver sustainable, profitable growth.
heavily in strengthening our senior leadership teams We are making good progress with the implementation and reinforcing our group values, both of which are of our strategic plan and this was reflected in the important components of our risk and financial groups commercial, operational and financial management systems.
We also strengthened our performance in 2014.
The groups performance contract risk management processes and made and prospects are also reflected in the directors significant investments in financial control resources recommendation to increase the final dividend by 5%.
and audit and assurance capacity.
There remains much to be done to realise the full The importance of contract risk management potential of our strategy and we expect to make was highlighted again last year with the 116 million further progress in 2015. settlement of the electronic monitoring contract and a further charge to profits of 45 million relating to provisions on legacy UK contracts.
Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer Our strategic plan encompasses key programmes which address multiple sources of value.
Embed organisation more our portfolio and disciplined productive p24 performance p30 financial and risk management p32 Investing in operational excellence Reviewed 56 under performing Soundly financed Investment grade credit rating accelerated best practice ABP or immaterial businesses in 2014 and 998m of unutilised credit facilities Direct labour efficiency Eight businesses sold in 2014 including Uses subject matter experts working with US Government Solutions Global capex rationing central local line managers to deploy the correct raised gross proceeds of 177m pool of capital service at the right time, improving in 2014 and gross proceeds 248m Investment hurdle rate 10% post customer service and reducing costs since 2013 tax IRR Multi-year programme covering 39 20 discontinued: 22 under review and Rebalance investment towards businesses and 376,000 employees 14 to be retained with performance organic growth in the first phase improvement plans Businesses sold had revenue of more Telematics and route scheduling Improve sustainable free cash than 700m and an average net margin programmes for our fleet flow and working capital of 2.8% Telematics management reduces fuel and maintenance Implementing a costs: improves driver safety cash matters culture In 4,500 vehicles at the end of 2014 Route scheduling Strong focus on financial fewer vehicles and efficient crew stewardship requirements leading to improved Strengthened capability and customer service capacity in audit, risk and 7,000 vehicles to be covered by financial management end of 2015 Strengthened contract New global procurement programme review process Baseline study identified addressable spend of 1.3bn 70% in eight categories material opportunities to reduce costs Negotiating with a number of key suppliers with the first global procurement deals signed Leveraging our scale Annual Report and Accounts 2014 G4S plc 13
