Chief executives review Positive markets support further disciplined growth People and culture Our people give us a competitive advantage.
I believe that getting our people strategy and recruitment right will be the biggest single factor in achieving our 2018 objectives.
After five years of relative stability, the market recovery is creating demand for talented people throughout the industry.
Galliford Trys success makes our employees desirable to our competitors and we are taking necessary steps to retain our key people.
We always look to promote from within but our growth strategy to 2018, announced with our half year results in February 2014, requires us to recruit more than 1,000 people over the next four years, at all levels and particularly in Partnerships and Construction.
We are therefore delighted to have brought some 600 experienced people into the Group through our acquisition of Miller Construction in July 2014.
We expect to require fewer new people in Linden Homes, as our growth will not initially be driven by a large increase in units.
We see positive signs Our performance, ambition and culture make Galliford Try an inallour markets, attractive employer.
Our growth provides opportunities for our people and we empower them to deliver, so the Group is an allowingus to plan for exciting place to work.
We are also increasing our intake of graduates and apprentices, so we have the people and skills disciplined growth.
By we need for the longer term.
2018 we aim to more than As discussed below, supply chain conditions mean that building anything is as difficult as I have ever known.
This makes our double our profits and day-to-day operations much tougher for our people.
I want to thank everyone in Galliford Tryfor their efforts, without which earnings per share we would not have been able to deliver such strong results.
compared to 2013, with Strategy For the first time in several years, our markets in housebuilding, corresponding increases affordable homes and construction are all showing signs that they can grow.
This allows us to look forward and expand the business.
In February this year, we therefore announced a new set of strategic objectives see pages 12 and 13.
These will see us deliver disciplined growth in Linden Homes and Partnerships, and growconstruction back to its pre-recession level.
Revenue Up 19% In setting these objectives, we were mindful of both the external and internal benefits.
We want to be as transparent as possible for our investors, so they understand how we view our business and markets, and what we believe is achievable over the next few years.
We also perform better when we have clear goals, as was 1,851m apparent when we set our target in 2009 to double the size of our Including our share of joint ventures.
These objectives show the scale of our ambition, helping us to motivate and retain our people and to attract new employees.
08 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials As part of the strategy, we have realigned Partnerships to our Outlook housebuilding division.
This will allow us to use Linden Homes Our landbank in housebuilding is at record levels.
We own or expertise to grow our mixed tenure and land-led developments, control all the land we need for the current year and have a very strengthening our unique position in this market.
Partnerships strong position for the year after.
At 30 June 2014, we had a record growth will be funded by cash from the rapid expansion of its carried forward position, with 34% of sales for 2015 already contracting side.
Overall, we expect Partnerships to achieve reserved or exchanged.
The land market continues to provide revenue in excess of 350 million by 2018, up from around attractive opportunities for us and we increased our hurdle rate 100 million in 2013 and 243 million in 2014. from 22% to 23% on 1 July 2014.
We will continue to seek opportunities for intra-Group trading, At 30 June 2014, we had already secured 84% of our projected using our combined capabilities in housebuilding and construction workload for 2015 in construction.
We are seeing opportunities to provide a compelling offer to clients.
We have also ensured coming through at improving margins, allowing us to remain we have the finance to fund our growth, with a new five year selective about the work we take on.
400 million unsecured credit facility in place.
We are delighted to welcome Miller Construction to the Group Sustainability following its acquisition on 9 July 2014.
Integration is proceeding Sustainability has long been part of our strategy and is the very well and ahead of our expectations.
The acquisition brings cornerstone of our vision to be leaders in the construction of a together two construction businesses with a clear strategic fit sustainable future.
We are further integrating it into our operations, and together makes our construction division stronger.
by asking our director of health and safety to also take responsibility for sustainability.
Tight supply chain conditions mean that one of the key challenges will be carrying out the work we are planning.
We continue to The long recession shrunk both the housebuilding and construction manage our supply chain relationships carefully, to minimise this supply chains.
The introduction of Help to Buy in April 2013 risk and ensure we achieve our objectives for the coming year.
We contributed to a rapid housing market recovery, which has led to will also focus on attracting and retaining the people we will need shortages of materials and subcontractors.
This has also had a to achieve our objectives.
short-term effect on the construction supply chain.
Whilst rising costs in the housebuilding supply chain are being offset by sales price increases, in construction we have contracts that were priced 12 to 18 months ago, which assumed no cost increases.
This has put additional pressure on construction margins this year.
We believe we are through the most difficult period with the position stabilising but we expect supply chain conditions to remain tough Greg Fitzgerald for at least the next financial year.
In the meantime, we continue to work hard to engage and support our supply chain partners, so that Chief executive we are an attractive customer for them.
Full year results interview available at Keeping our people healthy and safe is a priority.
co. uk investors outstanding performance in 2013, disappointingly our internally measured Accident Frequency Rate rose slightly this year for the first time in over five years.
We remain highly focused on the behavioural aspects of safe working.
We have set stringent Group targets for reducing carbon emissionsand achieving the corresponding energy and cost savings.
A strong environmental performance also helps us to winwork in construction and to attract the next generation ofemployees.
Working closely with our communities is important to us.
We create jobs, boost local economies and ensure we keep our communities informed about our projects and their progress.
As well as being the right thing to do, our approach recognises that it is easier to do business in communities where we are welcomed.
Profit before tax Up 28% Delivering in partnership 95.2m Our experience of producing exceptional housing developments, such as City Glade in Exeter, Devon, will also help us to deliver strong growth in our Partnerships affordable housing business.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 09
