Group Chief Executives review Go-Ahead ended the year as a stronger Group with enhanced prospects for the future.
David Brown, Group Chief Executive A sustainable business This was a particularly busy and exciting year for Sustainability and corporate responsibility are integral to our strategy and the Go-Ahead.
We were awarded the Thameslink, Southern way we operate at every level of the business.
This is our second integrated and Great Northern TSGN franchise, securing our annual report which aims to present a comprehensive view of the Group.
I believe this style of reporting is a natural fit for Go-Ahead as it is a true future in UK rail until at least 2021, and we made good reflection of the way we run our business.
progress towards our bus operating profit target.
As a While our approach to our strategic priorities and sustainability has always result, Go-Ahead ended the year as a stronger Group been aligned, we have taken steps to improve the reporting of this.
Our former with enhanced prospects for the future.
five key sustainability areas of Safety, Environment, Passengers, Employees and Communities have now been aligned with our strategic priorities of Society, The Group performed very well in the financial year with our bus and Customers, Our people and Finance.
rail divisions both delivering strong results, which were significantly ahead Following the year end, we were pleased to be the first UK public transport of our initial expectations for the year and slightly ahead of the Boards latest operator awarded the Carbon Trusts triple accreditation for achievements expectations.
Overall operating profit was 103.2m, up 19.0% from last year.
in carbon, water and waste reduction.
This recognises our commitment to Bus operating profit of 83.5m supported our strategic target of 100m running environmentally responsible operations.
of bus operating profit by 2015 16.
Rail operating profit of 19.7m exceeded our original expectations in a year when all three of our franchises were in the A look back over the year final stages of their original contract terms.
Rail Since 2008, the Group has shown its resilience through the recession in A significant achievement in the year was our successful bid for the seven an environment of challenging economic conditions.
The economy is showing year Thameslink, Southern and Great Northern TSGN franchise which good signs of recovery in many parts of the country, particularly in the South we will operate through our joint venture, Govia, from 14 September 2014, East where our operations are focused.
We will seek to maximise the as GTR Govia Thameslink Railway.
From this date we start operating the opportunities which arise from improving market conditions.
Great Northern and Thameslink routes which stretch from Brighton to I believe in the fundamental strengths of UK public transport.
Since privatisation Bedford and London to Kings Lynn.
Our existing Southern franchise, under of the rail industry, the number of journeys made on the UKs railways has its current contract, will continue until July 2015 when it is integrated into GTR.
increased by 73% and more than five billion journeys are made on the UKs Not only does this mean we will retain the routes and customer relationships buses each year.
As a private operator we are experienced in delivering from the Southern franchise, we will also gain a significant revenue stream commercial services, meeting the needs of passengers and running our from the Great Northern and Thameslink services.
GTR is not two existing networks efficiently.
Overall, the rail industry makes a net contribution to the franchises merging into one: it is the start of a single, wholly new franchise Government through net premium payments.
This demonstrates the success with important objectives to deliver.
of the rail franchise model and the benefits it brings to the taxpayer.
In the Our bid scored highly on both price and quality measures.
We believe areas year, Southern alone contributed 173.1m to the Government with a total of particular strength were our timetable and train plan, targeted investment contribution over the life of the franchise of around 430m since 2009. in quality and reducing cost where appropriate without impacting on service.
The public transport industry plays an integral part in the UK economy.
Our bid was focused on improving services for passengers and we look forward to delivering benefits to our customers over the coming years.
Delivering our strategy Our strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing business and to grow Read more about the GTR franchise on page 43 the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
This strategy is underpinned by our strategic priorities of being a leading employer that provides high quality, locally focused passenger transport services, running our companies in a responsible manner, with strong financial discipline.
During the year, we delivered against these priorities in a range of areas including achieving the highest bus passenger satisfaction in the sector, Go-Ahead will be hosting an investor event on 21 October 2014 increasing the number of hybrid and other alternative fuel vehicles at which further detail about GTR will be provided.
to over 200 and increasing the proposed final dividend.
A video webcast and all literature presented will be available on our corporate website at www.
Read more about our strategy on page 17 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Other rail franchise bidding activity in the year included Transport for Londons In the year, we invested significantly in our bus operations.
We introduced 267 Crossrail and Docklands Light Railway franchises.
Whilst we were not appointed new vehicles to our fleet and upgraded our depot facilities.
In February, I was on either, we gained valuable experience through the bidding processes which pleased to open a new bus depot in Gateshead.
Over 500 Go North East is beneficial as we develop our plans for future rail franchise competitions.
drivers and engineers will operate from our 8.5m facility which will provide a modern working environment for our people and will enable us to improve We are working hard to deliver value from our existing franchises and are efficiency by combining two previous sites.
pleased with the good financial performance during the year.
It is only by achieving our profit targets that we are able to reinvest in our Following a challenging period for London Midland in 2012 13, I am pleased networks, improving customer experience, creating opportunities for our to report improved performance during the year.
The franchise delivered people and growing a larger and stronger business which generates superior the most improved punctuality performance in the London and South returns for our shareholders.
East network, having run 86.2% of services on time.
However, this franchise continues to face challenges.
During the year, London Midland began a Our operational performance reorganisation of management and administrative staff to reduce costs, Delivering excellent levels of customer service is important to us and I am resulting in an exceptional charge of 3.0m.
This was against a backdrop impressed by the standards of service across the Group.
Our bus division of reduced subsidy receipts, higher operational costs and increased achieved its highest ever passenger satisfaction score which, at 92%, is competition on the West Coast mainline.
industry leading and we maintained our high levels of service punctuality.
Bus In the period I was disappointed that rail passenger satisfaction scores dipped in two of our three franchises.
This has been an unusual year in Target 100 terms of performance with Southeastern, for example, delivering its best The end of the year marked the halfway point of our target period.
We ever customer satisfaction score of 84% in the first half of the year, followed continued to make good progress towards our target to grow bus operating by one of its lowest scores of 72% in the second half.
This illustrates the extent profit to 100m by 2015 16 in the year with bus operating profit up 11.0%.
to which our services can be impacted by factors outside our control, such as to 83.5m.
Deregulated bus contributed more to bus profit than regulated flooding and landslips, and infrastructure maintenance.
We are committed to in the year, in line with our projections towards achieving the target.
improving performance and delivering good quality service for our passengers.
Our bus operations continue to perform well, driving revenue through Through our joint performance board with Network Rail, we have taken steps initiatives such as smart and mobile-ticketing m-ticketing and delivering to address these issues and I am confident that improvements will be made.
In the year, efficiencies were made in a range of areas including employee productivity and procurement.
Last year, I set out our key assumptions underpinning the target.
We are tracking broadly in line with those assumptions and consider them to remain Carbon Trust triple standard valid as we go into 2014 15.
These assumptions are on an annual basis and Go-Ahead has become the first transport group to receive the may vary from year to year.
triple award accreditation from the Carbon Trust for achievements in carbon, water and waste reduction.
Target assumptions: Average annual deregulated bus revenue growth of 3.5% We have a well-deserved reputation as a leading organisation when it comes to environmental responsibility and sustainability.
Average annual regulated bus revenue growth of 2.5% We believe that our approach can give us competitive advantage Average annual cost inflation of 2.5-3.0% as well as saving costs and reducing our impact on the environment.
Cost efficiency savings of 10m by 2015 16 This triple accreditation is the direct result of the success of the No significant mileage growth in the regulated and deregulated business Groups Driving Energy Further campaign started in 2008 in partnership with the Carbon Trust.
A 12.2% reduction has been 2013 14 performance: achieved to date.
Like for like deregulated bus revenue growth of 4.3% Read more about the Carbon Trust triple award online Like for like regulated bus revenue growth of 7.5%, including a reallocation at www.
com  of BSOG representing 3.7%, not included within the target assumptions Cost increases broadly in line with inflation.
Some costs increased proportionately with mileage growth Insurance savings of 4.0m and other cost savings of 1.9m in the year, resulting in cumulative cost savings of 6.9m since 2012 13 Like for like regulated bus mileage growth of 1.6% and deregulated of 1.8% Although the target was based on organic growth, we continue to assess acquisition opportunities both in and outside London.
With the exception of the purchase of a small number of TfL route contracts in Dagenham, East London, in June 2013, the Group has made no acquisitions since announcing the target.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver our target by 2015 16. www.
com 7 Group Chief Executives review continued Group Chief Executives Q&A David Brown addresses some topical questions from our shareholders Q Why do you think you won the TSGN franchise?
Q What are your thoughts about the possibility of a change in government at next years general election?
We are an experienced operator and bidder in UK rail.
We A understand the market and, in our 17 years in the rail industry, A The run up to an election always presents the opportunity have demonstrated our ability to deliver high quality services on for people to look at the sector in a different way.
In our role as complex networks, working successfully with strategic partners.
operators we inform the debate, seeking to highlight the benefits It isnt possible to compare bidders submissions.
Our bid was of continued investment in public transport, the successes of the focused on improving services for passengers and scored highly industry since privatisation and the integral part UK public transport on both price and quality measures.
We look forward to delivering plays in our economy.
This is not just important around the time benefits to our customers over the coming years.
of elections: we are continually engaging with central and local government stakeholders.
Irrespective of which political party TSGN is the biggest franchise in the UK are you approaching your Q is in government, we have and will continue to work in partnership limit or can you win more?
with all forms of government.
We are shortlisted to bid for the Northern and TransPennine Express A Q Are you feeling pressure due to local authority cuts?
TPE franchises and there are many others coming up for tender in the next few years.
Our permanent bid team is considering upcoming Local authority budgets continue to be stretched and there has A opportunities.
We will view all options in the context of our existing been a reduction in tendered bus services, whilst commercial portfolio and other Group operations.
networks have continued to grow.
As the majority of our operations are commercial, we are not overly reliant on public sector funding.
See details of upcoming franchise competitions on page 16 In our deregulated bus business we have not seen a material change in levels of concessionary fare reimbursement and the Government Q You have increased the dividend this year.
What are your plans has committed to maintaining the Bus Service Operators Grant at for it going forward?
current levels until at least 2016.
We recognise the importance of our dividend to the investment A What is happening about the proposed local authority contract decision of many of our shareholders and I am pleased that, for Q the first time in six years, we have been able to propose an increase.
This reflects the Boards confidence in the Groups performance This time last year I spoke about the Tyne & Wear Integrated A and prospects as we deliver on our strategic objectives and we Transport Authoritys aspirations to introduce a bus contract scheme are pleased to return to our policy of progressive dividend growth.
At that time it had launched a consultation into the proposed scheme.
Twelve months on, a third consultation is Q You talked about growth outside your traditional markets, underway and the outcome is expected in the autumn.
We continue is there something in the pipeline?
to believe that passengers and taxpayers would be better served by This isnt a new stance for the Group.
We have always sought growth A a partnership arrangement between the local authority and and consider opportunities in all markets.
We arent interested in operators, working together to improve services.
planting flags or buying market share: we are looking for real value adding opportunities that will deliver shareholder value.
We are considering other opportunities while focusing on strengthening the Group by continuing our progress towards Target 100 in bus, the successful mobilisation and integration of the GTR franchise, and submitting strong bids for the Northern and TPE franchises.
In bus, I am pleased with the progression of our business-to-business Working in partnership relationships during the year.
Two of our bus companies already have schemes Collaboration and partnership working is a particular strength for Go-Ahead.
in place with local businesses and during 2014 15 all our other deregulated bus We have always worked closely with our key strategic partners and in the year companies will launch schemes to provide local companies with travel plans for we further strengthened these relationships.
We also place great importance their employees.
on our relationships with Government, TfL and local authority partners.
The complex nature of the rail industry requires collaborative working Innovation and technology between train operating companies, infrastructure companies and suppliers.
We continue to lead the way in the industry with our online journey planning There are times when we take on activities not traditionally considered part and ticketing solutions.
We understand that our customers use our services to of the operators role, such as large station management, train procurement facilitate their daily lives and our aim is to continue to improve the convenience and project management of major refurbishments.
During the year, the DfT of choosing public transport.
Acknowledging the growing demand for mobile benefited from our expertise in rolling stock procurement to deliver new apps and other means of providing up to date information on the move, we trains.
This is becoming an increasingly valuable partnership.
are constantly developing our approach in this field, always remaining focused The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information on customers needs.
Seven in ten people in the UK now have a smartphone The nature of our industry means that we face challenges at all levels of and the appetite for mobile technology is demonstrated by UK consumers the business every day and we believe our local teams are best-placed to buying more via smartphones than the rest of Europe.
During the year, we continued to build on our organisational capabilities.
We have the benefit of being a large organisation at the same time We have been developing smartcards and m-ticketing solutions for a number as having autonomous business units making local decisions.
of years now and our efforts in this area are going from strength to strength.
Since the launch of our first smartcard in 2011 around 550,000 people have I have great trust in all our local management teams across the business.
switched to the key, which is used across all of our large bus operations.
I am delighted to have appointed such an experienced management team to In less than two years, over 130,000 people have downloaded our m-ticketing lead GTR, particularly as many have been internal promotions from existing bus app to their mobile phones.
In October 2013, we launched an initiative enabling rail passengers to travel Read more about our people on pages 26 to 29 from stations served by Southern into central London, tapping in and out with the key.
Working with TfL in this industry first, we will be extending this Outlook to allow customers to use our smartcard on London Underground services, The new financial year has started well, with trading in line with the with a pilot scheme planned for later this year.
This is just the start of our plans Boards expectations.
to drive integrated transport, enabling passengers to move from bus to train We are entering an exciting period for the Group.
There is a lot of hard work to tube seamlessly, using one Go-Ahead product.
ahead of us and also a lot to look forward to.
It has been a very good year Adding to our suite of digital tools for customers we introduced our rail app, and I am confident we will continue to achieve more success going forward.
On Track, in January 2014, delivering highly personalised real-time information We remain confident in our ability to deliver our 100m bus operating profit and journey planning at the touch of a button.
The locally branded app was target by 2015 16.
We are already an efficient business and there are no easy designed with the help of passengers and rail user groups.
In addition to wins for us so we are introducing innovative technology, such as the flywheel, planning journeys, passengers can buy tickets and even claim compensation and further improvements in our business practices to deliver cost savings.
if their train is delayed.
In the first three months alone 100,000 people We will continue to invest in our marketing activity, improving customer downloaded On Track and take up has continued to grow, with close service, and delivering quality value for money offers to drive passenger to 150,000 people now using the app.
Read more about On Track on page 24 The coming year promises a great deal of activity in our rail division.
Following a short mobilisation period, GTR will run its first service on 14 September Ticketing and journey planning solutions are not the only areas where we 2014.
In the following months our focus will be on the successful delivery seek to innovate: we also strive to develop the technology we use on our of the franchise commitments, working closely with industry partners such buses and trains to make them more efficient and reduce the impact they as Network Rail and train manufacturer Siemens, and preparing for the have on the environment.
In 2012, we announced our pilot scheme using integration of our existing Southern franchise into GTR.
This has been a great success and has directly contributed Following the success of the TSGN bid, our experienced bid team continues to us securing two London bus contracts.
Over the next two to three years to work on forthcoming opportunities.
These include the Northern and we have plans to introduce flywheel systems to 500 additional buses, resulting TransPennine Express franchises which we were pleased to be shortlisted in over 10% of our fleet being powered by this leading edge technology.
This for in partnership with Keolis, following the year end.
We look forward significant investment is part of our longstanding commitment to reduce carbon to submitting our bids in spring 2015. emissions in the towns and cities we serve, as well has helping to control fuel costs.
In the year, we continued to work with local authorities to address their We hope to agree terms with the DfT shortly for the extension of targets around air quality and emissions.
Southeastern from October 2014 to June 2018 and we continue discussions with the DfT regarding the proposed extension of the London Midland Read more about the flywheel on page 20 franchise from March 2016 to June 2017.
The Group remains in a good financial position with strong cash generation Our people and a robust balance sheet, supporting our progressive dividend policy and Our people are the key to our success.
I am proud to be Chief Executive allowing flexibility to pursue value adding opportunities both within and of a business with such dedicated individuals and teams working to develop outside our traditional markets.
This strong position underpins the Boards themselves and also the Group and its prospects.
decision to propose an increased final dividend for the year, the first such We are committed to developing our people and this year we have placed increase since 2007 08. more focus on this priority than ever before.
We have great people in the business today but we need to plan for tomorrow.
We have detailed plans in place across our businesses designed to ensure we are attracting, retaining and developing high calibre individuals.
We have succession plans from the Board through all levels of the business, David Brown, and are using our leadership development programme to identify and Group Chief Executive develop individuals with potential across the Group.
3 September 2014 During the year, I was pleased to launch a Sharesave scheme for our employees, enabling them to share directly in the Groups success, to which we all contribute.
