Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR We achieved record sales and profits during the year and also made good strategic progress across the business.
Our strong operational performance led to Group revenue was: Performance summary profit before tax and exceptionals PBTE It has been another successful year for growth of 7.4%, adjusted earnings per share Greene King with record sales and profits.
growth of 8.3%, free cash flow generation, 1,301.6m In a 53 week year, we achieved profit growth after capital expenditure and dividends, of 11.9% in our key Retail business, further of67.9m and a 30bps increase in our profit per pub growth in Pub Partners and Operating profit before exceptional returnon capital employed ROCE to areturn to growth, on the back of market items was up: 9.2%, comfortably above our cost of capital.
We also made good strategic progress across the These strong financial metrics gave the business, culminating in the announcement, 5.0% board the confidence to announce a dividend at the end of the year, of the disposal of 275 per share increase of 6.8%, maintaining our non-core sites from Pub Partners.
long-term track record of dividend growth.
Adjusted earnings per share grew: Strong group revenue growth of 6.9% was Looking forward, while the impact of driven by a combination of Retail like-for-like 8.3% sellinga significant number of non-core LFL sales growth of 4.1%, supplemented pubs will slow growth in the new financial by the positive impact of acquisitions and year, a combination of an improving external transfers during the year, and a contribution Profit before tax was: environment, maintained sales momentum in from the strong volume growth in Brewing Retail and the continuation of our successful & Brands.
Staying close to our customers Retail expansion programme should deliver and meeting their needs through industry- 173.1m strong and sustainable earnings and dividend leading value, service and quality are key to growth for our shareholders.
our continued LFL sales growth and in the year this approach drove LFL sales growth Unless otherwise stated, all numbers in this across all three of our markets eating out, review are based on a 52 week year.
drinking out and staying out.
Most months of the year also delivered strong LFL sales Strategic progress growth, although customers spent less in We have now completed four years of our September after their summer spending, while current five-year strategic plan to improve February was held back by record rainfall.
growth and returns to our shareholders.
During the year we made further Our revenue growth converted into operating significant progress: profit growth of 5.0% at a slightly lower margin due to the impact of the changing channel mix 1.
Expanding Retail to 1,100 sites and as Retail grows its share of revenue, now at improving estate quality.
We acquired 74%, up from 72% last year, while Pub Partners or transferred in 48 sites to take the becomes a smaller part of the business.
estate to 1,032 pubs, restaurants and Encouragingly, despite the continued pressure hotels.
The average weekly take AWT on margins from input costs, we managed ofthe acquired or transferred sites was toexpand the Retail margin by ten basis 30k, 68% above the existing estate points bps.
Ofthese additional sites, 21 were 12 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2014 www.
co. uk Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Hungry Horse sites, six were Old English key menu items to ensure we stay ahead of Specifically, our future strategy will focus Inns OEI and five were Metropolitan our competitors.
As a result, we redesigned on six key elements: sites.
We remain on track to reach 1,100 our burger offer, upgraded the quality of our sites bythe end of the five-year plan.
steaks and added a number of healthier dishes 1.
O pen a minimum of 30 new Retail sites to our menus.
Importantly, we continue to per annum.
Reducing the Pub Partners estate, win awards for the quality of our fish and improving estate quality and chips, still our customers favourite dish.
R eposition and simplify the existing Retail maintaining our offer influence.
estate to optimise growth and returns.
Against an initial target of 1,200 sites, People are still looking for value and we wereached an estate of 1,165 by the year sawan increase in the share of our sales from 3.
F urther improve value, service end following the disposal of 133 non-core promotional activity, especially in food.
In andquality to our customers.
sites and the transfer of 15 sites to Retail.
Loch Fyne Seafood & Grill, we increased This helped to drive average EBITDA communication of our offers through electronic 4.
I nvestigate options to diversify the Retail perpub up 5.3%.
Just after the year end, direct mailing to our extensive customer offer, including potential acquisitions.
we completed the sale of a further 275 database, while across Retail we broadened non-core sites.
the number of sites with known value item 5.
Reduce Pub Partners to 750 sites.
M aintain investment in Brewing & Brands investment to strengthen our leadership In addition to addressing current trends, to drive market outperformance.
We again invested in our wehave been working closely with the coreale brands to drive own-brewed Trajectory Partnership, a leading consumer Current trading and outlook volume OBV growth and UK ale market insight and futures consultancy, to analyse After eight weeks of the new financial outperformance in Brewing & Brands.
and identify forthcoming consumer trends year, LFL sales in Retail were up 1.1%.
Weincreased our volume share of the UK in order to get a clearer understanding of Thisperformance mirrors the trends seen ale market by 70bps to 11.3%.
We also how eating out and drinking out might in recent industry reports, including the invested 750k in the St Edmund Brewhouse change between now and 2025. latest Greene King Leisure Spend Tracker, to supplement our core brands with a which showed a softening in GB eating and range of innovative ale brands to further The main trends we have identified include: drinking out from April to May.
We have meet the growing consumer demand for also seen regional differences in trading choice, provenance and quality.
Vertical families indicates the with LFL sales at Metropolitan, our risingimportance of inter-generational premium London pubs, up 7.4%, and LFL Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, leisure occasions.
sales overall in the south up, while LFL amortisation and exceptional items.
Digitalisation of leisure the increase in CGA Brand Index MAT to 19 April 2014, use of and access to technology in leisure.
We have seen strong starts to the year in ourother businesses.
Value hunters demonstrates that cost Strategy update core Pub Partners estate was up 3.5%, with of living is likely to remain a central As we near the end of our current five-year Brewing & Brands OBV, helped by strong consumer issue.
plan and given the pace of change in consumer Take Home sales due to the World Cup, behaviour, we are evolving a new five-year up6.2%.
Deregulation of life where different plan to take us to 2020, building on the activities are less associated with specific progress we have made so far.
Looking ahead to the rest of the year, we times of day.
anticipate an improvement in LFL Retail We have taken steps already to get even sales and continued momentum in both Pub The implications of these trends for our closer to our customers and to understand Partners and Brewing & Brands.
We also business are significant and include the their behaviour.
For example, we increased expect to add 50 to 60 new Retail sites in need to: investment in our digital platform and we the year.
As a result, we are confident of launched the Greene King Leisure Spend achieving another year of strong progress.
develop sites and offers that cater for Tracker during the year, reporting monthly different generations at the same occasions: GB household spending on eating out, drinking out and other leisure activities.
continue investing in our digital platform and our colleague training programmes Rooney Anand Customer behaviour is increasingly to meet the challenges of a more demanding Chief executive officer dynamic, presenting constant challenges to consumer, providing instant feedback 2 July 2014 the industry.
Consumers are going out less toother customers: but when they do they are demanding more maintain focus on delivering great value choice and more control over what they eat for our customers, even as the economy and drink.
Increasingly, they also like to improves: and treat themselves to more premium products.
We responded to these trends by broadening make our sites more convenient for our our offering in key drinks categories such customers by increasing the occasions they aspremium lager, craft ale, wine and cider, use our pubs by expanding our daytime and by offering increased customisation offer and becoming less reliant on traditional onour menus.
pub eating and drinking occasions.
Using the analysis of current and future Customers are also demanding higher consumer trends, we will evolve the current quality, more healthy options and better strategy to accelerate our Retail expansion consistency in what they eat and drink.
We and to move beyond conventional pub offers.
carried out two benchmarking exercises on www.
co. uk Annual report 2014 GREENE KING PLC 13
