16 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executives Report 2014 was a year of significant change and an exceptional step up in performance for Greggs 2014 was a year of significant change and an exceptional step up in performance for Greggs as we began to implement our new strategic plan centred on the growing food-on-the-go market.
We made structural changes that are already delivering more effective and efficient operations and have improved both our food offer and the shop experience for customers.
Market conditions have been more favourable with increased employment levels, growing disposable incomes, low input cost inflation and benign weather for most of the year.
Like-for-like sales have grown throughout the year and were particularly strong in the second half.
This, combined with structural cost reductions, has resulted in record underlying profits for the financial year.
Financial performance Total sales increased to 804.0 million, a rise of 5.5 per cent, and We have improved both our food like-for-like sales grew by 4.5 per cent in the year.
Excluding the impact of accounting for a 53rd week in 2014 our comparable offer and the shop experience for total sales grew by 3.9 per cent, reflecting the impact of net shop our customers.
Operating profit before exceptional items grew by 40.0 per cent to 58.1 million and pre-tax profit before exceptional items grew by 41.1 per cent to 58.3 million.
As previously announced, we had an exceptional charge of 8.5 million reflecting one-off costs resulting from structural changes in our supply chain and support areas.
Our Finance Director, Richard Hutton, comments on financial performance in more detail in the Financial Review.
Market background: Growing food-on-the-go market Market conditions improved during 2014 with continued recovery in the UK economy coupled with low inflation leading to rising real disposable consumer income.
These general market conditions were helped by more benign weather conditions than the previous year when we suffered from snow in the winter and a heatwave in the summer.
Our improved like-for-like sales performance has shown the Greggs brand can win in the highly competitive foodon-the-go market.
We believe the overall market remains in growth with no sign of a slowdown in competitor new shop openings.
The Greggs brand occupies a strong position in the food-onthe-go market with a reputation for fresh and tasty products at good value and great customer service.
Greggs ranks number one in the market for savoury and sweet bakery snacks, number two for sandwiches and first in the fast-growing breakfast segment.
Greggs appeals to a broad customer base and with our improved offer, alongside growing consumer incomes, we are seeing increasing numbers of customer visits and growth in transaction values.
Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Strategic direction: Focus on food-on-the-go In the summer we completely overhauled and relaunched our Our strategic plan, announced in 2013, focuses on growing entire sandwich range with improved recipes and enhanced like-for-like sales by improving the customer proposition and the packaging.
This included the launch of our new sub-brand of quality of our existing estate and making our operation simpler Balanced Choice products offering healthier choices with fewer and more efficient.
The plan has four key pillars: than 400 calories.
Sandwich sales surpassed our expectations following the relaunch.
Sales of our Balanced Choice lines Great tasting fresh food.
reached circa 55 million for the year creating a strong platform A great shopping experience.
for future development in this strategically important range.
Throughout the year we continued our programme of improving recipes in our most popular lines in the traditional sweet and These pillars are all supported by our approach to keeping our savoury ranges with positive customer reaction helping to people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
New flavours in traditional products have also been successful, such as our new steak The strategic plan represents a major programme of change over and cheese roll, launched in November, which has quickly a period of up to five years and we are tracking progress against become a bestseller.
a number of key targets: Alongside this activity we successfully launched new products Driving like-for-like sales growth.
in food-on-the-go categories such as fresh soups and hot Achieving targeted returns on our increased investment sandwiches which are aimed at creating new reasons to in shop refits.
Delivery of operational and supply chain efficiencies.
Achieving the planned benefits from our investment Value in processes and systems.
Outstanding value for money remains a key attribute of the Greggs brand and we have continued to build our reputation In 2014 we exceeded targets in all of these areas: for market-leading menu deals which drive growth and average transaction values.
We maintained our 2 breakfast meal deal Strongest like-for-like sales growth since 2007. for the fifth year running, again driving double digit growth Exceeded refit investment criteria by a third.
as this meal occasion continues to grow in importance to our Completed organisational and supply chain restructuring food-on-the-go customers.
We once again extended the range ahead of schedule.
of sandwiches included in our 3 sandwich meal deal.
We also Exceeded process and systems investment benefit target introduced a new menu deal offering coffee and any sweet item by 1 million.
for 2 and this is growing strongly in popularity.
Delivering our plans Finally, although we are no longer focused on the take-home bakery market, we have successfully launched a range of 1.
Great tasting fresh food outstanding value impulse packs selling to food-on-the-go customers for sharing at home or at work.
Examples include our mini doughnut and mini yum-yum packs, both priced at 1.
2015 product initiatives We have a strong pipeline of further product developments planned for 2015.
As an example, we have just launched our new fresh soups including Chorizo and Fire Roast Pepper and introduced our new meal deal offering coffee and any savoury snack for just 2.
In the coming weeks we will be extending our Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we leverage our breakfast offer and launching new options under our Balanced heritage in fresh bakery to compete successfully in the food-onChoice label.
The Greggs product offer is differentiated by the way that we freshly prepare food each day in our shops and so 2.
Great shopping experience deliver an Always Fresh.
experience that others find hard to match.
Changes to product range We continue to make changes to our product range which have been successful in driving sales growth.
In February 2014 we launched our improved coffee blend which, in extensive nationwide blind tasting, four out of five customers judged to be as good as or better than their favourite coffee As well as improvements to our products we have continued brand.
Coffee sales were our fastest growing product category to make changes in our shop operations to meet the needs last year and our reputation for freshly-ground bean-to-cup of our food-on-the-go customers better.
For example, we coffee at exceptional value continues to grow with sales in the have invested in increased labour hours to improve availability period leading up to Christmas reaching a new high of 1 million particularly at lunch time and continued with our programme per week.
to increase trading hours where we see opportunity.
18 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executives Report continued Estate changes and refurbishments Looking ahead we will continue to reduce the structural costs We opened 50 new shops including 20 franchised units in the in our business by focusing on making our operations simpler year and closed 71, resulting in 1,650 shops trading at 3 January and more efficient.
The opportunities to do so will increasingly 2015.
85 per cent of our new shop locations were away from overlap and merge with the benefits arising from our programme high streets such as in retail and industrial parks, motorway of investment in new systems and processes.
In our supply chain service stations and travel hubs.
At the end of 2014 we had the direction of change will continue to be towards consolidation 45 franchised shops operating in travel and other convenience in manufacturing where we are not capacity-constrained whilst locations and continue to see this as a route to further growth.
growing logistics capacity to support shop expansion plans.
We completed 213 shop refurbishments during the year.
Improvement through change were ahead of our expectations and we anticipate progressing with the estate improvement programme at a similar rate in the year ahead.
In 2015 we expect to open 80 - 100 shops including further development of our franchise partnerships, and close around 60 - 80 shops in the year.
Our shop opening and closure programme is progressively improving the quality and performance of our estate whilst rebalancing it towards more sustainable long-term locations by increasing our presence in Investment in systems travel, leisure and work-centred catchments.
We continue to In 2014 we successfully implemented the first two elements of believe in the opportunity for increased shop numbers, with our our major investment programme in the process and systems longer-term target being more than 2,000 in the UK, and expect platforms that will enable us to compete more effectively in the to return to growth in net shop numbers in the second half.
These first steps related to workforce management and supplier relationship management.
Greggs Rewards loyalty scheme Both have delivered benefits in excess of our initial expectations We successfully launched our digital customer loyalty scheme and show potential for further improvements as we harness their Greggs Rewards in February 2014 and were awarded Loyalty full capabilities.
Programme of the Year at the 2014 Retail System Awards.
Participation continues to build as customers benefit from a During 2014 we selected SAP as our core ERP software supplier more convenient method of paying and receive product rewards and are now planning the implementation of modules designed for shopping with us.
We are beginning to learn more about to improve processes around shop ordering and customer customer behaviour from this database and expect to build contact.
In total this is a significant multi-year change programme on this in the years ahead to enable us to continue making for the business, which we are carefully planning and executing.
improvements to the customer experience.
We have made a good start and are encouraged by the early results.
We continue to expect the programme to make an 3.
Simple and efficient operations annual net contribution of around 6.0 million once the key functionality is in place around four years from now.
Keeping our people, communities and values at the heart of our business The progress we have made this year is in no small part related to the significant amount of change that the business has undergone and I do not underestimate the impact that this has had in many areas.
Change is a necessary part of any healthy business and we will continue to adapt to ensure that we remain Alongside our improvements to products and customer service competitive for the long term.
I would like to thank all of our we made significant progress last year in our drive to make our people for the role that they have played in returning the business supply and support functions simpler and more efficient.
In our to profitable growth.
supply chain we consolidated our 79 in-store bakeries into our existing regional bakery network completing the programme in As a business one of the ways in which we share the benefits October, well ahead of schedule.
In support areas we reduced of our success is through our profit sharing scheme, which our regional structure from seven to four regions and reorganised distributes 10 per cent of our profit to employees.
I am delighted several central support teams.
that our people will be sharing a record 6.4 million as a result of our performance in 2014.
All of this involved substantial change across the organisation and I am proud of the professionalism and sensitivity our teams In 2014 our people once again made a difference to our local displayed in implementing these changes, upholding Greggs communities.
Around 350,000 was raised in our shops and long-standing values of fairness, consideration and respect.
our bakeries for the Greggs Foundation and this, combined with donations from the Company, enabled the Greggs Foundation The changes outlined above resulted in one-off redundancy to distribute more than 1.5 million in support of a wide range costs and asset impairment charges amounting to 8.2 million of local community initiatives.
These included the award-winning in 2014.
These have been classified as part of the exceptional Greggs Breakfast Club programme, which provided over three charge of 8.5m in our accounts.
In 2014 the net benefit of million free wholesome breakfasts to children across 304 primary the changes, excluding the one-off costs, was 2.9m.
Partnership work has been key to the growth of we expect this benefit to annualise at around 6.0 million.
Breakfast Clubs and 115 clubs are now supported by partner Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 organisations who share our ambition to improve the learning Outlook for 2015 opportunities for children in disadvantaged areas.
2015 will be a year of further change for Greggs as we continue to move forward with our focus on the food-on-the-go market.
This would not have been possible without the continued Market conditions remain helpful and the outlook for the first generosity of our customers, who also helped Greggs to raise half suggests that low inflation should continue to support over 1 million for the North of England Childrens Cancer disposable incomes.
Research Fund, the BBC Children in Need appeal, Disasters Emergency Committee appeals and the Royal British Legions This year has started strongly and like-for-like sales in the eight Poppy appeal collectively in 2014. weeks to 28 February 2015 have grown by 6.3 per cent, partly reflecting the wet start to 2014.
We expect that our initiatives will Additional ways in which we help to make a difference to local continue to deliver growth, although we are mindful that the sales communities include the development of a number of work comparatives become stronger through the year.
inclusion programmes through which we have helped to promote the employability skills of 370 people, resulting in 87 people Costs were well controlled in 2014 and we go into 2015 with being offered paid employment.
We have also continued further benefits to come from our actions taken around making our support for the Business in the Communitys Business the business simpler and more efficient.
Food input costs are Connectors scheme and are proud to have seconded eight likely to be deflationary for the first half of the year and we will Business Connectors so far.
continue to invest in improving the quality of our estate and in upgrading our processes and systems.
We continued to make good progress in the remaining three key areas of our social responsibility agenda: creating a great Overall we are confident of delivering a further year of good place for our people to work, food our customers can trust growth and progress against our strategic plan in 2015. and reducing our impact on the world around us.
2014 highlights include continuing to share 10 per cent of profits Roger Whiteside with our people, donating 512 volunteer days and providing 90 Chief Executive per cent of our management team with career development 4 March 2015 training.
We have successfully grown sales of our Balanced Choice products to circa 55 million, rolled out the provision of transparent nutritional information and published a Farm Animal Welfare Strategy and Ethical Sourcing Statement.
We are also pleased to report that our continued focus on reducing waste to landfill has seen us surpass our target to recycle 90 per cent of waste from production sites we now divert 100 per cent of waste from these sites.
