GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report strateGy CHief exeCutiVes introduCtion Sales of 939.7m were up 7.9% year-on-year and halfords Retail delivered a strong up 6.5% on a LFL basis.
Group gross margin fell by performance in the year as the 110 basis points to 53.7%.
Total operating costs rose by 6.9% primarily as a result of the increase in storebusiness repositions to offer a colleague investment and incentives.
Investment in the  customer expansion of our Autocentres business continued as the business added 20 centres net.
the work undertaken before finance costs, tax and non-recurring items in areas such as stock availability, EBIT were 77.8m, which compares with 78.1m in the prior year.
product ranges and marketing was Earnings before non-recurring items, finance costs, accompanied by a material uplift in tHe CyClinG depreciation and amortisation EBITDA were down investment.
Profit before tax and non-recurring CateGory Was tHe items was 72.8m and earnings per share before The Retail categories are in better shape and the non-recurring items were 28.8p, up 1.1% and 4.0% standout perforMer Retail management team has been strengthened respectively.
Getting into Gear thRouGhout the yeaR, has got off to a busy start and the early signs are Group inventory and capital expenditure continued encouraging: there will be much work to do over to be managed tightly, although the planned levels of with lfl GroWtH of the coming years.
New leadership of Autocentres is additional Retail stock to improve on-shelf availability 19.4% ReflectinG aligned with the Groups service-based priorities so led to a 12.8% increase in Group inventories on the that, in the fullness of time, Halfords will offer an even prior period: Autocentres inventory was up 0.1m on fuRtheR maRKet-shaRe better end-to-end customer experience.
Against the backdrop of a significant uplift in investment and a one-off tax settlement of Gains.
suMMary of Group results 21.0m, the cashflow performance was robust with Halfords Retail produced a strong sales performance free cashflow of 39.5m generated against 71.8m with like-for-like LFL revenue growth of 7.6% and in the prior year.
Net debt at the end of the year was online growth of 17.7% reflecting a number of factors down 11.0m at 99.6m, with a non-lease-adjusted including improved stock availability, colleague 12-month net debt: EBITDA ratio of 1.0:1 versus engagement, stronger product ranges and a more- 1.1:1 in the prior period.
Average weather conditions were also more favourable for Cycling The Board has recommended a final dividend of during the year.
Despite improvements in the second 9.1 pence per share FY13: 9.1 pence, taking half that delivered 2.0% LFL sales growth, the the full-year dividend to 14.3 pence per share.
If Autocentres performance did not reflect its marketapproved, the final dividend will be paid on 1 August share potential over the full year, with FY14 revenues 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of increasing by 8.6%, accompanied by flat LFL sales: business on 4 July 2014.
In the light of the guidance new leadership of Autocentres was appointed at the given twelve months ago, the Board will now look to end of the year.
maintain a c. 2 dividend cover over the medium 16 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 term, growing full-year dividends broadly in line with operational reVieW: autoCentres the Results earnings per share.
Given the operating cash flow Total Autocentres revenues were up 8.6% and, on a profile of the business the Board also now anticipates illustRate how LFL basis, down 0.1%.
Despite improvements in the the ratio of future interim and final dividend payments second half, this performance reflected operational to move toward 30:70. halfoRds is BeGinninG and market challenges the business faced.
23 new Autocentres were opened and three were closed operational reVieW: retail to Build Both its in the year, taking the total number of Autocentre Sales were 803.1m, up 7.7% on the previous year locations to 303.
Halfords is committed to the PRoPosition and and 7.6% on an LFL basis.
continued investment in the Autocentres business to a siGnifiCantlyIn FY14 Cycling was the largest Retail category by secure medium-term growth, though the business sales and was the standout performer throughout plans to refocus the centre-opening programme on enHanCed retail the year.
LFL growth of 19.4% reflected improved fewer and larger new centres.
Halfords will continue to execution, a successful Christmas for childrens bikes, close sub-optimal centres as a matter of course.
more-conducive weather conditions and sustained operational reVieW suMMary interest in Cycling as a leisure activity.
The cycle offer The Halfords Retail performance was strong, was enhanced during the year, with refreshes of the driven by self-help actions and, although weather Apollo and Boardman ranges particularly engaging conditions were favourable for the Cycling category, customers.
Representing over one third of premiumthey were adverse for Car Maintenance.
The results cycle sales, Cycle-To-Work revenues grew by 14.8%.
illustrate how Halfords is beginning to build both Halfords also implemented a major acceleration of its proposition and a  Retail its presence in the Cycling Parts, Accessories and customer experience.
With Autocentres focusing Clothing market PACs.
This activity was combined on the enhancement of its service proposition, with the appointment of additional Cycling capability, underpinned by further investment, the business will including the creation of a Head of PACs role and, with deliver a more consistent and engaging experience a more-effective marketing approach, every Cycling for its Autocentre customers.
sub-category grew, including 15.8% growth in PACs, 28.6% growth in Cycle Repair and 29.9% growth in Halfords Business reVieW Premium Bike sales.
Halfords mission is to Help and Inspire our LFL sales of Car Maintenance products and services Customers with their Life on the Move within the grew by 4.9%.
Sales in the second half were following categories: Supporting Drivers of Every hampered by mild winter conditions versus a cold Car, Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age and Equipping and snowy prior year.
However the sale and fitting of Families for their Leisure Time.
bulbs, blades and batteries 3Bs again represented Equipping Families for their Leisure Time gives the the largest single element of the category and flexibility to extend the range, introduce innovative growing demand emanated from the building of products and leverage space.
However the vast awareness of the wefit service, this year via the TV majority of managements focus is currently on Auto and radio Cheaper than a Favour campaign.
and Cycling as these markets are significant and, Car Enhancement LFL revenues decreased by 0.1%.
with strong execution, management anticipates Representing nearly a quarter of category sales, Car sustainable opportunities for growth.
Cleaning revenues grew by 13.7%, boosted by the The Retail strategy, Getting into Gear, is based on re-merchandising of the range to emphasise the the following five elements designed to significantly strength of Halfords branded offer.
Key price points enhance the customer experience: were also targeted to improve value perception.
Sat Nav sales, down 8.1% in the year, continued to be 1.
Service Revolution introducing a step change impacted by the effects of a  in customer service across Halfords stores market, whilst Audio sales grew 1.1%.
The H Factor reasserting our proposition Travel Solutions LFL revenues increased by 2.1%, authority to Support Drivers of Every Car, Inspire with additional clearance and more-compelling Cyclists of Every Age and Equip Families for Their offers driving improved sales of camping and travelLeisure Time equipment products.
Stores Fit to Shop investing to raise the Online Retail revenues grew by 17.7% and Halfords store estate to a standard the business represented 11.3% of total Retail sales FY13: is proud of 10.3%.
The growth was driven by the first phase of st 4.
21 Century Infrastructure systems and Halfords.
coms relaunch in November 2013, leading infrastructure to support service and sales to  conversion rates.
Whilst over half of online Retail sales were represented by 5.
Click with the Digital Future creating a the Cycling category, a consistent 88% of online service-led digital proposition orders were collected in store during the period.
In the year total in-store service income included within all of the above categories increased by 17.4% to 24.3m, with the majority of revenues flowing from 3Bs fitting and Cycle Repair.
indd 17 12 06 2014 14:21:10 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview GettinG into Gear inteGrated annual report for the Year ended 28 March 2014 strateGiC report strateGy CHief exeCutiVes introduCtion Continued The business also focused on the balance between serViCe reVolution 1 2 third-party and private-label brands.
The third-party Highlights include a new recruitment process that 3 Tenn brand in Cycling clothing was introduced in involves centralised online application, telephone the period, whilst the upweighted focus on Krcher screening, interviews in store with role play and an pressure washers compared against a reduced focus in-store audition before an appointment is made.
on the Halfords-branded offer in Car Cleaning.
Global iMaGes Since launch nearly 55,000 applicants were screened brands such as General Electric were also introduced for around 1,000 vacancies.
This new approach 1 Further wefit growth.
within the Car Maintenance category.
Attention has significantly raised the quality of new colleagues.
2 Improved customer been paid to the execution of marketplace offers experience from our The 3-Gears training programme was launched with at the front of store, as well the introduction of Service Revolution.
virtually all eligible colleagues having completed Gear 1 interactive merchandising.
3 Training fuels our by the end of the year.
A number of colleagues began differentiated offer.
stores fit to sHop Gear 2 before the end of the year.
50% of colleagues are anticipated to complete Gear 2 by March 2015.
Three refreshed stores were opened at the end of July Two colleagues per store will pass the Gear 3 guru 2013 wherein Halfords created a modern, engaging level by the end of FY16.
and friendlier store environment that encourages browsing and more interaction with colleagues.
At the Colleague engagement is central to the Getting Into period end, 27 stores were trading in the new format, Gear strategy, so it was particularly encouraging to see with a further c. 50 stores planned for refresh in the new an increase in the latest Group colleague engagement financial year.
The stores refreshed so far are delivering survey score to 80% FY13 77%.
The result was results in line with managements plans and investment underpinned by the good news that Halfords was criteria.
Halfords will continue improving its portfolio recently voted as one of the 25 Best Big Companies of Cycling departments by the end of FY16 after 100 to Work For in the UK see The Sunday Times Best were refreshed in the period.
These scores were st reflected in a rise in the Retail net promoter score to 21 Century infrastruCture 72% from a run rate of around 55% in the prior year.
A key focus within the Getting Into Gear programme is infrastructure, particularly across IT systems and tHe H faCtor capability.
Examples of the progress made include A revitalisation of the Retail product range was the upgrade to SAP, the core Retail operating system, enhanced by the appointment of a new Commercial completed in May 2014.
New chip & PIN pads in Director in September 2013.
Examples of the refresh store saved customers an average of 19 seconds in the period included upgraded ranges of Boardman per transaction, and to help colleagues, the business and Apollo cycles, trials of cycle finance in-store, installed laptop computers in stores to make it easier extended ranges online, the introduction of wearable to progress through the 3-Gears training programme.
fitness technology and a revised private-label hierarchy New VOIP technology across the store estate also that included the new Halfords Essentials brand.
enabled colleagues to serve customers more effectively and at reduced cost.
halfoRds cReated a Modern, enGaGinG and friendlier store enVironMent that encouRaGes BRowsinG and moRe inteRaction with colleaGues.
com halfords Group plc stock code: hfd annual report and accounts 2014 The appointment of a new Supply Chain Director was worlds largest bike trade-in event, with over 10,000 followed by a trial to deliver more frequently to store, unwanted bikes donated at Halfords stores, diverting aWard WinninG year benefitting stock availability and potentially saving a over 150 tonnes of waste to a sustainable alternative We were finalists in the Business Charity Awards significant element of courier cost related to the Click and generating 1.5m in new bike sales.
In addition in two categories: Charity Partnership Retail & Collect proposition.
to more trade-in events in FY15, Halfords will also and Leisure: and CSR Team.
The Business trial accepting bike donations at over 75 stores and Charity Awards are run by Third Sector magazine CliCk WitH tHe diGital future will continue fundraising to support the 10 it costs to recognise the outstanding contribution made The goal of Click with the Digital Future is to create to send a bike to Africa, with over 90,000 raised so by businesses in the UK to good causes.
a much-improved online and omnichannel Retail far.
In FY15 stores will also receive community hours experience.
Phase One of the website relaunch went to support additional local-community activity, helping live in November 2013, with a different tone of voice them to build closer relationships with their local to make the website more emotionally engaging and communities.
A new home page included more-intuitive Halfords has also been confirmed as the Official navigation to help all customers find what they are Mechanics Partner for the 2014 Sky Ride Big Bike looking for more easily and with far fewer clicks.
The series, spanning 14 events nationwide and supporting system of checkout was reshaped to help customers over 100,000 cyclists this summer.
These free one-day complete their transaction more simply: this was events offer cyclists of all ages and abilities the chance designed to reduce the risk of abandoned baskets.
to ride their bike on traffic-free streets or on cycle Customers also now pay for their entire Click & paths and parks in the heart of towns and cities across Collect transactions in store.
Halfords cycle mechanics will be a key part of will be completed in due course, including socialthe day, keeping cyclists on the move assisting with We are also pleased to have been confirmed as network interactions and upgraded my account essential adjustments, cabling and tube replacements.
an International CSR Excellence Award winner, functionality.
in recognition of our commitment to community Halfords is also trialling a Cycle Repair Academy in autoCentres and corporate social responsibility.
Onley Prison, where a number of prisoners close to The investment plan continued as new centres their release dates are being trained as bike mechanics were opened and the business looks to improve the with a view to being employed in Halfords stores, once consistency of in-centre service.
This programme will provide Halfords with directed to improving the infrastructure, from new potentially very loyal, trained and motivated colleagues IT systems to more-efficient processing systems, whilst at the same time supporting the broader goal of enabling more effective centre management.
As service rehabilitation of offenders.
is central to the Halfords strategy, colleague incentives were changed in the year to embed customer-service Current aCtiVity metrics, such as net promoter scores: colleague As Halfords becomes more of a Cycling business in the engagement continued to improve this year.
first half of the year, a Summer Of Cycling lies ahead, with major launches imminent within the Halfords This customer-centric plan is vital as the business cycle range.
The fastest growing and second-largest extends its differentiation from key competitors.
volume brand in the range, Carrera, will undergo a Autocentres will also better leverage the relationship complete refresh in the summer.
I am particularly with the Retail stores.
Andy Randall was appointed pleased to see Kona and Mongoose, two formidable in March 2014 to lead the business and is focused global Cycling brands, added to our growing list of on delivering a  experience for superb cycle options.
The Pinarello brand of cycles will Autocentre customers.
soon be available at 43 stores with around 50 models CoMMunity enGaGeMent onlin today.
These launches will coincide with a busy This was the first year of a major step-up in activity summer of Cycling events, with the recent Giro dItalia designed to leverage Halfords specialist credentials in Big Start in Belfast, the Tour fide Frances Le Grande local areas through community engagement.
Dpart in Yorkshire in July and the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow in July and August.
In FY14 over 20,000 children and parents attended a Halfords Retails auto business also has a busy period Kids Bike Workshops in store to learn the basics of ahead, with the launch of Car Parts Direct by the end how to look after their bike, with 97% of parents likely of summer 2014, wherein around 130,000 car-part to recommend the summer workshop to others.
In SKUs will be available for prompt pick-up at Halfords FY15, together with the Easter holiday, stores will run stores or through home delivery.
A number of smaller the workshop in the summer and during the October accretive opportunities will be progressed, including half-term week, promoted through schools and links the sale of powersport and leisure batteries, the sale with childrens organisations such as UK Youth and online of car registration plates as well as the ranging of Childrens University.
Halfords now partners with the scooter helmets.
Scouts Association and supports the Cub Cyclist Activity badge.
Building on this success, Halfords will On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all also offer a tailored workshop in schools, focused on colleagues for their immense contribution and year-six pupils as they progress through Bikeability commitment to the progress of Halfords and the formerly called cycling proficiency, as well as teachers implementation of the plan to reposition the seeking additional life skills to support their pupils business.
It has been a pleasure to work with you over transition to senior school.
The partnership with Re Cycle the charity that sends unwanted bikes to Africa went from strength to Matt Davies strength.
In FY14 Halfords helped Re Cycle double Chief Executive the number of containers sent to Africa through the 21 May 2014 19 23157.04 Proof 7 10-06-2014 Halfords AR2014-Strategic Report.
indd 19 12 06 2014 14:21:13 shareholder strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report strateGic report information financials Governance risk performance strateGy overview
