08HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CHief exeCutiveS review FOCUSED ON BUILDING SCALE ALISTAIR COX, CHIEF EXECUTIVE Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 08HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 09 we HAve A CLeAr PLAn to broAdLY doubLe grouP Profit Current Core future mAteriAL next wAve network Profit driverS Profit driverS CritiCAL AUSTRALIA JAPAN 20 OTHER USA GERMANY CANADA HAYS COUNTRIES CHINA UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE RUSSIA BRAZIL OTHER LATAM todAY 35 YeArS 510 YeArS ongoing in this section we look in detail at This breadth and diversity of platform, Our roll-out of our world-class IT thetheme of this years Annual report, the deep expertise of every one of our Contracting business from Germany to APlatform for growth, Powered consultants and our ability to make rapid several new markets including Canada, byexperts.
adjustments to our business as we see Japan and France, is an example of how markets change is what ultimately enables we leverage our network and expertise to This theme sits right at the heart of our us to deliver financial outperformance good effect.
On the following pages we strategy.
We are a business providing through the cycle, not just at any one time explore how we approach each of these deep expertise to our candidates and or in any one market.
aspects, before I review the Groups clients, helping them take important performance in 2014 and then finally decisions about their careers and the Having established this platform, our task set out my priorities for 2015. skilled resources they need.
Over the last now is to leverage it fully and capitalise decade, we have also very purposefully onthe investments we have made.
Our Powered bY exPertS built a platform that takes that expertise aspiration is to broadly double our profits across the world and into many different over the five years to June 2018, and to Business model review industries and sectors.
This platform is diversify from where we derive those turn to PAge 10 unique in todays recruitment world and profits.
That means we will now concentrate provides us with the best possible routes less on establishing new businesses and SeCtor LeAding teCHnoLogY to growth available in our industry today.
more on building critical mass across the Business model review Group, focusing our resources on those The last ten years have seen us build a turn to PAge 12 areas which offer the greatest contribution.
diversified recruitment platform designed With a network of over 8,200 people, to help our clients find the skilled talent our worLd CLASS brAnd working in 237 offices across 33 countries, they need, regardless of geography, skillBusiness model review and with well-established market positions set or contract form.
To achieve this we in 20 different industry sectors, we enter turn to PAge 14 have invested in a number of key areas.
this new phase from a position of strength, Internationally, we have expanded our but there is more to be done.
Our business network from 11 countries in 2002 to 33 is based on our people so we continue to today.
At the same time we have grown invest in hiring and training the very best our expertise to cover 20 specialist areas talent who aspire to work at Hays.
We also of skills and built a business equally capable believe that even the very best people can of helping our clients find permanent be more effective if they are equipped employees as well as contract or with the very best tools, so we invest in temporary skills.
This broad diversification technology to give them an additional is important to us because it means we are edge over their competitors.
Our brand is well placed to understand and help solve one of our most valuable assets and we the recruitment challenges faced by our continually invest to build our reputation clients and candidates every day.
However, as the market leader in specialist it also provides us with a balance across recruitment worldwide.
Finally, with a markets at different stages of their own business as broad and diverse as ours, we cycle and maturity, access through the also enjoy the advantage of being able to cycle to multiple industries and an ability spread good ideas and practices across to leverage the increasing demand for the globe.
flexible labour that we see across an increasing number ofeconomies.
10HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 A PLAtform for growtH POWERED BYExPERTS Hiring tHe beStPeoPLe Hays is the ultimate people business and as such our ability to attract, develop, enable and retain the very best consultants and managers in our industry is vital to our success.
We investa significant amount of time andeffort to identify and hire the best people with the potential to excel and ultimately become leaders of our business.
We are engaged in attracting top talent and haveworked to position specialist recruitment as a career of choice and tap into new talent pools, using schemes such as the Hays Challenge to attract talent in todays 'Generation Y' marketplace.
Generally we hire at an inexperienced level and focus on providing training from day one to ensure our consultants become productive fee earners as soon aspossible.
com hays-challenge HAYS ICONS HAYS WHITE CMYK Senior mAnAgerS in ourfAStforwArd And AdvAnCed mAnAgement trAining ProgrAmmeS 211 Laptop Email SmartPhone Learning Forward Backward Calendar Tools Newsletter Document FormPublished Material Video Useful Links AnnouncementProcess Globe Search Help FAQ Target Charity Box File Folder Handshake Light Bulb Lock  Contact Us Nearest oce Speak to a ConsultantForum Networking Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 11 10HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 diverSitY To us diversity means understanding and reflecting the community in which we operate, building loyalty with our colleagues, candidates and clients.
Age, gender, ethnicity, religion, education and beliefs are all valued and everyone has the opportunity to contribute to our success as a business and fulfil their own potential.
Our aim is to create an open, honest and vibrant working environment and to ensure that all our colleagues feel part of Haysand are respected as individuals.
As a global business, with HAYS workforCe operations in 33 countries, our employee population mALe femALe reflects the world we live in, with around 80 different 39% 61% nationalities represented in our global workforce.
trAining And deveLoPment performance standards and strict rankings Training does not stop after a consultants within teams and between desks, and we lead induction and we offer meritocratic career from the front with managers who are also fee paths with unparalleled opportunities.
Additionally, in order to maximise the train consultants to be specialists in their area, value of these key people we actively promote and to become trusted advisers to their clients international and domestic mobility, and candidates.
We are particularly focused identifying the appropriate people for moves on the recruiter-manager levels of our to best deploy resources around the Group.
business: people who are revenue generators but who have the new and very different challenge of also having to manage a team of wHY tHiS mAtterS consultants.
Each of these people go through Ensuring our consultants are as productive specific, tailored management development and effective as they can be is the ultimate programmes.
For those people we identify as driver of our financial performance.
In the future potential leaders of our business, we addition to the right hiring, development run a mini-MBA course designed and led by and reward, we equip our consultants leading business schools.
Equally, throughout withthe best tools to be able to excel a consultants career and at all levels, we focus intheir roles.
on industry specialism and business development training, innovation and the use of new technologies.
HigH PerformAnCe CuLture Critical to our ability to drive growth is reinforcing a high performance culture in everyHays business.
We believe in personal accountability so all fee earners areprimarily 75 rewarded on their own billing, rather than individuALS in fY 2014 team bonuses, and have a clear line of sight reLoCAted internAtionALLY between results and reward.
We take an active witHin our buSineSS approach to target setting with minimum 12HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 A PLAtform for growtH SECTOR LEADING TECHNOLOGY An evoLving LAndSCAPe both within our business and to the world In 2008, Hays undertook an assessment of atlarge, and is future-proofed to ensure the technology landscape in the world of thatwhatever may be the next evolution, recruitment.
What soon became clear was wecan respond quickly.
In the back office we that, in line with most other industries and focused on automating processes, whether indeed most other aspects of life, almost that be electronic timesheet capture and every area of the jobs market was becoming authorisation, invoice presentation to clients, increasingly digitally-enabled, and that the or access to personal profiles and data such level of digitalisation was only likely to increase as pay slips and management information.
In response to the numerous We also established shared service centres fast-paced changes we were seeing in our inkey locations around the world and deploy market place, theneed for technology them to maximise cost efficiencies.
Our changes became a strategic imperative.
ability to access real-time, accurate and detailed management information to make inCreASing voLumeS of dAtA better informed business decisions has been Over recent years we have seen a at the core of how we have managed our considerable increase in the volumes of job business in recent years.
applications received and a notable rise in the numbers of ways in which we receive driving fee growtH them.
At Hays, we now receive over eight In the digital world everything works at pace million Cvs a year and around three million and to be successful you need the architecture hits to our jobs websites every month.
When developing and rolling out Giventhe evolution and trajectory of these OneTouch, our single global database, we volumes, it was clear that our consultants ensured that not only was it fully integrated would no longer be able to cope efficiently internally within our business, but that it with this massive increase in velocity and was also connected externally to the world complexity unless we gave them the around us in all the ways we thought were technological tools to do so.
On the supply relevant to our business.
We believe that this side of the industry, candidate profiles have is core to delivering on our strategic goals moved away from traditional printed and making our people as effective as they formats, first to email and now onto social can possibly be.
Hays has the IT architecture media.
From our perspective as a recruiter and intellectual property in place that the and a facilitator of relationships between modern world of recruitment requires and people and companies, we identified that we we believe we are the only recruitment c. 8,000,000 must be intimately connected to this online company in the world to have achieved world.
Equally, we identified that the data must this today.
Cvs reCeived in fY 2014 be managed in an integrated manner with our own proprietary database as that would give wHY tHiS mAtterS us a competitive edge.
Oursectorleading technology is key c. 3,000,000 to driving growth by helping our expert HitS to our JobS webSiteS reSPonding to CHAnge consultants get the best candidates everY montH We have responded to these changes and to clientsfaster than anyone else, invested proactively to ensure that our maximising their productivity and the consultants remain as effective as possible.
Equally, access to realthe front office this meant creating a digital time, accurate management data allows platform for the consultants to use that management teams to make accurate enabled them to search and find the best and timely business decisions.
candidates for our clients at speed and with precision.
We developed a global database system which is searchable using embedded Google technology, is globally connected Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 12HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 13 bACk offiCe deveLoPmentS Our assessment of the technology HAYS landscape in the world of recruitment in ICONS HAYS WHITE CMYK 2008 highlighted that both clients and candidates were starting to demand online access to traditional back office processes.
We have responded by developing a range of mobile and digital functions, including the ability to submit timesheets electronically, manage workforces using our single, integrated technology tools and embedding them, along with other Laptop Email SmartPhone Learning Forward Backward Calendar Tools products, into our own business, as well as to the external world.
keY StrAtegiC 2011 reLAtionSHiPS tHe YeAr we fuLLY imPLemented A gLobAL dAtAbASe Over a number of years we have developed the highest level relationships and secured backing and support from Newsletter Document FormPublished Material Video Useful Links AnnouncementProcess Globe key partners such as Google, LinkedIn, Oracle and Bond.
googLe We have embedded the Google search algorithm behind our technology firewall and fully integrated it with our OneTouch database, enabling our consultants to perform complex searches on all our clients, candidates and jobs worldwide Search Help FAQ Target Charity Box File Folder Handshake Light Bulb in less than a second.
We have a single and consistent database architecture worldwide, underpinning every process we undertake.
Linkedin Hays has the leading relationship of anyone in our industry with LinkedIn, allowing us to build global Cross Systems Awareness between our own proprietary database and LinkedIns membership Lock  Contact Us Nearest oce Speak to a ConsultantForum Networking platform.
Furthermore, we have leveraged our relationship to use the LinkedIn platform as a powerful tool to bring our utiLiSing brand to the front of mind of the millions of professionals worldwide who are active SoCiAL mediA on LinkedIn.
Hays are today the 23rd most HAYS iS tHe followed company worldwide on LinkedIn c. 8,000,000 and the number one recruitment company Cvs reCeived in fY 2014 in every country in which we operate.
23rd Based on first degree connections, that moSt foLLowed gives us a potential audience of over c. 3,000,000 ComPAnY worLdwide 320 million people.
This enables us to on Linkedin witH HitS to our JobS webSiteS build relationships quickly with new over 700,000 everY montH candidates worldwide and to help foLLowerS themfind the roles they aspire to.
foLLow HAYS on Linkedin linkedin.
com company hays 14HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 A PLAtform for growtH OUR WORLD CLASSBRAND We take the development and management of our brand very seriously and our focus has been on building the reputation of Hays as the respected industry standard in the specialist recruitment market, and also as being the leading commentator on issues impacting the world of work.
We have been building wider recognition and awareness of 1 Hays as amarket leader through partnerships SingLe brAnd with the CBI and Manchester City Football ACroSS our Club, amongst others.
Our brand lies atthe heart of everything we do.
33 mArketing And CommuniCAtionS CountrieS Our brand presents Hays and our consultants in a consistent, professional way, with compelling messages and a distinctive style that can only be Hays whether it be our job adverts in the media, our salary guides or our industry-leading white papers exploring issues in the world of work.
digitAL We have established Hays as a prominent candidates and clients worldwide is branddigital brand with a dynamic presence and led and to a consistently high standard.
expert opinion, whether it be on Hays Tv, The Hays Challenge, an online consultant ourYouTube channel, a sector-specific attraction programme, leverages our brand Facebook page, or on LinkedIn as the worlds to attract top talent to work at Hays and 23rd most followed company on that can be accessed on our website.
Hays has over 700,000 LinkedIn followers which gives us a potential audience hays-careers.
com hays-challenge of over 320 million people based on first degree connections, more than any other recruitment company.
wHY tHiS mAtterS offiCeS We believe that establishing a powerful, We have overhauled our office environments, global brand is a key business platform resulting in a consistent, quality experience that helps us drive net fee income and buiLding brAnd whether you are visiting our consultants in grow profits.
The quality of the Hays Shanghai, Cardiff, Sydney, or our flagship AwAreneSS brand opens doors for our consultants office on Cheapside in London.
We have a and makes it easier for them to build Our high profile presence as Strategic very clear appreciation of our DNA as a relationships and grow their fees faster, Partner of the CBIs annual conference company and the Hays brand runs through taking share off our competitors.
People in2013 enabled our brand to be the heart of our business day-to-day, helping also aspire to work for the leading brand showcased across every news channel us build our presence on a global scale.
in any industry sector, so the strength of in the UK and much of Europe.
Alistair our brand helps us attract the very best Cox was a speaker on one of the main PeoPLe new recruits to join Hays.
panels and we were able to promote the Our brand values play a fundamental role findings of our latest Global Skills Index to in the way we hire, train, motivate and an extensive influencer community of key performance-manage our people.
As a result, business figures and international media.
the expertise and service we offer to our HAYS ICONS HAYS WHITE CMYK Laptop Email SmartPhone Learning Forward Backward Calendar Tools Strategic report governance financial Statements Newsletter Shareholder informatioDocument F n ormPublished Material Video Useful Links AnnouncementProcess Globe 14HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 15 Search Help FAQ Target Charity Box File Folder Handshake Light Bulb engLiSH Premier LeAgue reACHing A inSigHtfuL mAtCHeS viewed ACroSS gLobAL AudienCe PubLiCAtionS We became the Official Recruitment We have built a portfolio of 175 Partner of Manchester City FC as the club high quality and respected CountrieS shares our global ambitions and offers us publications that demonstrate Lock  Contact Us Nearest oce Speak to a ConsultantForum Networking a huge awareness-building platform via the thought-leadership the English Premier League with their credentials of Hays and our matches viewed across 175 countries by people.
All this material acts 4.7 billion people in 645 million homes.
as an invaluable aid to how Manchester City FC helps Hays take our our consultants engage with message to their global base of 287 million their clients and candidates, followers, only 3% of whom are actually helping them showcase the based in the UK.
Our partnership with the professionalism and quality club has driven international traffic to our of thinking represented by website and also helped spotlight our our people.
Ultimately it helps to create an environment where HAYS JournAL ourconsultants can grow their fees faster One example is the Hays by representing a more widely respected Journal, now in its third year as a 1 andrecognised professional services firm.
bi-annual publication, providing SingLe brAnd a global perspective of issues hays.
com mcfc ACroSS our impacting the world of HR and recruitment.
60,000 copies are circulated every year, including 33 distribution in the business CountrieS lounges of a number of airport terminals where the Journal sits alongside the likes of TheEconomist.
com HAYS gLobAL SkiLLS index We have created the Hays Global Skills Index a barometer of factors impacting the demand and supply of professional skills.
It is asophisticated econometric model developed in conjunction with Oxford Economics.
Now in its second year, you can find the 2013 edition on our website.
com 2013 wHite PAPerS Our countries and specialisms produce white papers, salary guides and market reports.
We leverage these across social media platforms, as content for events and conferences and for generating media interest in our business.
16HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CHief exeCutiveS review Continued our StrAtegY 1.
To build the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business 2.
To deliver well-diversified and profitable growth StrAtegiC PiLLArS 1 2 3 4 ONE HAYS GROWTH TAILORED BEST PEOPLE IN EFFICIENCY AND AROUND TOMARKET THE INDUSTRY OPERATIONAL THE WORLD OPPORTUNITIES EFFECTIvENESS Recruit, engage and retain the best people Single global brand Build global scale Maximise consultant Provide industryGlobally consistent Diversify specialisms productivity leading training customerservice inexisting countries Leverage best-in-class Provide global career Global thought leadership Selected new country technology platform opportunities and mobility openings Drive efficiencies Respond to evolving through automated client needs back-office systems Find new ways of Integrate with developing addressing our markets social media channels our oPerAtionAL foCuS Exploit opportunities for growth FULLY CAPITALISE ON Further build scale and diversity Fully capitalise on long-term structural opportunities ALLOPPORTUNITIES Drive further UK profit growth DEFEND AND MAxIMISE Focus on consultant productivity everywhere FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Move remaining loss-making countries towards profit Local network and expertise RESPOND TO AND BEST-SERvE Efficient large corporate client offering ExISTING AND EvOLvING Evolving product offering CLIENT DEMANDS Performance-driven remuneration RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND Active local management and dedicated local recruitment LEADERSHIP DEvELOPMENT Best-in-class training and development Position the Group to capitalise on all opportunities CONTINUE TO RESEARCH AND Anticipate and understand potential threats RESPOND TO NEW MEDIA Build partnerships Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 16HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 17 our nAtionAL network And LoCAL exPertiSe mAkeS uS tHe ProgreSS AgAinSt our obJeCtiveS go-to reCruitment in2014 AgenCY in tHe uk Our long-term aim is clear: to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment business.
As the year progressed we saw market Achieving this will mean us developing the conditions steadily improve in the division.
best brand in our industry, delivering the Confidence returned to our clients and best service, being the company that new candidates, resulting in increased activity as recruits aspire to work for and of course job movement accelerated.
Our Temporary delivering the best financial performance 1 business grew by 7% as the demand for through the cycle.
Specifically on this final flexibility in the labour market remained point, we aim to broadly double our profits strong.
However, we also saw progressive and diversify from where we derive those quarter-on-quarter acceleration in activity profits over a five-year timeframe and in our Permanent placement business as I am pleased to report that as we close the prevailing macroeconomic conditions ourfirst year of that journey, we are ahead improved, resulting in Perm net fee growth ofplan towards this aspiration.
This buoyancy in the Perm market We seek to manage the business to is a healthy sign that candidates are confident outperform our competition in profits enough to change jobs and clients are andcash generation whatever the market replacing any leavers and in some cases are conditions.
To achieve this, we focus all our increasing their headcount, and that bodes efforts around four themes as illustrated in well for the immediate future.
our Strategic Pillars, set out on the previous Reassuringly, the improvement we saw in page.
We complement these Pillars with the division was broad-based.
Every region specific areas of operational focus, designed inthe UK & Ireland grew year-on-year, as did to adjust the business according to where we most industry specialisms.
With a network are in the economic cycle in any particular of102 offices and 2,157 consultants across market.
These are the levers we use to best theUK & Ireland, we are the only specialist position our business at all times and we recruitment business with a truly national formally measure our progress against a list footprint.
We very deliberately maintained of Key Performance Indicators, which you this footprint throughout the downturn as will find on page 20.
Ibelieve it is vital in a long-term business In addition, at the start of each year I lay toremain committed to key local markets out our priorities for the year ahead.
We were not afraid to take hard start by reporting on progress against the decisions to reduce costs when markets priorities for 2014 that I laid out in last years became unviable, but at the same time Annual Report.
weinvested in upgrading our remaining Progress in 2014: infrastructure so that we might better serve 1. furtHer imProve finAnCiAL Our business in the UK & Ireland has our clients and candidates when conditions PerformAnCe in tHe uk delivered an excellent performance this improved.
We are reaping the benefits of 1 The priorities I set out last year: year, growing net fees by 11%, increasing those decisions now as we emerge from the operating profit to 26.2 million and Positioning our business to fully capitalise downturn in a stronger and more diversified delivering on each of the priorities set on all market segments which offer position than ever before.
Our national at the start of the year.
The high operational opportunities for growth: network and local expertise makes us the gearing in our business in its early stages Continuing to drive improvement in go-to recruitment agency in the UK.
This of recovery is evident, with an increase of theproductivity of our recruitment provides us with a significant competitive 24.0 million in net fees yielding an increase consultants: and advantage and one that is very difficult for of 20.6 million in profits.
We achieved this our competitors to replicate.
Keeping a firm control on costs.
via a significant improvement in consultant productivity, combined with a tight control on costs.
The benefit of our focus on consultant activity is clear as net fees per 1 consultant increased by 3%, enabling us to deliver such a strong flow-through of incremental net fees into operating profits.
1 L FL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
18HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 CHief exeCutiveS review Continued 10 CountrieS wHere we HAve eStAbLiSHed our it ContrACting modeL our tASk iS to identifY mArketS tHAt offer uS tHe beSt Long-term PotentiAL And inveSt in tHem infrastructure to serve our key markets.
Reassuringly, the Australian business was stable throughout the second half of the year and this stability, coupled with the strength of the business and its management team, gives me greater confidence for an improvement in prospects over the new financial year.
Most 2. inveSt to PoSition tHe grouP for That means taking very regular decisions Long-term StruCturAL growtH importantly though, we are the clear market around investment or cost control, tailored leader in each of these three core markets oPPortunitieS, wHiLe deLivering to market conditions both at the time and 2 SHort-term reSuLtS and grew further market share in each one.
expected in the immediate future.
I believe The priorities I set out last year: our financial performance this year, and the In Japan, the market was strong and we strategic progress we have made in growing invested accordingly, growing headcount by Tailoring our investment approach to and diversifying our business, shows that we 1 7% year-on-year.
Fees increased 17% and suitthe specific conditions in all markets, have got that balance right.
Not only did we 1 operating profit 18% and we continued to investing aggressively where grow profits and cash, but we also expanded consolidate our leadership position in this opportunitiesexist: our operations, growing our consultant important market.
In France, the continued Where established markets become headcount 6% to 5,357. economic uncertainty took its toll on market moredifficult, quickly respond to sentiment.
Despite this, our French business To deliver on our long-term aspiration of defendprofitability: and 1 delivered good 5% net fee growth and doubling our profits and diversifying the increased profits to 4.3 million, in sharp Focusing on newer start-up businesses, source of those profits, we are focused on contrast to many of our competitors who ensuring each of our recent investments two key themes: growing our existing three went backwards.
Canada faced a stronger moves into or close to profits in the year.
core profit contributors the UK, Germany market and we continued to make further and Australia and investing aggressively in Progress in 2014: good progress, delivering a record year with those newer markets which we consider can The long-term opportunities to build large, 1 1 fees up 5% and operating profit up 14% become large businesses for us over time.
profitable operations in our industry are to 2.0 million.
Across all three countries we We already have scale in four such newer immense.
In most countries around the also made important investments to establish markets which we believe offer this potential world, the use of recruitment agencies to IT Contracting businesses, which we expect Japan, Canada, France and Brazil so our find professional, technical and skilled talent to rapidly become meaningful new operations task is to invest appropriately in each of these is still at a very early stage of development.
Brazil, on the other hand, markets, as well as continue to seek further Of our significant businesses, only the North was a much more challenging market.
American, UK & Ireland and, to some extent, Brazils longer-term potential remains, in the Australian and French markets show a This approach has served us well this year.
short term we reduced costs to protect degree of maturity, and yet they too still offer We have significantly grown our profitability profitability as market demand fell sharply.
very significant opportunities for growth.
As in the UK and while we kept a firm control I expect this cautious approach in Brazil to the market leader in this industry, our task is on costs, we continued to invest in the continue until we see an extended period to identify markets that offer us the best business to ensure adequate capacity to of improved confidence and activity.
long-term potential and invest in them to meet growing demand.
Germany delivered Elsewhere across our global portfolio, we create businesses which, over time, will yet another record year and became our saw improvements in the vast majority of become material to us.
largest single profit contributor for the first our businesses.
Our operations across Asia time.
We continued to grow our headcount At the same time, however, we recognise 1 all performed strongly with fees up 25%, there to ensure we capitalise on the that the long-term only exists if we take care making Asia as a region an increasingly .
That means running our important component of our Group results business to make meaningful profits each The Australian market was more difficult with a platform of 348 consultants across year, allowing us to then invest to create the following the sharp decline in mining activity China, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and Hong longer-term opportunities.
I strongly believe and the subdued levels of activity in the rest 1 Kong.
In the USA, we grew fees by 73% that to be successful, we must get the balance of the economy.
We cut costs accordingly and moved into consistent profit, despite right between these two competing factors.
but, as in the UK, we maintained our the increased investment we made in this 1 L FL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
2 Market position is based on Hays estimates.
Strategic report governance financial Statements Shareholder information 18HAYS PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2014 19 attractive market.
Similarly our more recent brand on LinkedIn, making us the 23rd most across our platform, replicating the strength South American start-up businesses in followed company in the world.
This is a of position we already have in the UK, Mexico, Colombia and Chile all grew quickly business with huge scale and it requires Germany and Australia in more countries and collectively moved into profit.
Despite modern, accurate and intuitive systems around the world.
We will explore every the current uncertainty in Russia, we to operate to maximum capacity.
Markets such delivered good fee and profit growth.
Finally, as North America and Japan are excellent To ensure we remain at the forefront of these our businesses across the rest of Europe all examples where we believe aggressive developments, we further invested in our did well, despite some of the local economies investment is currently justified as we seek innovation team during the year.
This small remaining difficult, and this is testament to to build this more diversified platform.
team is comprised of experts from across the the hard work and focus of the management Finally, having worked hard to build the worlds of recruitment and technology and it teams in each business.
As we finished the technology lead we now enjoy in the is their role to continually explore options for year, it was encouraging to see each business industry, we will seek to capitalise on that how we can leverage emerging technologies across the world making its contribution and continue to search for ways that we can to our advantage.
Already, as an industry towards the Group results.
Each has a role make our business more efficient and our leader, we are building relationships, toplay, even though our strategy across expert consultants even more effective in networks and investments around the countries varies.
their roles as trusted advisers to their clients world, designed to give our business further and candidates.
Continue to evoLve our advantage as these technologies develop never lose sight of how we really add value routeStomArket and mature.
to our world: by helping our clients find the No industry is immune from change and in PrioritieS And foCuS for 2015 right person for the right job at the right the recruitment industry we continue to see As the markets around the world continue time, and helping our candidates find their rapid evolutions in the way that businesses to show general improvement, our focus and perfect new role.
That is how we succeeded source talent and the way in which priorities for the new year are unchanged as in helping over a quarter of a million people candidates interact with the job market.
we enter the second year of our five-year find their next job last year.
That is what Technology is often the catalyst for these plan.
We will continue to seek ways to we call 'Powering the World of Work'.
evolutions and I believe it is essential that further improve consultant productivity, for we position ourselves to understand and example by utilising the new technologies capitalise on the opportunities these we are working with, and investing further in mdecins Sans frontires mSf technologies can bring us.
While our our training and development programmes is one of the worlds leading medical business is based on the quality and worldwide.
We will continue to invest in humanitarian organisations.
expertise of our people, I passionately those businesses where we need additional believe that we can make our people even MSFs goal is to save lives, alleviate capacity and I expect us to recruit hundreds more effective if we equip them with the suffering and restore human dignity of new consultants around the world over best tools available to do their job.
That is through the direct provision of medical aid the year.
However, we will also ensure that why we have invested over several years and bearing witness to events it encounters we focus our resources on those businesses in our technology landscape and built a in conflict areas and zones hit by natural best positioned to deliver a meaningful system and technology capability that is disasters.
Today MSF has 30,000 people in contribution to the Groups results over the unique today in the recruitment industry.
29 countries and, aside from medical staff, next five years.
Where we need to take These investments are now delivering us requires employees from a variety of tough decisions to protect profitability, we significant competitive advantage and specialisms.
Hays has been working closely will do so as I believe every single business financial benefits as we see our consultant with MSF in Canada to fill Temp and Perm needs to make a positive contribution to productivity and service levels increase roles across our Information Technology, ourgrowth.
Human Resources and Accountancy & With the era of rapid investment in new Finance divisions, using our expertise Having this technology platform in place start-ups around the world now behind us, across North America andbeyond to now also allows us to adapt to future trends our focus has shifted to building real scale find the required talent.
For example, as smartphone and tablet technology becomes more ubiquitous, we have seen exponential growth we APPreCiAte tHe in the numbers of people engaging with us effiCienCY, fLexibiLitY via mobile devices.
Hence over the year we have rolled out new mobile websites tailored And Commitment of to exploit the benefits these platforms bring to people on the move.
With modern HAYS ConSuLtAntS proprietary systems in place, strategic relationships with key partners such as Our most important resource in Canada Google and LinkedIn, and the internal skills has been our people.
Hays is our to rapidly evaluate and implement new ideas, recruitment partner and they have we have uniquely positioned our business continually provided our service to both adapt to the changing world as well departments with highly qualified and as to leverage the many benefits these competent staff who fit in very easily evolutions offer.
Nobody else in our industry withour organisational culture.
We has managed to replicate this and the results appreciate the efficiency, flexibility, and speak for themselves: every week we commitment of Hays consultants and electronically process more than 150,000 Cvs we look forward to working with them around the world, we receive 35 million hits in the future.
on our website every year, we arrange around kAtAun mAHinPou 40,000 interviews per month and over Hr officer, mdecins Sans frontires 700,000 global professionals follow our
