HellermannTyton 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Performance Strategy 2014 was another year of profitable We have continued to deliver good progress growth for HellermannTyton against a against our strategic priorities during 2014. background of mixed economic conditions.
This includes expanding our global presence Our world-class The Groups revenue of 596.9 million and strengthening our sales operations by, increased by 13.5% in constant currency for instance, opening an office in the United marketing activities and 10.9% at reported rates compared Arab Emirates to better service the rising are delivering with 2013.
Encouragingly, this growth is demand for our products and solutions in not attributable to any one geography, the Middle East region.
astrong pipeline customer, project win or product launch, Our development and technical sales teams and it primarily reflects the increased ofprojects.
around the world have been successful in volume of sales in all of the Groups gaining the specification of our products by segments.
Underlying EBITA and customers on many upcoming platforms, underlying EBITDA were 90.4 million and such as the Volvo SPA platform which goes 115.7 million respectively, with margins into production in 2015. remaining strong at 15.2% underlying EBITA and 19.4% underlying EBITDA.
Our world-class marketing activities are Operating profit increased to 82.9 million delivering a strong pipeline of projects.
We have had a strong presence at important trade shows for our industry, The net debt position on 31 December aswell as participating at our customers 2014 was 161.1 million.
This included cash in-house exhibitions, and we are at the and cash equivalents of 57.4 million.
leading edge of e-business capabilities in our industry with, for instance, mobile Underlying basic earnings per share solutions that provide real benefits and EPS for the year were 26.08 cents efficiencies to end-users.
Reported basic EPS were 23.66 cents and reported diluted EPS We have continued to extend our range were 22.99 cents.
The Board is proposing of cable management products in order to a final dividend of 5.63 cents per share, provide more comprehensive solutions and which is an increase of 7.6% compared to increase our customer penetration, such the 2013 final dividend, and in addition to as with the launch of a new LightGuide the interim dividend of 2.82 cents per share.
protection system for fibre in the The final dividend will be paid on 6 May Datacom market.
2015, subject to approval at the AGM.
We have invested in increasing our capacity Employees and in delivering world-class operational excellence.
This included the start of the HellermannTyton relies on the skills and expansion of the Good Hope Road facility expertise of its employees worldwide and in Milwaukee, and investment in new and the results for 2014 would not have been replacement moulding machines.
achieved without the commitment and dedication of our whole team, to whom Outlook for 2015 I would like to give my sincere thanks.
As global industrial production increases, We recognise the importance of ensuring we expect to benefit from this and positive a sustainable business through a strategy Underlying basic EPS cents underlying structural growth drivers.
We will of managing, developing and recruiting therefore continue to expand our capacity people who support the Groups values and footprint during 2015.
Our programme and contribute to our growth.
We seek to of capital investment is designed to ensure ensure diversity amongst our workforce and we extend our reach and deliver sustainable 26.08 utilise fully the talent pool available to us.
growth, as we concentrate on providing 2013: 22.81 The retirements of Marco da Costa innovative cable management solutions and and Masayuki Ishikawa after many high levels of service to our customer base.
successful years with HellermannTyton 2015 has started well, with the Group meant that there were changes to the Final dividend cents focusing on delivering growth through Executive Committee during the year.
Their responsibilities have been taken over by Alexandro Zavarizi, Toshi Tsukamoto and Steve Salmon Heng Lee, who have extensive experience Chief Executive 5.63 in the Group, putting them in an excellent position to continue the delivery of the 2013: 5.23 growth potential of HellermannTyton in their respective regions.
