Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report 2014 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS INTRODUCTION A year of continued strong growth and strategic progress Revenue up 9% and EPS up 30% Said Darwazah, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In May this year, I assumed my responsibilities as Chairman when my father, Samih Darwazah, retired from Hikma.
Since founding the company in 1978, Samih oversaw Hikmas growth from a small pharmaceutical company in Jordan to the multinational Group that we are today, employing more than 7,000 people and reaching patients in over 50 countries.
As I take the Group forward, we will leverage our historical success.
While many things have changed at Hikma over the years, our core commitment to delivering high quality, affordable products to patients has endured.
This is made possible by the hard work and dedication of our people and I would like to thank each and every one of them.
Hikma has delivered an excellent performance in 2014, significantly increasing profitability and shareholder return.
Strong cash flow generation supported our continuous investment in future growth, allowing increased investment in R&D, targeted business development and strategic acquisitions.
Our diversified business model continues to serve us well, enabling us to leverage the strength of our presence and resources in the Middle East and North Africa MENA, whilst rapidly building aleading global Injectables business and developing our portfolio of non-injectable products for the US market.
I am very proud that our achievements were recognised at the Generics and Biosimilar awards in October2014, where Hikma received the Company of the Year, EMEA Award.
10 Strategic report TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN SINCE IPO % 800 700 672% HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC 600 500 FTSE 350 PHARMACEUTICALS & 400 BIOTECHNOLOGY SEC 300 200 100 0 FTSE 250 -100 DEC 05 DEC 06 DEC 07 DEC 08 DEC 09 DEC 10 DEC 11 DEC 12 DEC 13 DEC 14 Our business in MENA has faced some growth and we are actively developing In 2014, we established a Global challenges in 2014, specifically in Algeria, adifferentiated product pipeline through Management Committee GMC, where we undertook some significant business development and acquisitions.
comprising senior managers from across our restructuring, and in Iraq and Libya where I am extremely grateful to our experienced three businesses and key corporate functions.
political disruptions impacted our businesses Board of Directors for their continued The GMC will support the Executive this year.
However, our businesses in other commitment to Hikma.
Succession has Committee in implementing and monitoring markets, such as Egypt and the GCC remained a focus this year and we have the Groups strategic plan.
continued to grow very strongly in 2014 taken further steps to develop a diverse and Since Hikma listed in November 2005, and we believe the actions we have taken well balanced Board that can take Hikma through to the end of 2014, we have in Algeria will enable the overall Branded forward through our next phase of growth.
delivered a total shareholder return of 672%.
business to return to stronger growth in 2015 On 1 April 2014, Patrick Pat Butler joined We are delighted with this performance, and beyond.
We continue to see excellent the Board as a Non-Executive Director, which exceeds that of the FTSE 250 index growth opportunities across our existing bringing extensive experience in strategy and the FTSE Pharmaceutical index, which markets and we are actively workingto implementation, acquisition integration, gave a total shareholder return of 163% and develop our presence in emerging markets performance improvement and a range of 112% respectively, over the same period.
such as sub-Saharan Africa and theCIS financial functions.
At the Annual General The Board has recommended a full countries, while exploring the potential Meeting AGM in May, Sir David Roweyear dividend of 22.0 cents per share toenter other emerging markets.
Ham, Senior Independent Director, retired approximately 14.6 pence per share, up Our Injectables business had another from the Board.
Sir David provided a constant from 20.0 cents per share in 2013, plus a excellent year, growing revenue by 33% and source of wisdom and guidance to Hikma special full year dividend of 10.0 cents per significantly improving profitability.
I am very during his long service since the IPO and we share approximately 6.6 pence per share up pleased to have completed our acquisition are very grateful to him.
Robert Pickering, from 7.0 cents per share in 2013 to reflect of Bedford Laboratories Bedford and who has been a valued member of the Board the continued excellent performance of the the manufacturing facility of Ben Venue of Hikma since joining as a Non-Executive Group in 2014.
This makes a total dividend Laboratories, Inc. Ben Venue.
This gives us Director in 2011, was appointed Senior of 32.0 cents per share approximately 21.2 the broadest portfolio of generic injectable Independent Director.
On 1 December pence per share.
The proposed final dividend products in the US, meaningfully enhances 2014, Pam Kirby joined the Board as a and final special dividend will be paid on our R&D capabilities and expands our Non-Executive Director, bringing a wealth of 21 May 2015 to shareholders on the register capacity, taking us a step further to achieving pharmaceutical, international, strategic and on 17 April 2015, subject to approval by our ambition to be a global market leader listed company experience which will further shareholders at the AGM.
Our non-injectables enhance the capabilities of our Board.
business in the US has also been performing Our experienced management teams Said Darwazah Chairman and Chief Executive Officer very well this year and we are very pleased across the Group remain focused on our to have brought the Eatontown facility key strategic priorities to drive sustainable back into compliance with the US Food and long-term growth and deliver increasing Drugs Administration FDA in April 2014. shareholder value.
As we focus on rapidly Our recent investments have significantly growing the Group, it is important that we strengthened this business for future can support this through a continuously evolving corporate structure and effective leadership development.
