Home Retail Group 8 Annual Report 2014 Chief Executives statement Weve made good progress with our strategic plans in both businesses, which will become increasingly important in a competitive retail environment where shopping behaviours are changing rapidly.
Group believes that it can innovate and lead in This is my first year-end statement as Chief this changing market, and thereby secure for Executive of Home Retail Group and I am itself long-term business growth.
pleased to be able to report on a year of good performance for the Group.
Despite a backdrop Digital and multi-channel leadership of a subdued consumer environment throughout Argos continued to grow its internet sales in the the year, both of our retail businesses achieved year, such that they now represent 44% of total like-for-like sales growth in each of the Groups Argos sales, up from 42% a year earlier.
The Group delivered this, mobile commerce grew by 89% to reach benchmark pro t before tax of 115.4m, a 18% of total Argos sales.
growth of 27% versus last year, and benchmark Argos made a number of advances in its earnings per share of 10.4p, an increase of 35% digital offer during the year including the versus last year.
introduction of My account, the launch of its Argos delivered like-for-like sales growth first digital Christmas gift guide, and new tablet with sales increases in a number of product John Walden and smartphone apps.
These apps have now categories, most notably electrical products Chief Executive been downloaded 5.5 million times.
including tablets, televisions, white goods and Digital channels and multi-channel video game systems.
Growth in these categories experiences are no less important for Homebase, more than offset small sales declines in furniture, as the role of the internet in the shopping journey homewares and jewellery.
Argos multi-channel for both DIY and home enhancement products performance, particularly in mobile commerce, is beginning to develop.
Homebases multiwas a key factor in this growth.
channel sales grew by 53% and now represents Homebase also delivered a good sales 7% of its total sales.
Homebase plans to upgrade performance including increasing sales of its online and mobile experiences in FY15 which big-ticket products throughout the year resulting will materially improve the digital shopping from the continued investment in this area.
Homebase also achieved good sales of seasonal The Groups portfolio of 1,057 stores products during the second quarter, which remains a core component of its multi-channel bene ted from favourable weather conditions.
The Argos national store network, with With its strong financial position the Group 734 stores that are smaller and more ef cient was able to invest in the strategic growth plans in than traditional stores, is a potential strategic both businesses, and has made good progress.
Increasingly These plans are important for the Groups future customers will seek local product collection, and because, as one of the UKs leading home and will appreciate face-to-face customer service.
general merchandise retailers, it participates in a Argos trialled six digital concept stores competitive market where shopping behaviours in the third quarter of FY14, which seek to are changing rapidly.
fide ne a new role for an Argos store in the Home Retail Group is embracing the future.
They showcase a number of the connected world, in which digital technologies developments outlined in the Transformation are dramatically altering the way people plan announced in October 2012, including communicate, learn, entertain and shop.
tablet-based browsers to replace in-store Traditional retailing in particular is catalogues, streamlined customer journeys, fundamentally changing.
Customers continue fast-track product collection and enhanced to shift their shopping habits, and most of them customer service.
interact with digital devices at some point in Homebase continued to trial the new their shopping journey.
They have come to proposition for its stores with the re t of a expect multiple shopping channels, large further 12 stores during the financial year.
These product choice, low prices and exible options stores offer more authoritative category for obtaining their products, including collection merchandising and ranging including several in a local store and home delivery.
Home Retail FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL Home Retail Group STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Annual Report 2014 9 branded concessions, improved kitchen, logistics scale, and unique store network, to offer around 400 store lease renewals or break clauses bathroom and furniture showrooms, a convenient ful lment.
due over the next five years, representing around decorating centre and higher levels of customer Argos has devised a unique stocking model 38% of the store portfolio, the Group has service.
They are delivering sales growth that called hub & spoke.
Under this model, Argos will ongoing exibility to adjust further the store is in line with expectations.
stock larger ranges in each of around 120 hub portfolio as its strategies and markets require.
stores, and operate frequent replenishment Total lease commitments stood at 2.6bn at the Compelling products and customer offers routes between a hub and its four-to-six spoke end of FY14, which is a 1.7bn, or 39%, reduction The expanding impact of e-commerce has stores.
As a result, an extended range will be from the peak total lease commitments of established a standard for broad product ranges, available to all Argos locations, potentially within 4.3bn at the end of FY08.
and made pricing and product availability hours.
During FY14 Argos trialled elements of the transparent to customers.
The Group offers over hub & spoke model in a number of stores in the Outlook 80,000 products across Argos and Homebase, North East of England, the Manchester and Although there are signs that economic including a substantial element of exclusive and Lancashire region, and London.
The trials conditions are beginning to improve, with recent own-brand lines.
The Group attempts to meet provided good operational and customer insight, reports of reductions in in ation, increases in customer needs for product choice and value by and equipped Argos for further expansion of the employment and growing levels of consumer building partnerships with strong brands, and model in the future.
con dence, the Group will continue to assume maximising its buying scale and sourcing Homebase launched a new express delivery a subdued consumer environment until the capabilities particularly via direct import and proposition in FY14, which offers next day or recovery is more broadly based.
The Group has direct sourcing of product.
named day delivery on a range of around 15,000 made good progress so far with its strategic During the year, Argos continued to expand products.
The offer allows customers to order plans, which its financial performance has begun its ranges with the addition of around 9,000 new products via the internet for delivery to either to re ect.
However, the plans are multi-year and lines including extensions of its existing branded their home or the Homebase store of their they are early in their development.
Many of the product ranges into higher-end models, and the choice.
Homebase was encouraged by the important systems capabilities, new customer introduction of new aspirational brands.
Argos take-up rates for this offer, and expects to propositions and increased financial believes it can satisfy more of its customers continue to improve its home delivery and expectations lie ahead, and the Group cannot needs by developing an offer that has universal other ful lment offerings.
count on external factors to drive the business appeal, particularly beyond its entry and value forward.
The Group has a strong financial lines.
Argos now sells around 43,000 lines Continued cost management position, which will enable it to invest in the including about 5,000 exclusively-branded lines.
The Group has a strong track record of delivering Argos Transformation plan to reinvent it as a Homebase extended its exclusive brand organisational and infrastructure changes that digital retail leader, and in the Homebase strategy during FY14 with further introductions have historically reduced its costs and improved Renewal plan.
Overall the Group is well of high-end Odina tted kitchens together with the exibility of its businesses while improving positioned for the future.
Schreiber kitchens and furniture, as well as the its operational standards.
Qualcast range of garden power and garden While both Argos and Homebase continue to hand tool products.
Homebase also increased deliver cost saving initiatives, investment in the John Walden the number of Habitat concessions within strategic initiatives in both businesses added Chief Executive Homebase stores to 15, offering a breadth of costs during FY14 and contributed to a small premium quality and contemporary furniture, increase in the Groups total costs.
The Group homewares, decorating products and expects costs to increase somewhat in future accessories.
years as it continues to invest in its strategic Beyond great products, customers growth plans.
However, the Group will continue increasingly expect a retailer to offer options to seek cost reductions to partially mitigate regarding how a customers order for products these increases.
is ful lled, via local collection or home delivery.
A key focus for the Group remains its store Indeed, the cost and speed of ful lment can be lease portfolio, which it continues to reshape to a distinguishing feature of a retail offer, and has provide exibility to adjust to changing thus become more competitive.
Home Retail strategies and market conditions.
The Group has Group intends to leverage its distribution and made good progress in this area in FY14, and with
