Strategic report Chief Executives review Richar Richard Harpin d Harpin Chief Executive Chief Executive Our business is built on developing long-term relationships with our affinity partners and offering our customers We have made good progress in stabilising home assistance in respect of water, the UK business by focusing on improving electrical and gas related emergencies customer service, increasing retention and repairs.
Strong customer growth in the USA and Spain has We provide our services through the use contributed to the growth in total customer of directly employed, franchised and subnumbers to 5.5m.
I am delighted with the contract networks of engineers.
We have significant new affinity partner signings in 5.5m customers across our operations the USA and Spain.
in the UK, USA, France, Spain, Italy and The USA remains our greatest opportunity Germany and we are becoming ever more and during FY15 we intend to increase international as a business, with 62% of our investment in marketing and business customers based in overseas markets development to take advantage of this.
our businesses are progressing in line with our expectations and we are confident of We have successfully re-focused the UK making further progress in FY15.
business on providing a high level of service to our customers at each stage of the journey, from product design to repairing the customers home, in order to create a sustainable business model.
Our UK business closed the year with 2.1m customers and, in line with our expectations, delivered adjusted operating profit of 53.4m 2013: 78.3m.
6 | HomeServe Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Our International businesses results For example in the UK, USA, France, Spain have shown continued strong growth and Italy we have appointed independent with customer numbers up 31% to 3.4m non-executive directors to support the local and adjusted operating profits from our Boards.
established International businesses, in the USA, France and Spain, 15% higher than The following sections report on the the prior year at 39.2m 2013: 34.1m.
We performance of each of our business signed 12 new affinity partnerships with segments.
water and energy utilities in the USA and a new partner in Spain, in total providing The table below shows our performance an opportunity to offer our products to 7m metrics as at 31 March 2014. additional households.
We have reinforced a customer focused culture across all of our operations, documenting and adhering to a Customer Charter in each territory.
Customer satisfaction has increased in all of our businesses and we have also strengthened the governance and control framework.
