Chief Executives statement We supply these products to builders STRATEGIC OVERVIEW 10 when they want them, i. e. from stock, Howdens supplies kitchens and joinery on confidential trade terms.
So Howdens is a direct, person-to-person That is what we do, but it is not the idea business.
This is its core strength and its of the business.
This is the source of its ability to deliver value in more ways to more people.
The idea of the business is about building worthwhile, personal relationships so The business functions because individuals that we can deliver value to all concerned rely on each other to deal promptly, effectively which means small builders, kitchen and fairly with everyone, whether they are in users, employees including past and future a factory, depot, warehouse, design studio employees and their families, business or office.
partners, shareholders, local communities and in fact everyone whose life is touched This sounds straightforward, but it is hard by Howdens.
Everything is finely balanced, because everyone depends on everyone else.
Personal To make the business work properly, we have relationships are individual, dynamic and to do things in an uncompromising way.
Businesses find talking about them, and managing them, uncomfortable, but We have to build relationships of trust with our Howdens is built on them.
suppliers, both of raw materials and of finished products, so that we can offer the right design, Howdens competitive advantage is rooted in quality and price in every category.
our ability to manage the complexity that is involved in doing what it takes to sustain these We also have to recruit and retain highly relationships and to offer direct, practical motivated staff who consistently do what help, every day, to hundreds of thousands of they say and are prepared to take personal customers and thousands of different homes responsibility for their actions.
We have to design, manufacture and source This is the basis on which Howdens was products expertly and at lowest cost, and founded in 1995, and these are the principles distribute them in such a way that our depots which have driven its growth and survival and are always in stock locally and never let the created opportunities for further expansion.
They have been resilient enough to help it withstand restructuring, recession and the We have to have low central overheads, collapse of MFI, and strong enough to underpin because builders only want to pay for things a business that employs over 7,000 people, they need.
operating out of two factories, a national distribution centre and nearly 600 depots, and Finally, we have to earn the confidence and generating operating profit of 190 million on trust of builders, who rely on us to support their sales of over 1 billion.
The same principles reputation with products of the right type and continue to drive our strategic objective of quality that their customers are proud to own.
delivering better and better service, person to person, wherever it is required.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Anything, from a tube of glue to a complete BUSINESS MODEL kitchen, can be collected by the builder as The kitchen soon as he needs it.
Service is more than Kitchens are one of the few things we all use initial availability, so all Howdens products are every day, no matter where or how we live.
designed from scratch to be quick and easy Something as important as a kitchen really 11 to install as well as fit for purpose and robust has to work, and keep working.
We undertake to swap anything, locally, right away, if it is no longer needed or The kitchen transcends whatever we might be something is not quite right.
doing in it at any particular moment.
It has to cope with people of all ages using it for many We offer builders, and hence end-users, a free purposes: cooking, eating, drinking, washing, kitchen planning service that we believe is ironing, reading, writing, studying, talking, second to none, not only because it uses the celebrating, commiserating and making plans.
latest technology but because it is delivered by Not to mention the baby bashing the table, the expert planners on a personal basis.
dog licking the cabinets and a teenager trying out a new invention on the worktop.
Every Howdens kitchen is the result of a series of critical conversations between the people We place enormous and ever-increasing who plan it, buy it, install it and use it.
And demands on the kitchen, and we expect it to before that, between the people who design it, take them.
We also expect that the kitchen will source it, make it, test it, photograph it, write make our lives easier and more enjoyable.
about it, pack it and take it to the depot.
The functionality of Howdens offers the builder a personal, the kitchen has been becoming increasingly confidential discount so that he can determine complex since the Middle Ages.
Most of us his margin for each job, and a nett monthly now understand that a kitchen that looks good credit account, which means the builder can get and works properly must be installed by a paid by his customer before he has to pay us.
professional fitter, which is why Howdens sells only to builders.
The builders account is held at his local depot, and his discount is agreed between The depot him and the depot manager.
Credit control is We sell locally, from trade-only depots staffed managed centrally, which has proved to be a by local people who know their area and know highly efficient way of minimising bad debt and what their customers want.
A newly opened Howdens depot grows Depot managers, and their staff, are business by talking to local builders and incentivised on a share of their own depots opening credit accounts for them.
There is virtually no stock loss.
Depot staff are entrepreneurial Our depots are typically around 10,000 square and accountable.
feet in size, in industrial locations rather than retail parks, and employ between six and ten Incentives are very important to every part staff.
They are low-cost, both in terms of rent of Howdens business, not only to depots.
and fit-out, and become profitable when they They may relate to specific targets or to reach annual sales of 650,000, which they outperformance against a range of indicators usually do by their second year of operation.
compared to the previous years results.
Individuals and teams who deliver outstanding The builders working day is unpredictable, so service receive significant, sometimes lifewe keep all our products in stock locally.
Chief Executives statement continued Supplying the depot OPERATING ENVIRONMENT 12 The depot depends directly on Howdens The builders market supply operation, which encompasses the From the outset, Howdens has been designed sourcing of raw materials and of bought-in around the needs of the small builder.
product, product development, manufacturing, logistics, warehousing and timely distribution The small builder is an entrepreneur who to every Howdens depot.
migrates from one sector of the market to another by recommendation.
His customers This is all owned and controlled by Howdens.
may be owner-occupiers, private landlords or local developers.
Equally, they may be housing We design and manufacture kitchen cabinets associations or local authorities.
Sometimes and worktops in our own factories in Howden in the small builder will fit out a shop, or a studio, East Yorkshire and Runcorn in Cheshire.
or an office, as well as a private home.
The pattern of his work will vary from season to Large volumes, long runs, modern production season and from year to year.
equipment and efficient working practices mean that Howdens can achieve lowest cost Howdens benefits directly from this flexibility.
It is the builder who regulates the mix of endusers, allowing us immediate access, at no The same principles apply to bought-in product.
extra cost, to all sectors of the market.
When we put in a purchase order, it is for large volumes, to our own specifications and, Today, Howdens serves a significant share critically, to our own availability requirements.
of the retail market in the UK without any An order from Howdens allows our suppliers to of the costs, such as showrooms, fitters or operate more efficiently and plan ahead more home delivery, that are normally associated easily.
It allows us to guarantee availability, with retail.
quality and price and thereby service to our customers.
Our expectations of what is normal continue This level of service could not be delivered to change.
without logistics and systems that work, and do not fail.
We are less and less prepared to wait for anything.
We dont want to queue for a till or at a First, Howdens depot managers interpret their helpdesk.
We havent got time to waste waiting own sales patterns and local knowledge to for quotations, plans, deliveries, installation, choose how much product they require.
repairs and someone to answer the phone.
We expect service right away.
Then, they rely on our truck fleet to deliver it nationwide without delay so that all our depots We are also less tolerant of mistakes or things are always in stock.
We dont just want someone to answer the phone, we want a helpful, informed All of this activity, whether in manufacturing, person who can deal with whatever we need, distribution or sales, is underpinned by a wellnow.
We want every product, big or small, to look invested, robust, stable and scalable systems good, work well and not break.
We want clear infrastructure that has plenty of scope to instructions and correct information.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 We also expect product to make our lives This will include more depots in France, where easier and easier.
This means that product we have achieved significant improvements innovation at all price points is an ongoing in profitability.
We continue to test depot priority for Howdens.
formats in France and Belgium and will shortly start a test in Holland in order to understand 13 For most of us, there is also less space.
In the more about operating successfully in markets home, this means more kitchen designs that beyond the UK.
make the best use of every available inch.
On the roads, this means more builders getting We have the opportunity to transform our stuck in traffic more often, which means that warehousing and distribution operations in ideally the nearest Howdens depot is on their order to meet our need for increased capacity.
In our cities, and across the UK, We plan to invest significantly in this area increasing demand for space means we have to to ensure that all our depots continue to be have strong property skills and the reflex to think always in stock.
further ahead about our requirements.
As kitchens become ever more complex, Howdens sells more kitchens than any other and the digitally connected lifestyle more player in the UK market.
In 2014 we sold around widespread, we will invest in product 3.8 million cabinets to nearly 330,000 credit innovation, but also in every aspect of account holders.
Since 2008 the number of product choice, design, usability, materials SKUs, or stock-keeping units, in our business technology and manufacturing excellence.
We will be increasing our capital expenditure to So we want to go on delivering constantly reflect these strategic priorities.
improving service to an increasing number of customers, and we will continue to invest in All of this will also, of course, mean further space, systems and resources to manage scale investment in people.
Howdens is an idea and complexity, service, people and our future.
that recruits people who want to be part of it a world in which proper value is placed on PROSPECTS CREATE personal relationships and where they can do a OPPORTUNITIES thorough job.
Howdens works because the idea of the We are working to build an organization that business to deliver a service of value, person is capable of supporting this vision, and of to person, in the one place that is central to sustaining a business that is worthwhile for our daily lives is strong enough to appeal to all concerned.
a large and growing number of people, and because we have stuck to our values from the outset in implementing this idea.
When we started Howdens we did not know how Matthew Ingle many depots we would be able to open.
Chief Executive We have continued to open local depots in 25 February 2015 response to demand, as more and more people become engaged with what Howdens stands for and what this business can do.
It is now clear that we have a huge opportunity to deliver Howdens service on an even larger scale, so we plan to go on opening local depots wherever we see good prospects for them.
