Chief Executives review Overview Imagination has continued to innovate in the development of financial contribution to the Group.
Customer feedback on its three fundamental and strategic silicon IP families, PowerVR the Groups plans and roadmap has been very positive with a multimedia, MIPS processors, and Ensigma communications.
The record level, well over 50 license deals, signed since the MIPS three carefully developed IP families are central to the Groups acquisition.
Given the numerous opportunities we continue to overall strategy and they: believe that longer term, MIPS has the potential to contribute significant additional value to the business.
The creation of the offer a strong and comprehensive range of IP-level products prpl foundation, focussed on MIPS open source ecosystem that address each specific area very well and development and with industry-leading founding members enable solution-centric platforms that can efficiently address including Qualcomm and Broadcom, was among the key all key existing and new markets.
In each of our technology areas we have real advantages, unique The capabilities of our Ensigma communications technology qualities and growing ecosystems that our customers value.
are being recognized with significant growth in licensing during Additionally we are seeing that emerging demand for a solutionthe year and many further potential customers also evaluating centric IP model is a fundamental industry trend, which is driven this disruptive technology.
We expect the deployment of this by the overall supply-chain evolution over the years ahead.
technology to follow a similar trajectory to graphics in terms of Our strategy has been designed to both take advantage of the migration to on-chip integration and volume potential.
disruptive nature of each of our technologies and also address In August 2013 the Group acquired Posedge, a provider of the overall changing needs of the market we operate in.
Our networking, security and connectivity IP and SoC design services.
customers positive feedback and growing interest in our activities This acquisition strongly complements our Ensigma connectivity is a strong indicator of the relevance of our strategy to the markets IP as well as boosting our SoC design services and IP platform we operate in and their future.
The Groups latest PowerVR Series6 Rogue graphics products are In December 2013 the Group acquired Kisel Microelectronics, a now shipping in key market segments with the new architecture small but leading provider of digital RF IP.
A significant number delivering the significant performance benefits that we expected.
of partner designs, using Ensigma communications IP, depend While the architecture allows very high performance to be on Kisels RF technology which is highly complementary to our achieved with high levels of power efficiency, we have developed Ensigma offering.
This acquisition has enabled us to make our a broader range of cores and have had significant engagement communications offering more comprehensive covering both across the range, particularly in cores optimized for area and baseband and RF areas.
The strength of our new low-end offerings from Series6XE has fuelled significant design wins in low and midThe Pure business continues to complement and accelerate the range application processors for smartphones and tablets, which deployment of key new technologies developed by Imagination.
will reach the market over the next 12 to 24 months.
Series6XT The launch of the Jongo range of wireless multi-room speakers, continues to set the standard for performance and efficiency for deploying Ensigma communications IP, MIPS processors and mid to high-end devices with industry leaders continuing to adopt the revolutionary Caskeid audio distribution, in both the UK and higher end configurations from this family.
the US has been a key focus.
We have now secured a number of licenses for the underlying technologies in this platform and The smartphone market continues to develop with a smaller expect these engagements to lead to significant and marketnumber of larger players shaping the market.
While the market changing third-party products.
continues to grow at a healthy level its characteristics are trending towards maturity.
The Groups technologies and partnerships As part of the development of the Group and the growing focus create a strong position to take full advantage of this large on platform delivery, we have undertaken an organizational market.
Significantly Imagination is well poised to take advantage restructure in the Pure division during the year to further align of the next wave of innovation in other related markets such as the activities, reduce cost and increase the focus on the critical wearables.
The integration of MIPS has progressed very smoothly with the Investment in group-wide R&D remains critical to the success enlarged processor R&D team focused on the development of the business.
We continued to use a combination of organic of new CPU cores.
The business continues to make a positive growth and small scale acquisitions to develop the technology Strategic report Directors report Financial report 23 and capability to achieve our strategy.
During the year we tightly digital TV and mobile devices, delivering the latest features controlled the rate of investment to ensure the operating cost e. g. OpenGL ES 3. x and demonstrating the performance and base is effectively managed resulting in significantly lower cost power consumption advantages of this class-leading technology.
growth rates than recent years, which we expect to sustain During the year we launched both our PowerVR Series6XT and going forward.
These now provide solutions for the broadest range of performance and area requirements enabling The Groups capital investment programme continued with both us to support the full range of SoC requirements.
We saw strong the datacentre and the second phase of the three phase Kings licensing activities in the year across the full range of these cores.
The value of assets created by this programme over the last three years is now in We announced the PowerVR Wizard family of ray tracing IP cores, excess of 50m.
and began strategic collaboration with key developers.
This technology has been very well received and is in early evaluation with a number of major partners.
Technology business Video Our PowerVR video decode and encode processor During the year the Technology business continued to make real VPU families, which support the latest and emerging formats, progress in both licensing and design wins.
continue to see strong volume growth.
We are seeing a growing industry trend in favour of licensing rather than internal Licensing and design-wins development, particularly as the next generation of advanced As expected the momentum in licensing accelerated in the video standards are coming to market.
During the year there were second half of the year leading to a number of important licensing 11 video core licences.
agreements and deal extensions involving over 50 customers and Camera Vision Processing Vision processing is needed to around 115 IP licenses.
We saw expanding licensing activities for get the best image from a camera sensor.
This is an area that is graphics and video with initial customer engagements for our new important both for market opportunity and technology synergy vision technology.
Additionally there was very strong engagement reasons.
Specifically it is clear that the deployment of camera and licensing for our MIPS processors and significant license functionality is relevant to many product categories and market growth for the Ensigma communications IP family.
Furthermore careful and tight integration of camera numbers of customers signed licenses for IP from multiple vision processing, video encode and GPU cores can be used families.
There is a growing and general trend towards demand to achieve very important optimizations.
We announced the first for IP sub-systems or solutions combining multiple IP cores, an product, the Raptor architecture, in this family in November 2013. aspect that our strategy is designed to fully support.
The technology has now been licensed to three partners.
The target markets for the deals closed include mobile phone and tablets mobile computing across performance, mainstream and CPU and processor cores entry categories, TV STB set-top box and the emerging video Customers engagements and licensing activities have been streaming market, home connectivity and automation, wearables, strong and encouraging with around 48 licenses concluded IoT and embedded control, media players camera, automotive, globally for MIPS cores across existing and new customers during digital radio and industrial enterprise equipment.
Among these there were a number of strategically important agreements including, as reported at the first half, a key Multimedia license with a new tier-one player.
The key technologies under this category are graphics, ray tracing, The opportunities for MIPS include: video and vision: Existing customers who have regained confidence in MIPS Graphics The PowerVR graphics processor GPU family and continue their commitment to MIPS: continues to lead the market in technological capability, roadmap strength and ecosystem and remains by far the most adopted Previous MIPS customers, who had in recent years engaged and shipped technology of its kind.
During the year there were with other architectures, reconsidering their future direction: 37 PowerVR GPU licenses across all markets and segments New markets with no barriers to entry and no legacy including several low-end use cases where we expect to regain wearables and IoT where the partners have selected MIPS market share over time.
over competitors: and The PowerVR Series6 technology has seen further deployment Other markets that will become relevant as the Warrior family in the market and is now shipping for use in automotive, DTV is delivered including mobile phones and tablets.
24 Development of the next generation MIPS Warrior family of VoIP our family of video and voice over IP VoIP products, processor cores and the drive to strengthen and build on the including platform agnostic SDKs, constitute an important MIPS ecosystem continue as planned.
element in our IP offering with relevance to both the arrival of 4G LTE networks which require VoIP over LTE VoLTE and general Strong progress has also been made in further strengthening the internet-based communication.
Two new licenses were signed for MIPS ecosystem with the recent launch of the industry body prpl this technology during the year.
This foundation which is supported by many industry leaders is another key step to bringing together and The Ensigma product offering was further enhanced during the further strengthening many key developer communities ensuring year with the acquisition of Kisel, a small but leading provider of comprehensive support for the MIPS ecosystem.
This allows us to provide a comprehensive solution to customers who require it, while also working with customers Customer engagements with MIPS remain strong and there is who have their own RF partners or solutions.
considerable interest in the Warrior family of cores which we launched earlier in the year.
We are seeing strong interest for the FlowCloud next cores from this family including a range of 64-bit cores which This technology is an emerging one with considerable synergy will be available later in 2014. and significant potential for Imagination.
Given our strong silicon IP offerings in the key areas of processing and connectivity, An important growing market for processors is the wearable we have been taking steps to ensure these technologies are device market which is an exciting opportunity for MIPS cores complemented by relevant software technologies that can enable given its efficient architecture and we have seen important their easy and quick deployment in the emerging IoT and M2M progress in this area.
During the year Google launched their markets.
The FlowCloud platform technology has been designed wearable operating system Android Wear with MIPS announced to speed-up the deployment of cloud-managed connected as a launch partner.
devices in diverse markets including home automation, healthcare Whilst the progress on MIPS is very encouraging, and is ahead monitoring, energy management, security and monitoring, of our internal plans, it should be noted that this is a long-term connected intelligent toys, industrial and agricultural monitoring strategy to offer real choice in the CPU and processor IP market.
The technology aims to offer a readyThe MIPS family of processors combined with our Ensigma made shrink-wrapped software platform, running on our silicon communications technology offer a highly efficient connected IP solutions and covering the server and client ends of such processor which we believe is uniquely well positioned for many systems.
FlowCloud is an application independent software connected devices and the emerging IoT and Machine-toplatform that ensures all essential baseline services such as Machine M2M applications.
authentication, security, update maintenance are available to the developers, alongside APIs for functions such as control, Communications streaming, and payment services.
The Ensigma communications technology is an important and We signed three licenses for FlowCloud software IP during growing part of our business with a number of new customers the year.
licensing this technology during the year.
Connectivity and broadcast Our Ensigma programmable Partner chip shipments and SoC radio processing unit RPU family supports both high design-wins performance and low power connectivity standards.
These include Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Bluetooth LE and others as well as Partner chip unit shipments grew strongly to 1,259m units.
Nonmulti-standard broadcast receivers, which are essential for MIPS shipments were broadly flat with prior year at 530m 2013: many mainstream markets.
In particular home connectivity in 535m.
We have seen an increasing proportion of shipments using support of streaming and automation as well as the emerging Series6 graphics technology and given the design wins achieved IoT markets offer major opportunities for our offerings here.
We during the year we expect this to continue to grow.
secured 11 further licenses for Ensigma technology during the The licensing activity in the year has resulted in a significant year, representing 3x growth as this technology becomes a more increase in new committed SoCs with around 60 new SoC sizable part of our business.
design-wins added which will contribute to future royalties.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 25 speakers, the Jongo T2, T4 and T6.
Jongo is the first multiroom Pure business speaker range that can be used with any audio or radio app, Pures focus has been and continues to be proactively helping to thanks to the integration of Imaginations Bluetooth Caskeid drive certain important developing and emerging markets that are technology.
Pures in-car digital radio range was boosted by a strategic to our business: strategic relationship with the UKs biggest car accessory retailer Halfords, which produced a range of two exclusive 1-DIN car Digital radio Pures product line drove the market from the radios, the Highway 260DBi and the Highway 240Di.
early days and set the much needed agenda to help develop this new market.
This continues today in the form of supporting and Key international milestones included the launch of Pures music driving the adoption of digital radio internationally.
We now expect service, Pure Connect, in the US, the celebration of 10 years some of these markets, including the UK which has started a of Pure digital radio in Switzerland and the ranging of Jongo in digital tick mark transition phase to begin migration towards a around 1,500 Walmart stores in the US.
switch-over plan supported by governments whilst others such as Germany develop further in digital radio penetration.
As a result Financial review we expect the global markets for digital radio to grow substantially over the next few years with our technology playing a key part and Revenue securing a major share.
Pure was the first manufacturer to gain Group revenue for the period ending 30 April 2014 increased by the Digital Radio Tick mark for its full, current range of home and 13% to 170.8m 2013: 151.5m.
Wireless home audio As a first step in helping to drive home H2 saw substantial growth both sequentially and year on year connectivity and automation, Pure has been focussed on wireless with revenue of 23.9m H2 2013: 11.3m from a wide range of audio streaming.
These systems use many of Imaginations existing and new licensees, across all of our technology areas.
underlying IP offerings including MIPS processors, Ensigma Licensing revenue was adversely affected by the strengthening of connectivity processors and FlowCloud technology and are sterling in the year and increased on a dollar basis by 35%.
The paving the way for the connected home revolution.
high levels of licensing activity also helped to increase the licensing There are now significant developing partnerships which include backlog during the year.
tier one players that have been impressed by Pures products Royalty revenue increased by 15% to 109.0m 2013: 95.1m.
The Caskeid stereo and multiroom wireless Royalty revenue was also adversely affected by the strengthening technologies which power Pures new Jongo family of wireless of sterling in the year and increased on a dollar basis by 18%.
speakers deliver industry leading performance and in particular synchronization capabilities that uniquely match wired systems.
Due to the slowdown in growth of the smartphone market and short-term competitive activities in the lower-end mobile Home automation A longer term goal is to contribute to the segments, partners chip shipments excluding MIPS decreased emergence and development of home automation opportunities 1% to 530m 2013: 535m units.
MIPS partner shipments totalled through the use of Imaginations processing, connectivity and 729m units in the year.
The average royalty rate, excluding MIPS, was maintained at prior As part of the development of the Group and the growing focus year levels due to a better mix than expected.
on platform delivery we have undertaken an organizational restructure in the Pure division during the year to further align Pure continued to experience a difficult environment in the UK the activities, reduce cost and increase the focus on the critical and some export markets which resulted in revenue of 23.2m projects for this business.
This year Pure has introduced a new mini version of its iconic Profit and operating expenses Evoke digital radio, the Evoke D2, while Bluetooth has been Driven by strong licensing successes in the high margin introduced to selected digital radios to reflect the growing trend Technology business, Group gross profit was up 15% to 150.3m for wireless streaming.
Pure also expanded its new Jongo 2013: 130.7m with overall gross margin increasing to 88% multiroom speaker range by adding three tabletop wireless 2013: 86%.
26 Underlying Group operating expenses were tightly controlled Balance sheet growing less than expected to 126.3m 2013: 97.2m.
The increase in operating expenses is primarily driven by the full year increase of 4.8m is due to the acquisitions of Posedge and Kisel.
impact of MIPS costs following the acquisition in February 2013.
The investment balance increased to 21.1m 2013: 18.7m The underlying rate of operating expense growth was significantly following investments made during the year in Ineda Systems, lower than previous years at 11%.
NetSpeed, Onkyo, Blu-Wireless, Orca Systems, UBC Media Underlying expenses are those expenses incurred before and Toumaz totalling 3.6m, and a subsequent appreciation in calculating adjusted operating profit and exclude: the value of investments predominantly due to movements in non-cash share-based incentives charge of 13.2m share price and exchange rates of 1.0m which was recognized 2013: 11.3m : in the revaluation reserve.
These increases were offset by a net 2.2m impairment charge which was recognized in the income amortization of intangibles from acquisitions of 8.6m statement.
2013: 4.2m : Property, plant and equipment was 63.6m 2013: 45.9m acquisition related costs of 1.3m 2013: 2.7m : reflecting the capital expenditure of 22.3m 2013: 22.1m.
impairment of investments of 2.6m 2013: 5.7m : The primary element of this is the redevelopment of the Groups gain on investments of 0.3m 2013: 1.8m : property facilities in Kings Langley.
This is the third year of the four contingent acquisition consideration release of 1.6m year redevelopment plan.
2013: nil : and Trade and other receivables were 51.0m 2013: 64.0m.
The one-off Group restructuring costs of 0.4m 2013: nil.
majority of the decrease is due to the timing of royalty receipts Adjusted operating profit for the Technology business was from customers.
31.5m 2013: 39.9m reflecting the transitional conditions in Trade and other payables were 37.5m 2013: 35.6m.
The adjusted net operating margin for the Corporation tax payable was 0.2m 2013: 56.3m.
reduction in the balance reflected the tax liability that arose from For Pure the difficult trading conditions resulted in an adjusted the MIPS acquisition, which was settled on 14 June 2013. operating loss of 7.4m 2013: 6.4m.
The organizational Interest bearing loans and borrowings were 24.3m 2013: changes are expected to result in annual savings of 2.0m p. a.. 31.0m.
During the year 4.5m was repaid.
Earnings and taxation The deferred tax liability was 17.1m 2013: 19.2m.
The Groups adjusted operating profit was 24.1m 2013: Cash generated from operations before movements in working 33.5m.
The reported operating profit was 0.02m 2013: profit capital was 28.3m 2013: 34.0m.
Despite the 13% increase in revenue, the adjusted and The cash balance decreased to 19.2m 2013: 76.6m.
The reported operating profits reduced in the year.
This was due to the decrease reflects the 55.9m tax payment in June 2013 that increase in underlying expenses of 30% resulting from important arose as part of the MIPS acquisition.
At the year end Group net investments made in R&D together with the full year impact of the debt was 5.0m 2013: excluding MIPS tax liabilities 10.3m.
On 17 June 2014 the Group renewed its existing bank facilities The net tax position was a credit of 1.1m 2013: charge 5.9m.
with a new 4 year term to June 2018.
The deferred tax asset on the Group balance sheet to be utilized against future UK profits has reduced to 4.9m 2013: 10.4m.
Adjusted profit is used by management to measure the The tax credit in the year arose primarily from the finalization of the performance of the business year on year by excluding non- 2013 tax filings for the US operations.
recurring items items which typically do not occur every year, items relating to acquisitions and investments, non-cash based The Groups adjusted earnings per share was 8.1p 2013: 9.4p.
share incentive charges and amortization of intangible assets The Groups reported earnings per share is 0.3p 2013: 2.4p.
The reconciliation from reported results to adjusted results is set out in note 2.
Strategic report Directors report Financial report 27 Outlook Licensing activity remains strong and we expect to see good Pure continues to showcase our technologies effectively and performance in licensing during FY15 with high activity levels drive some of our key IP offerings.
The focus in the near term is across all of our IP portfolio.
We expect the demand for our on wireless audio which is a major industry development area.
graphics and video technologies to remain strong.
The progress The product focus and the organizational changes we have made made with MIPS and the confidence created in the customer recently are expected to improve Pures financial performance.
base will continue to drive the demand for our processor cores.
The investments we have made over the last two years have Additionally the opportunities in home connectivity and IoT provided us with the required structures for growth.
We expect provide a positive environment for further development of our the growth in underlying operating expenses to be significantly MIPS and Ensigma licensing business.
We also expect the newer lower than previous years at around 10% in FY15.
technologies including ray tracing Wizard family and vision Given that the vast majority of our revenue is transacted in dollars, Raptor family to make growing contributions.
and while we have hedging policies in place, it should be noted Based on licensing and design wins achieved during the year, that significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations could have an we expect to see shipment volumes increase during FY15 with impact on our sterling reporting.
growth predominantly coming in the second half of the year.
Fundamentally our multimedia graphics and video business is The active licensing in MIPS is driving new SoC designs which very strong with ray tracing and camera vision elements offering will ultimately create new volume.
Whilst, as stated before, the new and significant opportunities for the future.
MIPS is meeting historical MIPS volume could be subject to some fluctuations, we our expectations with next generation technology well-underway expect for FY15 that it will be broadly flat.
Non-MIPS volume will with growing customer endorsement and interest, whilst our be driven by continued growth of existing customers designs, the Ensigma connectivity activities are now moving from investment timing of the ramp-up for the new design-wins in the lower-end to mass market exploitation.
Additionally the comprehensive of the smartphone categories and the shipment build-up in newer and complementary range of IP cores across these key areas is technologies including Ensigma and Vision IP.
We are confident increasingly enabling us to offer solution-centric IP platforms in that we will see this volume exceeding 1bn unit shipment over support of the new industry trends.
As all our IP families are increasingly making meaningful contributions to our volume and revenues we plan to As a result the Board remains confident that the Group is on track report a more representative measure of our market penetration to deliver continued progress.
by reporting total volume comprising the units of the multimedia, processor and communications IP shipments.
The smartphone market was around 1bn units in 2013, and is expected to grow to around 1.4bn by 2016.
Given our strong existing and growing partnerships across both of the important Sir Hossein Yassaie established platforms, iOS and Android, we continue to believe Chief Executive an ultimate graphics market share of around 40% to 60% of the 24 June 2014 total smartphone market remains a reasonable and realistic goal.
Progress with MIPS has been encouraging and we remain confident in the opportunities for this business.
The strong licensing performance during last year and the visibly growing industry engagement and support should be seen as a good indicator of the progress being made.
This is a long-term strategic investment which we expect to create substantial value over a 4-5 year period.
