6 IMI plc Strategic review In this section our Chief Executive Mark Selway reviews the key events and developments that took place in 2014.
We also explain the Groups strategy which was launched in 2014 following a detailed review of all aspects of the business, our strategic priorities and the enablers which will help us deliver our strategic goals.
Additionally, there are detailed explanations and case studies on how the strategy is being implemented in the businesses which cover operational improvements, new product development, targeted acquisitions and corporate responsibility.
Chief Executives Review Mark Selway outlines early signs of strategic progress 08-09 13 24-27 Our business Corporate model responsibility Our business model is built around our We set out our approach to doing core strategic priorities of capitalising business responsibly and the importance on growth opportunities, operational of the IMI Way.
excellence, investment in product development and targeted acquisitions.
Key performance Principal risks 30-33 28-29 indicators and uncertainties Our business performance is measured We have in place a well-established risk through Group-wide targets and management structure and framework improvement measures.
which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate the business risks we face.
Main photo: IMI Precision Engineering colleagues in their Birmingham UK headquarters.
Group Overview Group Overview Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Engineering GREAT the IMI Way 8 IMI plc Chief Executives Review Early signs of strategic progress Performance in 2014 Despite challenging economic and market conditions in a number of our key sectors, we delivered results in line with expectations while at the same time making significant investment in the Group, which will drive future growth.
Our new strategic plan is now being executed across the Group and I am pleased to report that we are already starting to see early signs of tangible benefits.
Our new growth strategy Shortly after I arrived at IMI I initiated a detailed review of all the Groups activities.
The review confirmed many of IMIs inherent strengths.
The Group is a specialist flow control business focused on industrial end markets with good prospects and market leading expertise.
We have a great team of people, strong long-term relationships with world-class customers and a robust balance sheet, which provides headroom and flexibility to support a range of both organic and acquisitive growth opportunities.
The review process did however identify a number of challenges that must be addressed in order to deliver long-term accelerated growth.
We need to invest in product development, which will become a critical component of our growth plan, to build sustainable competitive advantage.
And because of the historically diverse make-up of the Group, and the autonomous nature of the businesses, there is also a need to invest in Group-wide IT systems and facilities.
Furthermore the organisational structure that has evolved over the years is complex and in many places inefficient, Mark Selway and in the Precision Engineering division in particular, we have significant underutilised Chief Executive capacity which has caused top line margins to be absorbed by increasing levels of fixed costs.
Using all the detailed findings that emerged from the review we have developed a strategic plan that builds on the Groups inherent strengths, addresses the challenges we have identified and ultimately harnesses the Groups full potential to deliver sustainable accelerated growth and long-term shareholder value.
Detailed information about our strategic plan including our growth priorities and strategic enablers are set out on pages 10 and 11 and the priorities for each of our divisions are covered on page 12.
Early signs of strategic progress As the Chairman has highlighted in his report, our new strategic plan is now in the early stages of execution and real progress has been achieved on a number of fronts: our operational performance is improving: in August 2014 when we announced our five year strategic plan, each division set a target to improve their lean assessment score on average by 50% within six months and to achieve world-class scores by 2018.
The initial target lean scores have largely been achieved with IMI Critical Engineering improving its benchmark results by 54%, IMI Precision Engineering by 44% and IMI Hydronic Engineering by 55%.
As a result of these improvements, tangible operational benefits are evident in all divisions.
In our Hydronic division, on time delivery has improved from 82% to 90% while inventory has reduced by 10%.
In Critical Engineering we have achieved significant reductions in both set up times and work in progress and in Precision Engineering the early initiatives to address the complex supply chain have resulted in improvements in both quality levels and delivery times.
By the middle of 2015 each division is targeting to deliver further improvements in their benchmark lean performances: Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 more efficient streamlined structures and processes are our addressable market and product and geographic being put in place across the organisation: beyond our reach has been expanded: at the beginning of 2015 we plants, the efficiency and effectiveness of a number of our acquired the power generation valve specialist Bopp & core processes, including financial forecasting and risk and Reuther, for a cash consideration of 118m.
This acquisition control, have been enhanced.
Plans to introduce a number creates a number of growth opportunities and significantly of new systems, all of which will support IMIs future growth, enhances our presence in the growing power sector, while including new ERP systems in each of our divisions, are well extending our existing product range and current addressable advanced.
In addition, with effect from January 2015, the market.
It also increases the Groups exposure to faster Precision Engineering divisions European operations were growing emerging markets and the higher margin aftermarket.
restructured to provide improved line of sight to customers: On pages 10 and 11 of this Annual Report you will see our investment in product development has increased and strategic plan mapped out as a time line.
Currently we are in our product development process is gaining significant the early stages, however, it is pleasing to report that progress momentum: in 2014 our Hydronic Engineering division is being made and that real benefits are starting to become launched 14 new products compared to five in the previous evident in our operations and responsiveness to the market.
These world leading new products will underpin The opportunities we have are significant and that is reflected our organic growth and help maintain our competitiveness in our ambition to double the Groups 2014 operating profits and market leading positions.
In Critical Engineering we over the next five years, while retaining our financial discipline.
benchmarked our project management processes and have developed new standard operating procedures, which are People focused at reducing lead times and improving the rigour of managing our project costs.
In Precision Engineering we All that has been achieved to date is down to the hard work embarked on an extensive review of the Industrial Automation and dedication of our employees.
In a year when much has sector which will translate into an ambitious product been achieved in terms of the Groups operational performance development roadmap: and its strategic direction I would like to thank all our employees around the world for their commitment, energy and focus.
Group-wide collaboration is increasing and gaining I would also like to take the opportunity to thank Roberto momentum: in June last year we began the roll out of Quarta for his significant contribution to IMI.
He has overseen a Group-wide intranet accessible to all employees with a period of much change and as a result, the Group is now an objective to facilitate collaboration and share best practice.
well positioned for long-term growth.
He has been an excellent By January 2015 over 9,000 of the Groups employees were Chairman and I have very much enjoyed working with him.
able to access the intranet and its content and this will be On behalf of the Board I would like to wish him all the very extended to all IMI employees over the next 12 months.
A simple unifying brand programme, centred around the IMI brand, was also developed and has already been implemented across all businesses: Outlook our concentration on specialist flow control activities has In 2015, based on current market conditions and excluding been further enhanced: in October last year we sold the the impact of exchange rate movements, we expect the Group non-core Eley businesses for 42m to further increase IMIs to deliver modest organic revenue growth weighted towards focus on specialist flow control activities.
The proceeds from the second half with margins slightly lower than in 2014, the disposal are being utilised to exploit a number of good reflecting the impact of the disposal of Eley and acquisition growth opportunities: and of Bopp & Reuther by the Critical Engineering division and the ongoing investments we are making in all our businesses as we ready them for accelerated long-term growth.
