OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have a balanced market footprint which is divided into Growth and Returns Markets.
We target long-term share and pro t growth in Growth Markets and prioritise sustainable pro t performance, while actively managing our strong share positions in Returns Markets.
We saw strong results in a number of our Growth Markets and demonstrated ongoing resilience in our Returns Markets.
At the beginning of the year, we said our overall performance would be affected by our stock optimisation programme, which reduced the level of stock held by our distributors in some markets to improve our long-term supply effectiveness.
Our underlying performance, which excludes the impact of the stock programme, has been encouraging and provides plenty for us to build on in 2015.
Creating Shareholder Value We delivered further earnings per share and dividend growth in a dif cult operating environment, characterised by lower industry volumes, high levels of illicit trade and instability in Eastern Europe Alison Cooper Chief Executive and the Middle East.
In addition our stock optimisation programme, which was completed in the year, affected our volume, revenue and pro t performance.
We made good progress this year in further strengthening the Against this backdrop we grew underlying tobacco net revenue business.
Imperial has great potential for long-term growth and by 2 per cent.
Adjusted operating pro t was at at 3 billion and our strategic priorities are focused on maximising these growth adjusted earnings per share was up by 2 per cent on a constant opportunities to drive sustainable returns for our shareholders.
currency basis and up by 7 per cent on an underlying basis.
Our business transition initiatives support our strategy and focus on Return on invested capital was 14.2 per cent and we delivered optimising our brand portfolio and market footprint, implementing another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent.
better ways of working, managing our cost base and improving A Stronger Business supply.
The actions were taking are creating a stronger platform Our transition initiatives are strengthening the quality of for growth, putting us in a stronger position to get the most out of our business and our ability to generate sustainable our key assets: our brands, our markets and our people.
Our brand priorities are built around our Growth and Specialist Much of the focus is on optimising our portfolio, improving the Brands: this is where the real quality and sustainability of our way we manage our brands to drive quality sustainable growth.
We achieved some good performances from these Were also strengthening our operating model, reviewing the way brands in the year, particularly our Growth Brands which have the business operates on a day-to-day basis.
This involves looking grown volume ahead of the market and gained share.
at systems, processes and structures to reduce complexity and enhance the way we work.
Our Operating Environment Global Cigarette Market Regulating Tobacco The global cigarette market is broadly stable.
Around 6 trillion Regulation is driven by the World Health Organization WHO, cigarettes are sold each year and there are around a billion through the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, the adult smokers.
FCTC, the European Commission through the European Union Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD and the USAs Food Our markets prioritise Growth or Returns.
Growth Markets have and Drug Administration FDA.
large pro t and or volume pools and include selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and the USA.
We support reasonable regulation, such as appropriate We typically have shares below 15 per cent in these markets ingredients disclosure and measures that will reduce illicit trade and focus on growing share and pro t. We tend to have larger and stop children smoking.
shares in Returns Markets, which include Australia and markets We dont support disproportionate regulation such as display in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa.
In many of these countries, bans, plain packaging and excessive excise increases.
particularly in the EU, industry volumes are declining and we These measures dont have any material impact on tobacco focus on generating sustainable pro t, while actively managing consumption and only serve to disrupt markets and fuel our share.
Illicit Trade We reinforced this with governments and regulators during the Around 660 billion illegal cigarettes are consumed every year.
revision of the EUTPD, which includes legislation to standardise Cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting deprive governments the appearance and taste of tobacco products.
The revised of around 30 billion in legitimate taxes per annum.
Directive came into force on 20 May 2014 and EU Member We work with governments and law enforcement agencies States have two years to transpose it into national law.
to combat illicit trade, investing in systems and processes to improve the security of our products and sharing intelligence to help authorities disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued During the year, we reorganised Group Marketing and appointed a single global marketing agency to drive a sharper focus on Sales Growth Drivers our portfolio priorities.
We also started reshaping Group Sales to further support our performance ambitions in Growth and Returns Markets.
Other business functions are also evolving in line with our We have selected four sales growth drivers that we want transition agenda.
to excel at: portfolio management, innovation, customer Portfolio Priorities engagement and pricing.
Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands.
We apply our expertise in each of these areas in all our Our priority is to drive the performance of Growth and Specialist markets to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist Brands and build the contribution they make to our business.
This is where the quality of our portfolio lies and we Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings that ful l continually seek to grow and develop these brands.
Some have the capacity to keep adding to our Through portfolio management we focus on connecting volume and revenue momentum: others are being delisted or our brands with consumers to enhance brand equity and migrated into Growth Brands.
Were making good progress with brand migrations.
We With innovation were creating a drumbeat of initiatives: small successfully achieved several migrations during the year and and frequent innovations that keep our brands fresh, vibrant accelerated plans for further migration initiatives, which will and relevant to consumers.
Strong retailer partnerships are integral to customer Good Performance from Growth Brands engagement.
We work with retailers to support their business Our Growth Brands are: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, and maximise the availability and advocacy of our brands at West, Fine, News, USA Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and the point of sale.
We evaluate pricing opportunities by brand, pack size and In optimising our portfolio weve clustered these 10 brands on to sales channel.
We take excise structures into account when five platforms, or brand chassis.
Brands that share the same making pricing decisions and focus on maximising revenue chassis also share the same growth initiatives, including innovations growth while continuing to give consumers value for money.
This reduces cost and complexity and drives greater consistency in the way we drive their performance.
Strong Returns from Specialist Brands Growth Brands continued to outperform the market, with We have quality brands and products that span the tobacco underlying volumes up 7 per cent and underlying net revenue spectrum and this is re ected in our Specialist Brands: Style, up 9 per cent.
In contrast, market volumes in our geographic Gitanes cigarettes, Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 ne cut footprint declined by 4 per cent.
tobacco, Cohiba, Montecristo, Romeo Y Julieta premium cigars, Brand migrations supported the performance of our Growth Brands Backwoods cigars, Skruf snus and Rizla papers.
and included the migration of Royale Club to Parker & Simpson in These brands appeal to speci c consumer groups and generate Iraq, Brooklyn to West in Spain and Maxim to JPS in Greece.
Performance highlights included JPS growth in Australia and the Contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Rizla EU, Davidoff gains in Germany and Taiwan, and good progress continued to underpin our world leadership in ne cut tobacco from West in Turkey, Ukraine and Japan.
Innovation initiatives and a and papers, while some challenging market conditions and stock new international marketing campaign supported the development optimisation initiatives in Eastern Europe and the Middle East of Gauloises Blondes.
USA Gold maintained its momentum in key affected the performance of Style and Gitanes.
focus states and there were further launches of Parker & Simpson, extending the brands presence to 27 markets.
Bastos performed Our premium cigars, led by Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y well in Vietnam and we grew Fine volumes in Africa and News Julieta, made gains in a number of Growth Markets and Skruf volumes in France.
We also strengthened the UK share of Lambert had another excellent year, further enhancing our share position & Butler with a new value variant.
Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 294 billion stick We increased Specialist Brands net revenues by 2 per cent on equivalents, compared with 317 billion last year.
This re ects the an underlying basis and these brands continued to account for impact of market declines and our stock optimisation programme, 12.3 per cent of our overall tobacco net revenue.
which reduced the level of stock held by distributors by more than Encouraging Progress in Growth Markets 9 billion stick equivalents.
We have relatively small positions in Growth Markets and see Growth Brands accounted for 44.5 per cent of total Group considerable opportunities to build on them to generate long-term tobacco volumes 131 billion, an increase of 380 basis points, share and pro t growth.
Key territories include the USA and and 41.6 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an increase of selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia and the 270 basis points.
On an aggregate basis, we grew the market Middle East.
share of our Growth Brands to 5.7 per cent.
8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Our overall share position in Growth Markets was up slightly to 5.8 per cent and our financial performance was good, with Brand Migrations underlying net revenue up 7 per cent.
We made good progress in a broad spread of these markets including Italy, Greece, Sweden, Norway, Taiwan, Cambodia and Our brand migration strategy focuses on migrating Portfolio Kazakhstan.
Results in Russia were undermined by dif cult trading Brands into Growth Brands.
conditions, as industry volumes continued to decline following We have a considerable number of Portfolio Brands, a legacy excise increases and changes to regulation and the route to of our long acquisition track record.
Many are single market market.
In the USA, we improved our share position in a number offerings with limited brand equity.
These brands can better of key states.
support our quality growth aspirations by being migrated into In July we agreed to invest $7.1 billion 4.2 billion to acquire a stronger, higher-quality Growth Brands.
number of assets in the USA from Reynolds American.
These Migrations are carefully planned and implemented gradually, assets are being sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by usually over a three to six-month period.
Reynolds American and include a portfolio of US cigarette brands and blu, a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA.
The cigarette A key measure of success is the number of consumers who brands are being acquired without historic product liabilities.
can be persuaded to complete the journey from one brand to An indemnity against such liabilities will be provided by Reynolds another.
In the five brand migrations we completed in the year, American under the terms of the transaction.
weve achieved a high success rate in transitioning consumers.
The acquisition will be debt nanced and is subject to regulatory As well as supporting the global development of our Growth and shareholder approval, which we expect to receive in the spring Brands, brand migrations are reducing the complexity of our of 2015.
This is a key strategic investment for the Group that will business and supporting our cost optimisation programme.
transform our USA operations, diversify our pro t stream and More brand migrations will be progressed in 2015 as we create signi cant value for our shareholders.
continue to focus on simplifying our portfolio and building Resilience in Returns Markets momentum behind our Growth Brands.
In Returns Markets we focus on sustainable pro t performance and actively managing our market share.
Key territories include Australia and selected countries in the EU, Eastern Europe and Africa.
We divide Returns Markets into North and South for reporting Logista purposes.
Trading remains challenging in a number of these Logista is one of the largest and most dynamic logistics businesses markets, particularly in Returns South, where dif cult economic in Europe, making more than 35 million deliveries a year to 300,000 conditions and illicit trade are resulting in industry volume declines.
outlets across Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland.
We delivered a resilient performance against that backdrop, with The business services tobacco and non-tobacco customers good results in Germany, Portugal, Australia, Ukraine and Algeria and has a long track record of delivering good results in tough mitigating the impact of weakness in Spain, France and Morocco.
2014 was no exception, with distribution fees up 2 per cent at 848 million.
Adjusted operating pro t was Our share across Returns Markets was 26.7 per cent compared 166 million compared with 176 million last year, largely due with 27.3 per cent last year, largely re ecting the weighting of to one-off items.
higher, than average market size declines in the UK and Morocco where we have higher share than in other Returns Markets.
We In tobacco logistics, cost control measures and ef ciency grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 4 per cent.
improvement programmes continued to mitigate the impact of Adjusted operating pro t was up by 1 per cent, a robust result tobacco volume declines.
In non-tobacco logistics, our transport given the pressures in Returns South.
business performed well in Spain and we continued to grow sales in our direct delivery pharma business.
We also grew sales of Growth Brands generated 43.2 per cent of tobacco net revenue in convenience products in the tobacconist channel.
Returns Markets, up by 270 basis points.
The Logista team continues to focus on managing costs and Fontem Ventures generating new growth opportunities to drive the pro table Our standalone non-tobacco subsidiary Fontem Ventures launched development of the business.
the Puritane e-cigarette brand in the UK in February.
Puritane was initially sold exclusively through the national retailer Boots and In July a partial IPO of Logista on the Spanish Stock Market Fontem is now widening the brands availability in the UK by resulted in the sale of approximately 30 per cent of Logista for a partnering with additional retailers.
consideration of 395 million net of fees 518 million.
Retaining a majority shareholder position ensures we continue to bene t from Fontem Ventures is also focused on expanding its presence across the strong cash ows that Logista generates.
Europe with a second e-vapour product.
Earlier expansion plans were revised after Imperial agreed to buy assets that were being Cost Optimisation sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American.
Ef ciently managing cost and cash supports our sustainable These assets include the e-cigarette brand blu, which is sold in the growth agenda.
Our cost optimisation programme remains on track to save Fontem Ventures continues to assess other potential product 300 million per annum from September 2018.
More than launches, in a variety of non-tobacco lifestyle consumer categories, 60 million was realised in 2014 through a range of initiatives while further developing and licensing its patented technologies.
that are reducing complexity in the business, including simplifying our portfolio, driving operational ef ciencies and securing further global procurement bene ts.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Consultations in relation to restructuring projects announced in Our people take pride in getting involved in our corporate April to strengthen our competitive position have been concluded responsibility initiatives and supporting each other to drive business in the UK and remain ongoing in France.
They thrive on collaboration and their vibrancy and the proposed closure of cigarette factories in Nottingham and passion create an energy around the business that continues to Nantes and the consolidation of French R&D facilities.
It is intended inspire me.
to implement these projects progressively over the next two Outlook years and the priority throughout this period will be to support We are a stronger business going into 2015.
our brands and market footprint, increased cash conversion and The cost programme is complemented by our stock optimisation considerably reduced our debt level.
This has created a stronger programme, which has improved our supply ef ciency and the platform for generating quality sustainable growth, as we continue effectiveness of our sales growth driver initiatives.
to drive the performance of our Growth and Specialist Brands.
Capital Discipline We expect to complete the USA transaction in the spring of 2015, We use our substantial cash ows to create returns for which will signi cantly enhance our operational and financial shareholders, pay down debt and reinvest in the business.
delivery in this key Growth Market.
Our commitment to capital discipline drives a focus on cash Our focus on cost optimisation and capital discipline supports our generation and effective management of our working capital.
sales strategy by building resilience and freeing up funds to invest We increased cash conversion to 91 per cent, up from 86 per cent in growth.
last year, and signi cantly reduced our debt level by 11 per cent or The external environment remains challenging but the progress 1 billion.
weve made has strengthened our ability to navigate headwinds Dividend growth was again strong at 10 per cent and from our and we can look forward to delivering another year of value creation 2015 financial year we will begin quarterly dividend payments to for our shareholders, including our commitment to dividend growth provide shareholders with more regular cash returns.
We further enhanced shareholder returns through our share buyback programme, spending 341 million to acquire 14.2 million shares.
The USA acquisition will be debt nanced and, in order to accelerate the pace of debt repayment, the share buyback programme has been suspended.
Responsibility and People Alison Cooper The responsible way we manage our business is crucial to Chief Executive our long-term sustainability and we continue to focus on improving our performance in the four key areas of our corporate responsibility framework.
Investing in the USA Transforming our Presence The blu brand is a leading e-cigarette brand in the USA and was In July we announced a deal that will transform our presence in recently launched in the UK.
Building on the strong platform blu the USA, the worlds most pro table tobacco market, outside has established and combining the expertise we have through of China.
our subsidiary Fontem Ventures will provide exciting opportunities to further internationalise the brand.
The transaction will be debt nanced and involves acquiring four USA cigarette brands and the e-cigarette brand blu, plus other Great People assets, for $7.1 billion 4.2 billion.
These assets are being sold The other assets were acquiring include Lorillards cigarette as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American.
factory in North Carolina and its national sales force.
This will enable us to sell our brands across all 50 states, a signi cant The cigarette brands are being acquired from Reynolds American step up from our current approach which is to focus on without historic product liabilities.
An indemnity against such 19 key states.
liabilities will be provided by Reynolds American under the terms of the transaction.
Around 2,750 employees will join us from Lorillard and like our own people in our USA business, Commonwealth-Altadis, The deal is subject to the Lorillard Reynolds American acquisition theyre highly skilled.
The combined team will be led by Martin receiving regulatory and shareholder approval.
We also require Orlowsky, a former Chairman, President and CEO of Lorillard.
the approval of our own shareholders at a general meeting and will be sending an explanatory circular to them in due course.
Sustainable Returns We expect completion in the spring of 2015.
This is an investment in one of our key Growth Markets that supports our strategy and will create sustainable value for Powerful Brands our shareholders.
The cigarette brands we are acquiring are Winston, Maverick, Kool and Salem.
When combined with our own brands, our The acquisition is expected to generate a return on invested cigarette share will increase from 3 per cent to 10 per cent, capital of more than 10 per cent, well in excess of our weighted positioning us as a signi cant number three player in the market.
average cost of capital, in the first full financial year following completion.
It is also expected to be signi cantly earnings enhancing in the first full year following completion.
10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2014
