Chief Executives Statement AN EXHILARATING DRIVE I am delighted once again to announce a set of record underlying financial results that continue our long-term trend of delivering increased market share, margin growth, higher profits, industry-leading return on capital employed and shareholder value creation.
In the past 10 years, it has been a privilege to lead Inchcape, a Group with such an impressive heritage, operating in a fascinating industry and with a unique portfolio of growth markets and leading brand partners.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to all Inchcape employees and brand partners for their outstanding support.
For me personally and for the Group this has been an exhilarating drive.
As I write my final Chief Executive Statement after nearly 10 years with Inchcape, it is perhaps fitting to briefly consider the journey that the Company has been on since 2005 and to reflect Andr Lacroix on what makes Inchcape so truly special.
Group Chief Executive This has been a significant period in the Companys history: it has taken us through one of the most challenging For this reason, I will comment on this market conditions and outperform economic crises ever to hit the worlds years results at the end of this statement, its competitors in periods of growth.
financial markets and then through not at the beginning.
In this way, I hope It has always achieved this thanks to an extensive recovery period during to clearly illustrate how I believe Inchcape the determination of its employees to which Inchcape has successfully and will continue to drive success from succeed, and I am confident that it will consistently outperformed its competitors.
its markets, accelerate growth and still be doing so for many years to come.
constantly deliver improving shareholder I believe that the Companys strengths The worlds best car brands value to provide an exhilarating drive lie in 10 core strategic assets which today Our business, at its simplest, is to provide for our customers, our brand partners, make Inchcape the global leader in the worlds leading car manufacturers our people and our shareholders.
with a professional, well-financed route These are the qualities that make us A rich heritage and reputation to market across 26 territories worldwide.
uniquely well-placed to benefit from We strive to enhance our manufacturer for performance excellence the tremendous growth ahead in the partners brand performance by creating The first of Inchcapes strategic assets premium and luxury segments of the lies in our rich heritage and outstanding an outstanding buying and ownership global automotive market.
reputation for performance, built up over experience to which customers choose nearly two centuries.
Inchcape has existed to return, time and time again.
And, by in multiple forms for many years from the leveraging the full power of this Customer days when some of the 19th centurys 1st approach, we drive growth for our most exciting figures helped to create own people, our brand partners and todays global company by opening up our shareholders.
new trading routes right across Asia, down Six long-standing brand partner the length of Africa and across the Pacific relationships deliver around 90% of our to Australasia.
But by partnering with Toyota, The Company continues to thrive today Volkswagen-Audi, BMW, Subaru, Mercedesbecause it has consistently leveraged this Benz and Jaguar Land Rover, we work entrepreneurial spirit along with a real with the key drivers of innovation in the sense of integrity and an unmatched automotive industry across the world.
Not customer focus to overcome challenging only are these the manufacturers behind 20 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the majority of breakthroughs in powertrain A number of global structural drivers These strategic choices have given us a and environmental technologies, they are fuelling this growth: New Car sales powerful position in the global automotive are also the leaders in the development growth in markets across all continents: industry: the fact that the core of the of new automotive segments that meet unprecedented wealth creation in Asia Groups earnings are delivered in highemerging and future customer needs.
Pacific and Emerging Markets: new return Distribution channels in the fasttechnologies driving environmental growing Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets Further, these are the brands to which and efficiency gains, creating value for has been and will remain a key driver increasingly wealthy customer groups customers: growth of the Used Car market of shareholder value creation.
This in turn as vehicles are replaced: and on-going is a powerful driver and protector of high Being in the right markets with the right consolidation, led by the best funded margins for Inchcape.
In short, these brand partners gives us significant local and best performing industry players.
are the best possible brand relationships leverage and indeed we have achieved for us to have.
Our role is to apply our Inchcape additionally benefits from our outright market leadership positions in expertise at every point in the automotive ability to leverage a number of market many of the markets where we operate, value chain.
specific growth drivers in every territory and top three positions in many others.
in which we operate see panel overleaf Where we operate as a Distributor, We work hard to maximise our brand for more on this.
our extensive consumer research and partners success.
And we are rightly knowledge of our markets enable us to Moreover, we are uniquely placed to proud that, as a result of this focus, our specify the models, variants and volumes benefit from our exposure to high-margin partner brands often perform better in supplied to each market.
We handle growth markets, driven by two important Inchcape-run markets than they do all aspects of import and logistics, from features of our business model that elsewhere, one of the reasons why our factory gate to showroom.
We also truly differentiate Inchcape in the brand partner relationships have been appoint, manage and train franchised global automotive industry: our go to in place for over 20 to almost 50 years.
dealership networks and support them market strategy and our geographic A winning glo-cal organisation through the wholesale provision of portfolio strategy.
This out-performance is due in no small vehicles and parts.
We draw upon our The strategic choices we have made part to another key Inchcape strength, market knowledge and brand expertise over the years regarding our go to market a winning glo-cal organisation.
Our to handle all national marketing and strategy have been highly significant.
organisational approach is to establish price positioning to maximise margins In the global automotive value chain we a strong market presence and apply and share.
gained 83% of our 2014 earnings from marketing, sales, aftersales and Where we operate as a Retailer, our our high-margin Distribution operations, infrastructure expertise locally, which role is to provide high quality brand while we delivered 17% of our earnings we support with strong governance and representation through large scale retail from our Retail operations.
facilities and our highly trained technicians Our strategic choices regarding our Our decentralised, empowered and industry leading facilities give us a geographic portfolio are equally critical management structure enables local major competitive advantage when it to the performance of the Group.
In teams to apply their in-depth personal comes to vehicle servicing and repair.
2014 we delivered 75% of our earnings knowledge of individual markets within Above all, we win and engage customers from fast-growing Asia Pacific and a globally aligned group structure.
We for the long-term through the delivery Emerging Markets while 25% of our have the scale that enables investments of superior customer service at every earnings were delivered in the UK in world-class Group-wide information touch point, in every market.
systems, shared best practice and advanced business processes, but this is So our low-capital, high-margin Distribution A perfect position in a growth industry combined with in-depth local skills and operations are sited almost exclusively Our third core asset, which consistently the ability to respond swiftly and decisively in the fastest-growing markets in the delivers advantage and value to to fast-changing conditions.
These markets are not large they Inchcape, is the growth industry itself in organisational model provides both the include Hong Kong, Singapore, Chile, Peru, which we operate and our highly benefits of global scale and of local agility.
Guam, Brunei, the Baltics, and Ethiopia beneficial position within it.
The automotive but collectively they are very significant industry is set to grow significantly over the indeed.
And by being strong with next five years, both in terms of the New Distribution in such small markets while Car market 15.4%, Source: IHS being selective with Retail in large Automotive and the overall Car Parc markets, we have channels that give us 18.7%, Source: IHS Automotive from an exceptionally strong, sustainable and which we derive our Aftersales and Used well-balanced set of revenue streams.
com 21 Chief Executives Statement continued Inchcape Advantage is our unique market is driving true sustainability for A differentiating strategy with programme to deliver a consistently these high-margin business streams.
clear operational priorities superior customer experience, We have pursued our Customer We drive the successful implementation underpinned by customer insights from 1st strategy for 10 years now, creating of our Customer 1st strategy through a our 16,000 monthly customer interviews, an incredible customer experience set of operational disciplines that are proprietary Retail operating processes and for the worlds best car brands.
The enshrined in Inchcapes Top Five Priorities.
It is our key cornerstone of this approach is our We first developed these in response to competitive advantage: it drives our commitment to outstanding customer the dawning of the financial crisis back market share growth across five revenue service coupled with a strong in 2008, but they have proven equally streams see below : it protects the pricing operational discipline.
relevant and valuable during the period power of our brands: and it helps us retain While our industry in general is not of recovery and into the current growth our customers.
renowned for customer service, achieving phase that is now taking us forward.
A key strategic component of our strong excellence in this area is critical to These priorities give us a balance business model is the diversity of our five us because it differentiates Inchcape between a set of commercial and revenue streams which we classify into from competitors and strengthens the cash initiatives that ensure our business growth and defensive categories.
Our performance of our existing assets.
growth ambitions are founded upon main growth category is New Vehicle sales Indeed, our strategy is based on the strong capital disciplines.
In short, they and, when combined with our Finance consistent delivery of outstanding focus our attention on growing revenue and Insurance products, represents customer service to drive premium and profit faster than our competitors around 40% of Group gross profit.
returns: creating superior customer value and upon driving leverage of both Our defensive categories of Used Vehicle through our unique Inchcape Advantage profit and cash generation.
sales, Aftersales Service and Parts now programme to strengthen our business Our two commercial priorities are to collectively account for 60% of our gross and, through the strong brand partner ensure constant year-on-year revenue profit and the trend towards substantial relationships this creates, gaining access growth by increasing our market share growth in the global Car Parc which is to expansion opportunities in highover 10 times the size of the New Car of New Vehicle sales and to deliver margin high-growth areas of the world.
MARKET SPECIFIC GROWTH DRIVERS The automotive industry is set to grow Australia Singapore significantly over the next five years, Strong economic fundamentals Acceleration of market recovery fuelled by a number of structural growth Population growth Certificate of Entitlement cycle drivers.
Additionally, Inchcape will benefit favourable for significant growth from our ability to leverage market Aged Car Parc driving in New Car registrations specific growth drivers in every territory replacement cycle in which we operate.
Commercial vehicle government Premiumisation of demand scrappage scheme Strength of Subaru brand Pre-Euro 5 diesel vehicle phase-out Benefits from weakening Yen UK Hong Kong Improved consumer confidence Strong economy and growing New Car market Commercial vehicle government Affordable financing driving faster scrappage scheme to 2019 replacement cycle Pre-Euro 4 diesel vehicle phase-out Solid economic fundamentals: Continued taxi refresh More on the growth of the global growth in population, employment automotive market pages 2 to 3 and real wages 22 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aftersales growth during both the warranty World-class proprietary Distribution Culture of high and post-warranty periods.
We achieve and Retail information technology performance management enhances our productivity across these goals through our innovative digital We have created a suite of insightful the Group.
Our unique, global iPower and traditional marketing campaigns reporting systems to drive strong programme is designed to reduce and effective customer contact and performance management disciplines throughout the organisation, with complexity and to provide our businesses retention programmes.
powerful links between our front and with relevant management information Our cash priorities provide us with back office environments to minimise on a timely basis.
the strong financial platform on which risk and optimise efficiencies.
iPower provides the Group with best in our commercial initiatives can flourish: An ethos of rigorous performance class SAP and CDK integrated solutions continually improving our margins management is ingrained in Inchcapes that are uniquely configured to support through a strong focus on the cost culture through the frequent and timely our Customer 1st strategy and business of sales and the mix of our value implementation of key processes model.
They effectively hardwire our drivers: robust inventory management, centrally, locally and at every level of Inchcape Advantage standards to ensure tracked on a daily basis within the organisation.
Our commitment to performance consistency, strengthen a clear Group-wide policy of 1.5 daily, weekly and monthly management the control environment to minimise months of forward stock cover: and reporting and disciplined central risk and maximise efficiency, improve being highly selective on capital governance underpins well informed local operational efficiency and productivity investments, focusing upon those decision making.
A broad and deep range in front and back office and support initiatives that increase our capacity of performance management measures our growth agenda.
collectively build strategic planning and iPower is a distinct competitive Ultimately, this balance between control tools into the heart of our business advantage for us, allowing us to deliver commercial and cash initiatives to deliver an integrated set of forecasting, a consistently superior customer is what enables us to offer a premium budgeting, governance, review, analysis experience through a unique approach service to our customers, which and talent development tools that enable to operational management.
translates into premium growth and global policies to be tailored for local premium returns for our shareholders.
Western Europe Ethiopia Poland Recovery of Greek market One of the fastest growing Inchcape footprint expanding African countries Aged Car Parc driving replacement cycle 2014-2019 forecast GDP CAGR 10.6% Source: IMF Expanding from recent capital investment in new facilities Balkans Baltics Beginnings of recovery and structural growth of the middle class Russia South America China Premium and luxury segment Growth and stabilisation of currency Ownership levels increasing in Moscow and St. Petersburg Growth in 1-5 year Car Parc supporting Access to consumer credit growing outperforms the industry high-margin Aftersales business Aspirational middle class more Growth of the middle class likely to buy premium brands Low car penetration www.
com 23 Chief Executives Statement continued During 2014, our approach has yet again Robust set of industry-leading Strong leadership enabled us to deliver record financial To create this spirit of shared ownership processes: Formula Inchcape results and this is our fifth year of doubleamong all our people, we need strong Our ability to transform revenue growth digit underlying earnings growth.
leaders whose sense of camaraderie into sustained earnings growth and and commitment extends beyond their strong cash generation stems from The Groups commitment to delivering immediate peer group to embrace the the unique approach to operational value creation for our stakeholders is built entire organisation.
The Company is management we have developed on a foundation of disciplined capital personified by a shared sense of duty over the past nine years.
Our return on capital employed to continue Inchcapes tremendous before exceptional items climbed to 26% Collectively called Formula Inchcape, pioneering heritage and a real in 2014, a year-on-year increase of 380bps.
12 proprietary processes run through our commitment to growth for the benefit organisation to provide the backbone of Total shareholder return over five years of our people, our brand partners the Groups earnings model.
They ensure now stands at 173%, reinforced by our and our shareholders.
operational excellence in every market.
consistent growth in profitability and This is a theme that has given Inchcape They comprise: marketing intelligence and capital discipline.
Sustainable dividend a strong backbone throughout our forecasting: supply and working capital growth highlights the confidence our Companys long history, right from our management: marketing and innovation: Board has in the Groups underlying earliest days in the 19th century.
dealer network development: world-class current and future performance and the retail standards: customer service: steady growth of free cash flow is enabling Today, we define this approach within performance management: capex and us to continue seeking opportunities to a set of leadership skills that help great investment: global IT infrastructure: risk enhance shareholder value.
leaders at Inchcape deliver consistently management: investing in people: and high performance.
These leadership With sales up by 2.7% to 6.7bn in rewarding performance.
Please see skills are focused on shaping the future 2014, and our operating margin, pages 14 and 15 for fuller details.
through a strategic focus and being before exceptional items including the always ahead of our competitors: Formula Inchcape was the focus Singapore property disposal profit of energising the organisation through of our 2014 capital markets day, 17.3m, improving to 4.8% from 4.4% in building engagement and developing hosted by the entire Group Executive the previous record year of 2013, we have their people: and delivering outstanding Committee.
Presentations and clearly set new records for our operating results through executional excellence recordings from this event can be profit before exceptional items 318.4m and a high performance mindset.
com and profit before tax and exceptional items 303.2m.
Track record of performance A truly engaged and with expertise in shareholder innovative organisation For me, this feels like the right time Our Group-wide Incredible Inchcape value creation to hand over the stewardship of the engagement programme is successfully Our tenth strategic asset is our business.
I am very grateful for the mobilising our colleagues to take the exceptional financial and trading incredible commitment and hard work Company to new heights.
performance and our expertise at of all those who have contributed to our creating superior shareholder value.
Inchcape is run by a particularly A key component of this programme is to strong Group Executive Committee encourage a sense among all our people This year has been no exception to our and, as I have outlined, the business is that they should feel and act like owners record of strong performance and the uniquely well positioned to benefit from of the business.
This generates a real work put in across the organisation has a growth industry.
I am confident that the entrepreneurial hunger for searching once again helped us to deliver record Companys future performance will remain out and capitalising on the many growth underlying results.
For example, our strong and that Inchcape people, brand opportunities that the business faces, as determined cost discipline over the past five partners and shareholders will enjoy well as stimulating the innovation that years has contributed to the emergence of an exhilarating drive ahead.
ensures we are first to market in our a far leaner and more efficient Inchcape.
Since 2009, our overheads have fallen For example, we were the first to provide as a proportion of revenues by 200bps.
an online finance calculator to help Similarly, our decision to buy back our customers understand what vehicle shares 150m completed since 2012 they can afford on a monthly payment shows our commitment to capital Andr Lacroix basis.
Further, we were the first to allow discipline and our confidence in Group Chief Executive customers to take complete control of Inchcapes sustainable future success.
their service booking online reserving Furthermore, our strong cash position a specific time slot on a specific day to creates strategic expansion opportunities, suit them and to book a courtesy car.
such as our 2013 acquisition of Australias Innovations like these are helping us to leading automotive group, Trivett, which continue to outperform our competitors is already outperforming our initial around the world.
24 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
