Corporate Governance and Remuneration Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Leadership The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are The Board of Directors of Indivior PLC exists to support the Groups separate and a clear division of responsibilities has been approved purpose of pioneering life-transforming treatments for patients by the Board to distinguish between the running of the Board and the suffering from addiction and its co-morbidities and to promote the executive responsibility for running Indiviors business.
Description long-term success of the Company and deliver sustainable value of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief to our Shareholders.
Led by the Chairman, it approves the strategy Executive Officer are available at www.
and risk appetite for the Group and reviews and approves Indiviors Their key responsibilities are set out below: product pipeline, capital structure and operating plans presented by management for the achievement of strategic objectives.
Chairman Howard Pien Directors The authority of the Directors is exercised in Board meetings where Leads the Boar d, sets the Boards agenda and ensures the Board acts collectively as a unitary Board.
The Directors who its effectiveness served during the year were William Mordan, Patrick Clements both Ensur es constructive relations between the Executive appointed on September 26, 2014 and retired on November 4, 2014, and Non-Executive Directors and an appropriate delegation Howard Pien, Shaun Thaxter, Rupert Bondy, Yvonne Greenstreet, from the Board to executive management Adrian Hennah, A. Thomas McLellan, Lorna Parker, Daniel J. Phelan, Christian Schade and Daniel Tass all appointed on November M eets with the Non-Executive Directors without the 4, 2014.
Cary J. Claiborne, Chief Financial Officer, was appointed a Executive Directors present Director with effect from November 10, 2014.
Maintains corporate reputation and character At the time of the publication of this Annual Report, the Board Und ertakes performance management of the comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and eight NonChief Executive Officer Executive Directors.
Executive Directors The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are Indivior Chief Executive Officer employees.
Each Executive Director is employed on a rolling contract Shaun Thaxter which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
Develops and delivers performance against plans Non-Executive Directors fide velops Group strategy, in agreement with the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors are not Indivior employees and do not for recommendation to the Board participate in the daily management of Indivior they bring an Leads Indiviors int eractions on matters of policy and independent perspective, constructively challenge and help develop reform with regards to the biopharmaceuticals industry proposals on strategy, scrutinize the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Groups risk fide velops relationships with major investors, regulators profile and reporting of performance.
The Non-Executive Directors and governments bring a wide range of experience from business, academia, scientific, private equity and pharmaceutical sectors.
Driv es performance within the strategic goals and objectives agreed by the Board The Board has reviewed the status of its Non-Executive Directors and, with the exception of Adrian Hennah who is the Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, it considers all its Non-Executive Senior Independent Director Directors to be independent as defined by the Code.
Rupert Bondy is the Senior Independent Director.
He chairs the Nomination and Governance Committee and is a member of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment Remuneration Committee.
His key responsibilities are set out below.
On appointment, all Non-Executive Directors confirm in writing that they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations Senior Independent Director of the role.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term Rupert Bondy of three years and, subject to re-election by Shareholders at the Companys AGM, it is expected that the appointment will usually last Supports the Chairman in his role for more than one term.
Letters setting out the terms of appointment Acts as an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors of each Non-Executive Director are available for inspection at 103-105 Bath Road, Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH and will be made available for Leads the Non-Ex ecutive Directors in the evaluation of 15 minutes before, and during the Companys AGM.
the Chairmans performance Ensur es there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the CEO A vailable to other Directors and Shareholders with concerns which cannot be addressed through the normal channels Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 41
