Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Our fundamental task is to shift attitudes about addiction from being a global human crisis to a recognized and treated disease All of us at Indivior PLC share a belief that addiction is a highly treatable medical condition.
The fundamental task we share is to shift attitudes around the world towards addiction.
Addiction is not about bad people doing bad things who deserve to be punished.
It is about normal people, who have been exposed to and become dependent on opioid painkillers, alcohol or other addictive drugs and who risk being socially marginalized as a result.
We believe these people deserve medical treatment.
Shaun Thaxter Chief Executive Officer 2 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Putting patients first Safety drives innovation too, for example in packaging.
Indivior PLC is a specialty pharmaceutical Every Suboxone Film, our buprenorphine and naloxone company.
We lead the world in opioid addiction product, is wrapped in its own child-resistant foil pouch treatment and the move to get it recognized so that children would have to overcome the packaging as a chronic medical condition.
What drives to get to the medication.
our crusade is that we put patients first.
We believe patient safety is not just an obligation, it is our responsibility.
Our Guiding Principles define our philosophy Quality, safety and compliance are embedded in our culture and how we operate and we consciously live by them.
as well as our patient-centric business model.
We know that They put patients at the center of decision-making and we are working to help people and our heartfelt commitment communications and we actively use them every day.
to improving their lives underpins everything we do.
Our commitment is long term Quality and compliance are at the core of everything we do This is how we have done business for the past 30 years We adhere to regulations determining product quality, and how we will continue to do so.
As leaders in the field patient safety and business standards.
We have a robust of opioid dependence, we are not only distinguished by our Quality Policy, Management System and Manual and work in education and our analysis of abuse, misuse and all our systems are governed by appropriate policies.
diversion, but by our sustained investment in the people, But that is just our starting point.
systems and resources needed to achieve that.
We also have our own additional guidelines around how Our Clinical Liaisons support rather than sell to develop our medicines, train our people and the level of qualifications we require.
Where there are no regulations Our Clinical Liaisons help to create solutions in the communities they work in.
Conscientious and dedicated, on training, we have our own in-house conditions to ensure that our staff are highly qualified, trained and competent.
their role is to educate people about the disease space, to promote safe treatment models, break down barriers Our Quality Patient Care program includes our scientifically and improve access to treatment.
That is how we help or medically qualified Medical Science Treatment Advisor expand patient access and grow our business.
MSTA, who provide non-commercial medical education to healthcare professionals and other stakeholders worldwide.
Our Clinical Liaisons work closely with prescribers to be sure that they have the resources and information Safety and vigilance are paramount necessary to appropriately assess risk of abuse and So how do we ensure we achieve patient and product address it if it becomes an issue.
Firstly, by designing safety and vigilance into our Our people make it work systems, along with the flexibility to respond to growth and legislative change.
The objective of our Risk Evaluation Our commitment to quality, safety and compliance is embedded in our products, processes and pipeline.
and Mitigation Strategies REMS program is to mitigate risks of accidental overdose, misuse, and abuse and to inform What truly sets us apart is our people and our shared belief that we improve lives.
When new staff join us, its just a job prescribers, pharmacists, and patients of the serious risks associated with Suboxone products.
Through various to some of them until they realize that the problems we help to solve touch them in some way too, through networks, we also measure the impact of our REMS and report the results quarterly to the FDA, as required.
They then become as invested as the rest of us here in treating the disease of addiction Secondly, through training and monitoring.
Safety is a through responsible business practices.
company-wide responsibility, and we are all trained in patient safety requirements.
We also have a very active Patient Safety Group, which includes pharmacovigilance medical teams which monitor and report side effects.
Patient Advocacy Leadership At our core, understanding the current and future needs of patients guides our decisions as an organization.
We continue to fortify our relationships with key stakeholders to advance our understanding of addiction and its treatment.
We do this with the aid of our Patient Advocacy Leadership, co-chaired by Dr Ed Johnson and Dr Chris Chapleo.
Both are experts in the opioid addiction disease state and are greatly respected within the global addiction community.
Dr Ed Johnson Dr Chris Chapleo VP Treatment and Global Clinical and Health Policy Scientific Affairs Director Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 3 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement We dont sell a product, we promote treatment There are countries where authorities, treatment Our Vision is that all patients around the communities and society have legitimized the treatment of world will have unrestricted access to quality addiction.
They realize that addiction can affect men and women treatment services for the chronic relapsing of all ages, races, ethnic groups, and educational levels, who conditions and co-morbidities of addiction.
have been exposed to drugs like opioid painkillers and become addicted.
They view addicted people as patients, who go to Our Purpose is to be the global leader their physician for treatment, and treatment is often funded by pioneering the development of innovative patients medical insurance as well as governmental programs.
Addiction is being recognized as a disease.
It is in the process prescription treatments for addiction, to of being normalized and brought into the mainstream.
help empower patients to improve their quality of life.
So how is that evolution from harm reduction to legitimized disease achieved?
It begins with a major shift in mindset, Neither our Vision nor purpose mention products.
but the catalyst is often a change in legislation or regulation The operative word is treatment.
Because access to broaden access to treatment.
As an example of that, the to treatment, and peoples attitudes towards it, are the DATA 2000 Act in the US was the first legislation to allow the key to having addiction normalized as a mainstream treatment of opioid addiction in the privacy of a physicians medical condition.
office, with designated buprenorphine opioid medications, including Suboxone.
Since then, over 27,000 physicians It is that shift in mindset that is crucial.
In many countries, in the US have been granted a DEA waiver, enabling the people suffering from addiction are still thought of as bad treatment of over five million patients.
people doing bad things heroin addicts who steal to pay for drugs they inject in dark doorways.
Some societies view Societal attitudes are changing around the world and addicted people as criminals and addiction as illegal.
governments are moving towards seeing addicted people as patients.
Using the same model, where we work in Even where societal attitudes have moved towards harm partnership with stakeholders to educate and improve reduction, where they fund clinics and provide free needles understanding, we will all continue to help transform to injecting drug users to mitigate needle sharing which addiction from a global human crisis to a recognized can spread disease, addicted people may still be regarded and treated disease.
as illegal drug users and treatment is often restricted and highly controlled limiting patient access.
Transforming addiction from a human crisis to a recognized and treated disease: Indivior model for treatment development When the drug policy 1 2 3 4 Illegal Harm reduction Recognized Legitimized and regulatory environment disease disease regards addiction as Patients are seen as Criminals Illegal drug users Stigmatized patients Patients in treatment Broadening Physicians are Prevented from Distributing Mixing supervised Focusing on medical access providing treatment pharmaceuticals dosing and treatment model to treatment or very tightly through drug clinics take-homes with take homes as by controlled standard including legislation or psychosocial support regulation Payors are Driven by government Finding funds Treating insuredfunded clinics trying often limited patients in to reduce crime and or capped by mainstream needle sharing governments medicine Transforming perceptions of addiction... to a shift in... to people like us who need treatment from bad people doing bad things mindsets where PRESCRIPTION OPIOIDS dominate where HEROIN dominates Anyone reimbursing or paying for treatment other than the patient, e. g. government healthcare programs and insurance companies.
4 Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Chief Executives Statement Our public health orientation underpins our leadership position Global leader in opioid addiction treatment A strong and stable management team We operate in over 40 countries globally, with a net We are specialists in developing and commercializing products for addiction.
That is reflected in our management team, revenue of $1,115m 2013:$1,216m and net income of $403m 2013:$489m.
Suboxone Film is the leading buprenorphine with their outstanding record and over 60 years experience in the field of addiction, as well as the quality of the treatment for opioid addiction in the US exiting 2014 with a 58% share of the US buprenorphine market.
Our Non-Executive Directors who will be supporting them.
experience and reputation in the opioid market positions A unique company culture us as the industry leader in opioid addiction treatment.
Indivior has a set of Guiding Principles which management We focus on the patient believes has successfully guided decision-making and set the blueprint for Indiviors operations since the launch of What sets us apart is our shared conviction that addiction is a medical condition that can be treated.
We believe that the US business in 2003. we are a force for good.
Patients are firmly at the heart of Market development, driven by Indiviors bespoke culture, our public health orientated business model, at the center is considered by management to be a core strength.
of decision-making and always at the front of our minds.
This is how we do business.
A proven infrastructure for treating addiction We have built a sustainable growth business in the treatment Our Guiding Principles of addiction.
The number of patients in treatment is still growing strongly, Suboxone Film share is resilient and Focus on patient needs we have multi-layered IP protection in place.
This IP is to drive decisions being challenged and we have a plan in place to defend it vigorously.
We are investing in a pipeline that we expect will improve the delivery of our current products and create new ones to treat other areas of addiction.
Seek the wisdom of the team Crucially, we have always understood that success in this disease space requires more than the right products.
Believe that peoples actions The key is in getting addiction recognized as a chronic, are well intended treatable medical condition.
That depends on shifting mindsets, broadening access, working with stakeholders and supporting prescribers.
Care enough to coach We have taken the lead in changing attitudes towards addiction, and continue to invest in educating and working with policy makers, medical societies, payors and other stakeholders who can help to broaden access to treatment.
See it, own it, make it happen Our Clinical Liaisons are essential in this.
Their role is not to sell, but to grow the business by improving access to treatment in their local communities through education, Demonstrate honesty promoting safe treatment models and supporting prescribers.
and integrity at all times Thank you for joining us on our journey as we strive to improve the life stories of our patients.
There is still much work to do to transform addiction from a global human crisis to a recognized and treated disease.
I am honored to have the opportunity to lead our team, with your support as a Shareholder, as we partner to make a meaningful difference around the world.
Shaun Thaxter Chief Executive Officer Indivior Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 5
