01 14 Section one Strategic report: overview Annual report and accounts 2014 15 01 Earnings Although LFG accounted for around achieving an average availability of Our earnings for the year benefitted 50% of installed capacity, it over 96%.
The wind business Chief Executives statement from a solid performance from our generated more than 70% of our benefitted from good wind speeds, landfill gas LFG business, a full years power exports in the year due to a particularly in the last quarter of contribution from wind assets added solid operating performance and its he financial year.
Our strategy to Infinis delivered another strong performance at the end of the previous financial base-load characteristics.
The in-source the non-OEM operations year, additional capacity added to proportion of electricity sold under and maintenance O&M 1 during 2013 14 with a record EBITDA of 148.4 our wind portfolio in the year, high the RO regime increased as the management of our wind farms has wind speeds and a continued focus migration from the NFFO to the RO now been fully implemented and a million and strong operational results across on cost control.
After adjusting for regimes continued as planned: 77% of dedicated team of experienced one-off exceptional items relating the years LFG production was sold wind professionals is now in place.
to the IPO and refinancing of our under the RO regime compared with Only turbine O&M activities landfill gas and onshore wind.
Although we 1 operational wind portfolio, EBITDA 72% the year before.
was 148.4 million, representing an decline in landfill gas was broadly in recorded our best health and safety record ever, increase of 18.3% compared with line with our expectations.
With the Our much smaller hydro business the previous year.
natural decline in landfill gas, and our experienced low rainfall and water we continue to strive for further improvements.
objective of maintaining a constant levels in the first half and lower than Operations operating cost per MW hour, we expected availability throughout the During the year we exported 2.6 TWh continued to right size engine year at four of our smaller sites.
We 2 of electricity, equivalent to 5.7% of capacity, resulting in the withdrawal have made selective investments to total generation from renewable of 11 MW of installed capacity.
improve performance on a durable sources in the UK.
Both our LFG basis which resulted in higher and wind businesses performed With the commissioning of Tedder availability during the final quarter.
well and, in the latter part of Hill wind farm in September 2013 our We also achieved a major the year, there was some operational wind portfolio now improvement in the performance stands at 274 MW.
All our wind assets milestone in the Companys of our smaller hydro business.
performed well, with the portfolio history when Infinis listed on the London Stock Exchange in November 2013 and 1 subsequently joined the Adjusted EBITDA FTSE 250 index.
18.3% 148.4m Our growth strategy remains on track as we move to the final pre-construction stages of two new wind farms to be built in Scotland and continue to Health and safety progress the development of other sites to meet our target of adding an additional 130 to 150 MW of new wind capacity over the next three years.
0.3 Recorded our best healthy and safety record ever 1 EBITDA before operating exceptional items: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, 2 impairment, and before operating exceptional items.
Operating exceptional items relating to the IPO Ofgem Renewables and CHP Register MWh generated in 2013 latest available figures The numbers are and refinancing were 39.4 million 2013: 2.2 million based on January to December 2013, not the compliance period, which runs from April to March 01 16 Section one Strategic report: overview Annual report and accounts 2014 17 01 Chief Executives statement continued With around 50% of our revenues accreditations until March 2017, DECC renewable energy regardless of the announced in December 2013 that it outcome of the referendum.
increasing by inflation each year Electricity exported and our contracting strategy of planned to introduce CfD auctions for established technologies such as Market outlook progressively selling forward TWh expected output, the impact of lower onshore wind by the end of 2014.
We have continued our balanced We expect the government to power contracting strategy of power prices in the short term is 2.6 limited.
Short-term power prices have provide more clarity on the transition locking in power output on 2 arrangements between the RO and short-term contracts 624 months softened in recent months due to a Equivalent to 5.7% combination of lower power demand the CfD schemes and how it plans to with licensed offtakers, enabling structure the CfD allocation process us to secure good pricing visibility and lower gas prices following a mild over the next two power trading winter.
The table below shows our in the coming months.
We continue to work with the government through seasons whilst preserving exposure contracted power position for the to expected future price increases Group as at 2 June 2014, assuming a industry associations, participating in Health and safety view to build out an incremental 130 consultations and providing direct in the wholesale power markets normal wind year.
linked to the tightening of the The health and safety of our to 150 MW by 2017.
Two projects, feedback, to ensure that the revised Scotland and the rest employees and all who may be accounting for 98 MW of that target, regulatory framework continues to reserve margin.
affected by our activities is a top which are fully consented, have of the UK are natural support onshore wind development, priority for us.
Recognising that scheduled grid energisation dates the most affordable renewable power partners to secure health and safety is very much a team and are in the final stages of presource after LFG.
Power Power under under effort, we work with our employees, construction procurement.
We have optimal synergies Proportion NFFO RO RO contractors, landlords and other appointed lenders to project finance We believe that we are well from investment in of expected fixed fixed Fixed fixed Not relevant stakeholders to improve one of the projects.
Our wind positioned to continue to contribute output price price total discount contracted Total safety for anyone who may be development pipeline is at various to the UKs renewable energy targets renewable capacity Contracting affected by our operations.
Our stages in the planning cycle.
In under both the RO and CfD schemes period Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and addition to the 98 MW which are in due to our proven track record of Dangerous Occurrence Regulations the final stages of pre-construction, building plants to budget and our Summer 14 11% 58% 69% 31% 0% 100% RIDDOR accident frequency rate we have an additional 17 MW procurement, commercial, Winter 14 15 5% 48% 53% 39% 8% 100% 1 dropped from 0.4 to 0.3.
We consented, 188 MW awaiting operational and financing expertise.
recognise that health and safety can planning approval, and 152 MW of only be maintained through pre-planning development phase.
The outcome of the Scottish continued focus and attention and so referendum in September 2014 will we have rigorous processes in place Regulatory outlook remove some of the uncertainty to maintain a culture of review and The Energy Act received Royal affecting future renewable capacity We believe that we are well positioned to improvement.
This dedication has Assent in December 2013 and investment in Scotland.
The continue to contribute to the UKs renewable been recognised externally through a constitutes a major step in the ambitious renewable targets set by Gold Award for Health and Safety governments plans to reform the the Scottish Government work well energy targets from the Royal Society for the electricity market whilst delivering within a wider single UK market for Prevention of Accidents and an on its three stated objectives of power where the remainder of the UK International Safety Award from the decarbonising energy generation, relies on the contribution of Scottish British Safety Council.
We have now ensuring security of supply and renewable power to meet binding EU been awarded a Gold Award for each providing affordable power to renewable targets by 2020.
Scotland of the last six years.
The new Contract-forand the rest of the UK are natural Difference CfD regime will not partners to secure optimal synergies Future developments affect Infinis existing installed from investment in renewable Growth plans: focus on onshore wind capacity which is fully grandfathered capacity and we expect there to be We continue to progress our organic under the RO.
Although the RO mutually beneficial long-term wind development portfolio with a scheme remains open for new arrangements in place to support 1 Reporting of Incidents, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR reportable incidents hours worked 12 months to 31 March 2014 compared to the 12 months to 31 March 2013 2 Ofgem Renewables and CHP Register MWh generated in 2013 latest available figures The numbers are based on January to December 2013, not the compliance period, which runs from April to March 01 18 Section one Strategic report: overview Annual report and accounts 2014 19 01 Chief Executives statement continued Power sold at fixed prices under the Going the extra mile RO scheme has been contracted at In FY14, we delivered our best In FY14, we delivered 47.60 MWh for Summer 14, and financial performance ever, with an 51.83 MWh for Winter 14 15.
EBITDA of 148.4 million, and with our best financial Summer 14 and Winter 14 15 the commissioning of the Tedder Hill performance ever, correspond to our financial year wind farm we completed, on budget, ending 31 March 2015.
Under the RO a significant wind farm construction with an EBITDA of scheme, in addition to revenues from programme.
We also streamlined our 148.4 million the sale of power, we also earn capital structure by refinancing ten revenues from the sale of ROCs, LECs separate wind project finance and receive embedded benefits.
facilities into a single debt facility shortly before listing Infinis Energy Over the medium-term, current plc on the London Stock Exchange.
forecasts for wholesale power We owe these achievements to the prices in the UK anticipate price rises superb dedication and commitment due to a tightening reserve margin.
of all of our employees who once This tightening is expected to arise again went the extra mile during a from the regulatory driven mandatory particularly busy year, for which I decommissioning of old fossil fuel offer my sincerest thanks.
We remain plants, political uncertainty in the fully committed to delivering an run-up to the general election and attractive dividend to our investors the referral of the Big Six to the based on our existing operating Competition and Markets Authority, assets and delivering future growth all of which may result in much as we build out our onshore wind needed additional capacity not pipeline.
We look forward to paying being built until the uncertainties our first post-IPO dividend in the are removed.
coming months and are confident we will continue to contribute to the UKs efforts to meet its 2020 renewable targets.
Eric Machiels Chief Executive Infinis Energy plc
