STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The goal is simple but demanding: progressively to return every part of our business to growth, and simultaneously to build the capabilities and platforms needed for future scale and consistent performance.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE www.
com 12 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS n 2014, Informa embarked on a period of I n the past year, we have made solid transition.
It was a year in which we took progress by introducing a simplified concerted action to enhance our business I performance and strengthen the leadership divisional operating model.
We also team, our operating model and our enhanced the management team, corporate culture.
refinanced our balance sheet and Steadily and surely, we have begun to deliver on this transition, with two overriding objectives: improving operational fitness, seized acquisition opportunities.
and creating the conditions for long-term growth.
Since our last Annual Report to shareholders, a long-term W e operate in some of the most growth strategy has been unveiled, building on the strong exciting and valuable sectors of basicfoundations of Informas Academic Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge our industry: specialist business &Networking Divisions.
This Strategic Report provides details information, must-have academic ofhow this strategy is being implemented through our Group Business Model page 19 and via the individual Business content, Exhibitions and events that Models of each of the four Operating Divisions from page 23. are a showcase for different sectors.
The goal is simple but demanding: progressively to return every part of our business to growth, and simultaneously to build the T he market opportunity is reflected capabilities and platforms needed for future scale and consistent performance.
by industry estimates that the In the past year, we have made solid progress by introducing Information Economy, in which asimplified divisional operating model.
We also enhanced the Informa operates, is worth more management team, refinanced our balance sheet and seized acquisition opportunities, particularly in the important US than 200bn globally.
market, to expand our Global Exhibitions business.
Together, these measures will deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
The Growth Acceleration Plan is To implement this strategy, we announced the 20142017 a multi-year strategy to improve Growth Acceleration Plan in July of last year.
operational performance and better As part of that plan, we expect the current year to be one of execution and delivery, positioning Informa for subsequent exploit the growth opportunities in growth and improving our ability to operate at scale.
In executing the Growth Acceleration Plan, your management team will prioritise financial discipline and operational focus, ensuring that we continue to deliver revenue growth, consistentunderlying profitsand positive cash generation.
The full year figures in this report reflect our focused performance in 2014.
There are significant challenges ahead, and there are areas ofour portfolio that require investment and an injection of freshthinking.
But the opportunities in the Knowledge and Information industries far outweigh the risks.
And this means that our management, Informa colleagues and shareholders can look forward with confidence to the period ahead.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 13 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED MARKET OPPORTUNITY Informas market opportunity, as we reshape the business, reflects the worldwide expansion of the Knowledge and Information Economy.
We operate in some of the most exciting and valuable sectors of our industry: specialist business information, must-have academic content, and business Exhibitions and events thatarea showcase for different sectors.
Informa benefits from business confidence, itself a by-product of economic growth, in markets such as the US, in China and parts of Western Europe such as the UK.
We are also exposed to long-term, predictable, areas of content demand, notably forthe academic journals and content published by Taylor &Francis.
We are also present in emerging markets, where growth rates remain attractive albeit volatile.
And we are leaders in specialist business-to-business Exhibitions, where demand from delegates and exhibitors alike is on the increase.
Your company is, therefore, well placed from a market perspective.
There are countries where we need to be bigger, notably the US, China, the Middle East and Africa.
But our overall geographic presence isbuilding and gives us a platform.
Nevertheless, this poses a challenge that we began to address in 2014: have we been operating effectively in all these markets, with the right mix of assets, the most efficient portfolio and the right go-to-market strategies?
We set out to answer those questions with a Group-wide review last year.
It confirmed the market opportunities before us: especially given the explosion in data sharing, business information exchange and demand forthe sort of specialist information that we provide.
The market opportunity is reflected by industry estimates that the Information Economy, in which Informa operates, is worth more than 200bn globally.
This figure is growing at 2% to 6% ayear, creating significant expansion potential for the Group.
DATA IS THE POWER Toseize those opportunities, Informa requires a more focused, BEHIND TODAYS growth-oriented and reorganised business proposition.
That is BUSINESSES what we started to put in place during 2014 a year in which we also delivered solid financial results.
It has been calculated that in 2013 there was 4.4ZB of data worldwide.
The past years results, set out in more detail in the Financial Review, reflect the attractive nature of the markets in which weoperate.
But they also show that we must take a long hard ZB look at our portfolio: we must maintain our financial discipline: and we must perform consistently during the coming period A zettabyte ZB is 1 followed by 21 zeros oftransition.
of bytes that is, a trillion gigabytes.
By 2020, that total is forecast to have FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE grown to 40ZB.
Such numbers are In the 12 months to 31 December 2014, Informa delivered unimaginably large.
We generate useful stable revenues of 1.13bn and adjusted operating profits of 334.1m.
This was a creditable performance given challenging information from this mass.
conditionsin some of our markets, particularly impacting Business Intelligence.
com 14 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS We generated strong free cash flow of 232.5m up futureexpansion and accelerated growth in 2014.
We concluded from207.8m in the prior year as our leading positions thata revised strategy was required to deliver growth in all our inAcademic Publishing and Global Exhibitions offset markets and improve the returns we generate for shareholders.
This was the basis for the Growth Acceleration Plan.
As part of the strategic review undertaken in 2014 and our 20142017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN annual assessment of the future returns from our businesses In July of last year, we announced the 20142017 Growth and investments, we reassessed our business portfolio, and Acceleration Plan, which is a multi-year strategy to improve the asset values attached to different businesses.
Following operational performance and better exploit the growth that review, we took a non-cash impairment charge of 219.0m opportunities in our core markets.
against our 12 month earnings, which resulted in a statutory As mentioned earlier in this report to shareholders and in that pre-tax loss for the year of 31.2m.
This reflects our of the Chairman the Growth Acceleration Plan aims to have determination to be financially prudent, and to continually allfour Operating Divisions delivering a positive organic growth reassess our portfolio mix.
Gareth Wright, who was appointed Group Finance Director The Growth Acceleration Plan comprises six core elements: during the year, explains the results and divisional performance anew operating structure for the Group: a strengthened in more detail in the Financial Review pages 56 to 59.
But management team: enhanced portfolio management: a shareholders can be reassured that our cash generation and focusedacquisition strategy: a new investment programme: earnings per share remain solid: our balance sheet is strong: andfinally, anew funding model.
Given the time that has and we have sufficient confidence in the trading outlook to elapsed since we first unveiled the Growth Acceleration Plan, recommend to the Board an increase to the full year dividend.
itis worth reminding shareholders about what we are In the current year and beyond, several parts of the business seekingtodo.
are growing and have the potential to grow faster.
And we believe we have the potential to double in size over the long term.
Given this opportunity, we laid down a roadmap for 2014-2017 GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN MEASURED CHANGE ACCELERATED CHANGE ACCELERATE AND SCALE Growth investment STRENGTHEN Performance acceleration Funding Return on investment OPERATIONAL FITNESS Portfolio management Strategic review T argeted mergers and acquisitions M&A Operating structure Catch-up investment Strengthening talent Organisational efficiencies Internal engagement www.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 15 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED T he 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan is a multi-year strategy to improve operational performance and better exploit the growth opportunities in our core markets.
OPERATING STRUCTURE The four Divisional Chief Executives have formed their own Under the operating structure unveiled in July 2014, Informa senior management teams through a mixture of internal now has four market-facing Operating Divisions: Academic transfers and external recruitment.
This leaves each Operating Division with a well-defined organisational structure and clear Publishing, Business Intelligence, Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking.
lines of authority and accountability.
I believe, as does the Board and management, that this structure At the Group level, Tom Moloney has joined Informa as Directorof Talent & Transformation, and Alex Roth as Director aligns the Group more closely with the markets it serves.
It improves our customer focus, and will encourage collaboration ofStrategy & Business Planning.
Each brings their own within business segments and across geographies.
Additionally, experience to their roles, complementing other internal it creates the potential to leverage scale more effectively.
appointments made to the Executive Management Team.
The four Operating Divisions are supported by a fifth Division: As the Chairman highlights in his report, we also added further Global Support, incorporating all central Group functions such valuable experience to the Board in 2014. as Shared Services, Information Technology and Finance.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT the Group builds scale globally, the Global Support Division One of the principles behind the Growth Acceleration Plan will become increasingly important in ensuring we maximise istocontinually reassess the mix and focus of the Group.
scale efficiencies across process functions and the broader Thisenables us to ensure we are allocating capital to the right backoffice.
areas, where the potential to improve returns are greatest.
STRENGTHENED MANAGEMENT TEAM Ourthorough review in 2014 led to a number of key decisions: As I mentioned earlier, Gareth Wright was appointed Group transferring the management of the Medical Journals Finance Director in July, stepping up from his previous role business from Business Intelligence to Academic asDeputy Finance Director.
Gareth explains our financial Publishing and several other small assets to Knowledge performance and the impact of balance sheet changes &Networking: following our 2014 refinancing on pages 56 to 59 of thisreport.
creating a single Informa operating centre in Shanghai, China: At the divisional operating level, we have appointed Patrick considering strategic alternatives for the smaller Martell as Chief Executive of Business Intelligence and Consumerinformation and forecasting businesses Andrew Mullins as Chief Executive of Knowledge & withinBusiness Intelligence: fully providing for the loans to the Chinese Pharmaceutical Networking.
They have brought fresh perspective and focus toour management planning in those businesses, and will data business: beimplementing a range of growth measures during 2015. closing our conference business in Johannesburg and eventsbusiness in Melbourne: and www.
com 16 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS taking an impairment against the carrying value of certain 5.
ORGANIC INVESTMENT information assets acquired as part of the 2007 Datamonitor One of the most significant elements of the Growth Acceleration acquisition, including the Consumer portfolio under review.
Plan is a commitment, over the next three years, toinvest up to 90m in a range of internal projects across theGroup.
ACQUISITION STRATEGY initiatives represent a mixture of catch-up investment and As part of the Growth Acceleration Plan, Informa has a targeted incremental growth projects, falling into four keycategories: and disciplined acquisition strategy to build scale and capability People and organisation across priority industry verticals and geographic markets.
Customer engagement and value creation In 2014, acquisition activity was primarily focused on the Global Product and content refresh Exhibitions Division, with a particular emphasis on building our Production agility and scale US presence.
This is the largest Exhibitions market in the world The investment programme spans all four Operating Divisions, and, consequently, it leads the industry in terms of innovation as well as the Global Support Division, with a particular and product development.
This Division is In August, we acquired Virgo Holdings and its portfolio of expected to account for about one third of the total spend.
sixmajor Health and Nutrition shows including SupplySide The deployment of capital into these initiatives will be carefully West.
This event complements our established Vitafoods managed, with each project assessed on its merits and Exhibition Brand, which runs the leading equivalent event fundsonly provided in stages, depending on delivery to inEurope, as well as events in Asia and Latin America.
Thisconfirms Informas position as the market leader inthisgrowing vertical.
The first priority projects were submitted for funding in January In December, we acquired Hanley Wood Exhibitions, with 2015 and the volume of work streams is expected to build aportfolio of 17 major Exhibitions and trade shows in through the year.
The Group expects to invest between Construction and Real Estate, including World of Concrete 70mand 90m in Growth Acceleration Plan projects and Greenbuild.
This acquisition complements our leading overthenext three years, withbetween 30m and 40m position within this vertical in Canada, through Brands such budgeted for 2015. as Construct and the Real Estate Global Forum, and in the It is anticipated that by 2017, the investment programme will Middle East, through the Cityscape series of events.
deliver a positive cash return on investment, with a full cash More recently, we completed the bolt-on acquisition of the payback expected the following year.
This expands our strong Canadian Fan Expo Pop Culture franchise further into 6.
FUNDING the US, following the acquisition of the Dallas ComiCon in The Groups ambition is to retain a robust financing framework 2014, strengthening our position in this exciting and fast for the duration of the 20142017 programme, incorporating a growing vertical.
varied and balanced mix of funding sources and maintaining These businesses offer the prospect of strong growth and net debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and good potential for synergies through customer marketing amortisation EBITDA within the Groups target range of 2.0 andgeo-cloning.
They enhance our existing presence in times to2.5 times.
This will ensure adequate liquidity to fund eachbusiness segment.
allelements of the Growth Acceleration Plan, including the investment programme and acquisition strategy.
Our funding With newly acquired businesses, we remain focused on plan will also allow the Group to meet its stated commitment post-acquisition integration, increasing the attention paid to toincrease annual dividends per share by a minimum of 2% businesses after they have been bought, to facilitate a smooth perannum through the 20142017 period.
and efficient transition and ensure potential synergies are maximised.
In our recently acquired businesses, forward The first step in delivering this strategy was the refinancing bookings are strong, and World of Concrete held in February ofthe Groups revolving credit facility in October 2014, with a 2015 reported an increase in revenue of more than 20% on maturity of October 2019, and increasing its size from 625m theprevious year.
to900m at an interest rate of LIBOR 0.6 to 1.2%, depending on the ratio of actual net debt EBITDA.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 17 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING THE INFORMA GROUP GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Informa has emerged from the 2014 transition year with purpose, with performance and with a clear plan for growth.
More recently, we raised 207m through the issue of 45m The year ahead will see further change as we continue with newshares.
This ensured that the Groups net debt to EBITDA theGrowth Acceleration Plan.
But we also expect to see ratio at year end stood at 2.2 times, within our target range, steadyoperational progress, as these changes start to providing ongoing flexibility for the pursuit of targeted haveapositive impact.
acquisitions, in line with the Growth Acceleration Plan I am confident that our operating discipline will ensure we also acquisition strategy.
continue to deliver on our promises and, in Year Two of the Growth Acceleration Plan, assuming current exchange rates OUR 2015 ROADMAP are maintained, we intend to deliver another year of adjusted I hope to have demonstrated that Informa has emerged from earnings growth, alongside our commitment to further dividend the 2014 transition year with purpose, with performance growth and over 30m of investment into the Growth andwith a clear plan for growth.
We have made a detailed Acceleration Plan.
assessment of our strengths and weaknesses: and we examined the global markets in which we operate to better understand This will require discipline and hard work throughout the Group.
our customers and the opportunities for expansion.
This led to It also depends on Informa preserving the best of itspast, our plan for accelerated growth.
It is a plan to ensure Informa andapplying its quality franchises and management talent achieves its full potential and improves returns for shareholders.
toafuture of sustained, focused growth.
We have made an encouraging start.
I firmly believe that all the right ingredients We have begun to put this plan into action.
We now have a are in place: we have assets from which to grow: an international simplified operating structure and a strengthened management team of talented colleagues: and an increasingly united vision team.
Our balance sheet is robust, providing flexibility to invest ofwhat can be achieved.
in the business and pursue acquisitions.
We have discipline and patience.
This gives us positive momentum and strong belief I would like to thank our shareholders, our customers, our we are on the right path.
suppliers and business partners for their support as we embarkon this growth strategy.
com 18 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014
