12 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHAIRMANS REVIEW CONTINUED GROWTH OVERVIEW ANDREW SUKAWATY Inmarsat continues to build on our strengths as CHAIRMAN a trusted provider of mobile satellite services to customers who have mission critical connectivity needs, where terrestrial wireless networks are not present, or are challenged.
The niche, which we have served now for 35 years, continues to grow as connections in our world become more and more essential for our business and personal lives.
Despite the challenges presented by government spending cutbacks by some of our biggest governmental customers, we have been able to grow in other sectors, such as aviation and maritime.
This clearly demonstrates the strength of our diverse business as individual market trends shift.
We strongly believe in the continued growth in global connectivity, particularly in remote environments.
Therefore we have focused our investment in new products, services and platforms that address this trend.
As a result, we are on the verge of entering a new era with the launch of our new Inmarsat-5 global satellite constellation, a $1.6 billion, fiveyear investment programme which will support our revolutionary high-throughput mobile broadband service, Global Xpress GX.
With the launch of the third satellite in the programme just around the CHAIRMANS REVIEW IN SUMMARY corner to deliver seamless global coverage, we will offer our customers truly revolutionary broadband connectivity on land, sea and air across the globe.
For our customers, this takes their mobile satellite ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR connectivity to the next generation and offers capabilities in these untethered environments to a FOR INMARSAT: place which was unimaginable only a decade ago.
BUILT ON OUR REPUTATION AS On the back of these investments, weve evolved a business structure to better align ourselves with our A TRUSTED PROVIDER distribution partners.
As part of a broad partnership arrangement to serve oil and gas customers, we CONTINUED GROWTH AND INVESTMENT divested our interests in the oil and gas sector to our new partner, RigNet, a rapidly growing major player in this market.
At the start of 2014 we CLOSELY ALIGNED OURSELVES WITH purchased Globe Wireless, one of the major communications applications providers to the OUR DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS maritime world.
We did this to enhance our capability to seamlessly work with our distribution partners and MAINTAINED THE HIGHEST LEVELS customers as they migrate to new, more advanced maritime broadband platforms.
In addition, we OF GOVERNANCE announced a new programme to develop Europes first hybrid satellite air to ground network using CONTINUED FOCUS ON PROVISION OF the S-band authorisation we were awarded by the European Union a few years ago.
We also sold our SAFETY SERVICES: ON LAND, AT SEA shareholding in SkyWave to ORBCOMM and have as a consequence enhanced our relationship with OR IN THE AIR them for machine-to-machine M2M opportunities.
More details on our strategy are contained in Rupert Pearces CEO section.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Rupert Pearce, our CEO, leads the Company, as he Our commitment to safety in these remote has for three years now, while I have stepped back environments remains strong as we invest in new into a Non-Executive role as Chairman.
As the only certied GMDSS Global At the start of 2014 pleased that Tony Bates joined us as CFO and an Maritime Distress Safety Service provider, we are Executive Director during the year.
Tony has already moving forward with plans for how we receive safety we purchased Globe made a significant contribution to the running of the certication for the next generation of Inmarsat Company and we are benefiting from his wealth of services.
This will assure the mariner that we have Wireless, one of the sector experience, both in finance and operations.
invested in maritime safety services capabilities for many years to come.
major communications PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY applications providers This year was marked by a tragic event, in which In addition, Inmarsat continues to contribute to Inmarsat played a quite visible role: the loss of emergency service responders globally.
We support, to the maritime world.
First, our deepest nancially, and with the provision of terminals, condolences go out to the families and friends of Tlcoms Sans Frontires and the International those who lost loved ones.
Due to the highly unusual Telecommunications Union ITU programmes, We are also pleased to announce that we increased set of events, that have yet to be fully explained, which provide telecoms connectivity for aid agencies our dividend for the ninth consecutive year.
We Inmarsat was put in the role of providing data, to help and stricken people in times of both human and have now delivered dividend increases every year locate the aircraft, to the government authorities natural disasters.
since we listed on the London Stock Exchange in in charge of the investigation and now search.
The final dividend for the year is 30.26 cents US$ per share, which is a 5% increase on last year.
Inmarsat was created 35 years ago by the UN to Our stated intent to deliver sustainable dividend provide safety services at sea, which evolved to increases continues to deliver value for our safety services in the air as well.
We take this global shareholders even through the peak of intensive public service seriously and we are dedicated to investment cycles.
We are proud of the work our teams have done to support the efforts to locate the BOARD ACTIVITIES missing aircraft and we hope it will, in some way, Your Board continues to add value to the Company contribute to determining its location, helping by bringing diverse experience, views and expertise bring closure to the families involved.
Many of our Board members joined at the time of the IPO in 2005 and therefore Looking forward, Inmarsat is working hard with the know our complex business well, yet they remain global, regional and national aviation authorities, clearly independent.
We have though started the to improve the capabilities and standards for Our work with national and local governments process of bringing in new members to the Board, aviation safety.
This involves not only ight tracking, globally also continues to expand, as the importance maintaining the strength of thinking and strategic but also real-time ight diagnostics, black box over of having mobile satellite connectivity in situations contribution at the Board table.
In 2014 we added the air transmissions black box in the cloud and where the terrestrial networks are either taken out of Ret.
General C. Robert Kehler to the Board, who many other potential enhancements.
Most of service, or congested, becomes seen as an essential brings a global perspective on our government these capabilities can be enabled using the existing element of local disaster planning and response.
In addition, weve announced the communications systems on aircraft, particularly addition of Rob Ruijter as a Non-Executive Director, on long haul commercial aircraft, in which the vast SUMMARY who brings a wealth of global financial management majority already have installed Inmarsat satellite In summary, 2014 was another successful year for experience, and more recently, we announced that services.
Let us hope that this tragedy is a catalyst Inmarsat.
With the commencement of regional Dr Hamadoun Tour would be joining our Board.
to taking ight safety, which is already at a high level, Global Xpress services, and a host of new service Dr Tour has spent the last eight years as the Secretary to an even higher level of capability for the future.
offerings on our existing L-band satellite General of the International Telecommunications constellations, we are better positioned than ever Union and is also deeply experienced in the global to continue as a leader in providing mobile and satellite and space industries.
Simon Bax, who joined portable connectivity on land, at sea and in the air.
our Board in 2013, will take on the chairmanship of We are positioned to grow further as we leverage our Remuneration Committee in May.
Stephen future opportunities resulting from the significant Davidson, the current chairman, will remain on the investments we have made.
Looking forward, Committee and continue as a Director and we thank him for his many years of diligent service in this We would also like to thank our staff globally for Inmarsat is working vital role for us.
their dedication and hard work that has allowed us hard with the global, to deliver another year of market-leading quality As this evolution of the Board membership services for our partners and customers.
We also regional and national occurs, we are focused on maintaining continuity value the continued support from our shareholders in understanding the business of the Board, while and look forward to continuing to deliver value aviation authorities, to at the same time bringing in new and diverse points to them over the coming years.
In addition, we are maintaining the highest improve the capabilities standards of independent governance.
It is a Board that contributes greatly to the business and it is ANDREW SUKAWATY and standards for a privilege to work with them all.
5 March 2015 We conducted an internal evaluation of the Board during 2014 and can report, while there are always areas to improve, your Board is functioning effectively.
Our Executive Management team continues to evolve and perform well.
14 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW DRIVING SUCCESS THROUGH INNOVATION BUSINESS OVERVIEW RUPERT PEARCE I am pleased with the overall performance of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE business in 2014, as we met our financial targets OFFICER for the year at the same time as continuing to progress several key innovation programmes that will play a profound role in our future accelerated growth plans.
2014 was a year of transition, en route to the global launch of our revolutionary new Inmarsat-5 network.
We delivered revenue growth of 1.9% and EBITDA growth of 8% which was a solid achievement.
Wholesale Mobile Satellite Services MSS revenue grew year-on-year Global Xpress GX commercial services started on Inmarsat-5 F1, our first Inmarsat-5 satellite Inmarsat-5 F2 launched successfully on 1 February 2015 European Aviation Network programme was announced and the first MSS and complementary ground component licences were acquired Integration of Globe Wireless business within our Maritime Business Unit has gone well Disposals of key assets have been handled well with no impact on customers Innovative products and services launched across all Business Units CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW IN SUMMARY The details of the financial performance for each of the Business Unit sectors, and our Central Services sector which covers all other parts of the OUR INVESTMENTS ALLOW US TO business is provided in the Chief Financial Ofcers review of the year.
In summary, we saw positive GROW THROUGH: revenue contributions from our Maritime, Enterprise and Aviation businesses, plus a significant financial MAJOR INNOVATIONS ARE KEY TO contribution from LightSquared, reected in overall total revenue growth.
This was offset by a decline ACCELERATED GROWTH in Government revenues albeit that growing contributions from our Global Government business INVESTMENT SUPPORTING PRODUCT stemmed in part the continuing revenue reduction in our US Government business.
AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT In May 2014 we raised $1bn on the bond market, which allowed us to review our borrowing ENHANCING GROWTH THROUGH arrangements and put in place cheaper funding.
DIVERSIFICATION AND GEOGRAPHIC We were able to complete the bond transaction quickly and successfully, reecting the positive way EXPANSION Inmarsat is viewed by financial institutions.
A significant contributor to revenues and profitability STRENGTHENING OUR GLOBAL in 2014 was our collaboration with LightSquared.
Having restarted payments to us under our existing CHANNEL WITH NEW PARTNERSHIPS cooperation agreement with them during 2014, LightSquared delivered revenues of $75.4m in 2014 EMBRACING ORGANISATIONAL CHANGE almost all of which ows to EBITDA.
However, at the time of writing, LightSquared remains in Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the US and there can be no assurance A glossary can be found on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Ku-band competitors.
This successful provision of service is a significant risk retirement on one part of the GX programme and means that we can look We were delighted that the Proton launch vehicle, forward with confidence to I-5 F2, also progressing safely through its deployment and test stages with a which we have commissioned for the first three view to entering full commercial service in Q2 2015.
Inmarsat-5 ights, has now successfully delivered We also have a fourth Inmarsat-5 satellite under construction I-5 F4, due to be delivered in mid into orbit two of the three Inmarsat-5s needed 2016 and we secured a launch option for this to ensure seamless global coverage for our satellite with SpaceX, a new launch provider for us.
This substantially fide-risks the possibility of damage revolutionary high-throughput services.
to the GX programme by a launch failure of I-5 F3, as I-5 F4 could replace it within roughly a year and it can provide us with additional capacity for future enhanced growth when we need it.
We are already developing some incremental business opportunities for I-5 F4 to support its launch as an additional satellite in the event of a successful I-5 F3 launch.
In addition to the GX satellite launch and operation activities, we enhanced our satellite capabilities.
We brought Alphasat into service, supporting our handheld GSPS services in our most heavily trafcked satellite region.
Alphasat is Europes most sophisticated telecommunications satellite and will be of significant benefit to us in carrying our L-band service trafc in the future and providing redundancy for the Inmarsat-4 satellite constellation.
We also ordered a new satellite, Europasat, in partnership with HellasSat.
It will deliver new S-band services across the European Union.
We announced in May 2014 the development of a highly innovative Air to Ground network, to be integrated with Europasats satellite capabilities to target the emerging European aviation passenger connectivity markets a key strategic initiative for us.
We will be a leader in developing an integrated hybrid  network for broadband services.
Supporting our new satellite construction programmes, we signed an innovative three satellite launch deal with SpaceX, the new and rapidly emerging launch services company.
This positions Inmarsat in the vanguard for the use of the new Falcon Heavy rocket, which we can use for the that further payments will be received from them first Inmarsat-5 satellite, called Inmarsat-5 F1 or I-5 Inmarsat-5, and the Inmarsat-6 programme.
We remain fully committed F1, which was launched in December 2013: followed to supporting LightSquared under the terms of our by the successful launch of our second Inmarsat-5 Our work is not only about launching and managing agreement with them.
We were satellites, it is also about safely decommissioning delighted that the Proton launch vehicle, which we them when they come to their end of life.
In 2014 Later in the Annual Report on pages 20 and 21, have commissioned for the first three Inmarsat-5 we successfully deorbited the final one of our we lay out details of the markets we operate in, ights, has now successfully delivered into orbit Inmarsat-2 satellites.
Once again, this final satellite the changes we are seeing in how we plan for our two of the three Inmarsat-5 satellites needed in the Inmarsat-2 constellation performed superbly business growth and I also summarise our strategy to ensure seamless global coverage for our throughout its life, operating for more than twice its and key risks within our operations.
We are design life, for over 20 years.
planning for the launch of Inmarsat-5 F3 to take Overall the business has met its objectives place in Q2 2015.
Having a reliable satellite and network capability throughout the year and my review will reect on which consistently exceeds 99.9% availability, gives the different activities we undertook and also how I-5 F1 entered regional commercial service mid-way us the comfort that our partners and customers the contribution of our staff is critical to our success.
during 2014 - meaning that, from the Western coast can rely on us, wherever they are and in whatever of Africa to the middle of Australia, we are now able circumstance they need communications INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS to offer Global Xpress GX services, although not connectivity.
It has been a very demanding year from an yet across our full range of planned service offerings.
infrastructure perspective, as we continue to invest I am delighted to report that Global Xpress is working heavily in transformational future growth.
Exciting well, with ultra-fast data speeds even to very small news in 2014 was the successful deployment of our antenna and rain fade resilience at or better than 16 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED terminate our services in Russia.
We hope that their plans will mature during 2015 and provide future additional revenue opportunities through opening up hitherto closed markets.
Elsewhere, our internationalisation programme driven by our Global Government group, but also rapidly driving growth opportunities for our Enterprise team too is nearly at the end of a three-year transformation programme to rebalance our government and commercial land activities into new and exciting growth markets.
We are now operating for the first time, or have substantially enlarged our presence in more than 30 countries including Brazil, China, Colombia, Israel, Kazakhstan, Oman, Poland, Saudi Arabia, the Scandinavian region and Turkey.
Together, these ventures are demonstrating excellent pipeline growth, so we are optimistic that we can achieve revenue growth through GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION We also have products which have been developed geographic expansion.
We increased the pace of product and service for use on our GX Ka-band satellites across all innovation in 2014 and this focus has continued our varying services on land, at sea and in the GROWTH THROUGH CHANNEL into 2015 when we held our first successful Inmarsat air.
Government customers have been using GX DEVELOPMENT Developers Conference in January.
We are working terminals since mid-2014 and other users have been A key goal of ours is to support our growth ambitions closely with our traditional partners, as well as some coming on-stream in early 2015.
We are delighted through a strong and positive relationship with our new technology partners.
In 2014 we launched with the collaboration and efforts of our Value Added global channel partners.
several important new products and services which Manufacturing partners for their tireless work with us we expect to be significant contributors to our over the last 12 months.
We added several important new partners during future growth, including: 2014 including RigNet, the leading Energy satcoms I am very proud of our achievements in 2014 connectivity player, ORBCOMM, the leading M2M IsatPhone 2, our latest high-quality satphone and already in 2015 we have really increased the connectivity platform operator, and Swank NT Digital that we expect to maintain our strong position pace of our product and service innovation.
Success as the master distributor for our new Fleet Media in the handheld market: will be measured by our relationships and ability to content offering.
These new relationships provide an FleetOne, a major broadband product launch work closely and collaboratively with Value Added important extension to our global coverage and to into the shing, leisure and coastal merchant Manufacturers and innovators who are committed, our product and service capabilities.
We also benefit maritime markets, which we believe is a new agile, inventive and far-sighted.
from having relationships with highly capable, market opportunity for us: specialist partners to help us in certain geographies IsatHub, the first step in the reinvention of the GROWTH THROUGH GEOGRAPHIC where they have local knowledge.
BGAN product platform, delivering smartphone EXPANSION coverage extension for voice and data services It is vital to create new growth opportunities through A focus for us over the last year in particular has been at low cost: sustained innovation: however we can also deliver to ensure we are ready for entry into commercial BGAN HDR, taking the BGAN offering up to new enhanced growth and diversication rapidly through service of our Global Xpress service and to do this data speeds, of particular signicance for Media, expanding geographic access to our services.
effectively, we need to have appointed respected Government and high-end Enterprise customers: and capable partners.
So far, we have appointed Low-prole BGAN, offering a highly-rugged, We opened a brand new GSPS gateway and BGAN 27 GX Value Added Resellers VARs across all our discreet BGAN deployment for security and SAS in China at the end of 2013 and these facilities Business Units, representing an incredibly powerful Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance became fully operational during 2014.
This was the roster of launch partners for this new service.
ISR needs: culmination of years of work to deliver a fully-open L-TAC, a hugely innovative way in which we can market for our services in China and we worked re-purpose our L-band network to support closely with our local partners to make this a reality.
thousands of UHF radios already deployed in We believe there are growing revenue opportunities the eld requiring extension of coverage or in China.
increased network capacity: and Fleet Media, an innovative way of distributing We are working closely with one of our key partners entertainment content movies, TV shows, in Russia to assist it in progressing its plans to sports and news to ships crews.
build BGAN ground infrastructure to access and A key goal of ours is to support our growth ambitions through a strong and positive relationship with our global channel partners.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD RUPERT PEARCE TONY BATES MICHELE FRANCI RUY PINTO Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Chief Technology officer Group Chief Operations officer GREG EWERT PETER HADINGER ALISON HORROCKS DEBBIE JONES President, Enterprise President, US Government Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Business Unit Business Unit Corporate Governance Corporate Development and Company Secretary LEO MONDALE MIRIAM MURPHY RONALD SPITHOUT ANDY START President, Aviation Group General Counsel President, Maritime President, Business Unit Business Unit Global Government Business Unit ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT We had a staff survey in February 2014 which In recent years we have embraced significant was completed by 94% of our staff a response organisational change in order to be a more agile rate which is outstanding.
In the Corporate Social In 2015 we are and fast-moving business.
Over the last 12 months Responsibility CSR section on pages 45 and 46 we have created a new Aviation Business Unit which more information is provided on the feedback we embarking on some is led today by Leo Mondale who has been with the received from the survey and the actions we took.
As part of our management One key indicator was the pride staff feel working significant training succession planning which we review with the at Inmarsat.
One element of the survey was around Inmarsat Board on an annual basis, I am delighted pay for staff and during 2014 we completed a global commitments for that we were able to promote from within to move salary benchmarking review and as a consequence managers and on Ronald Spithout from President of our Enterprise committed more than was budgeted to correct Business Unit to become President of our Maritime salaries for staff to take them to more competitive focused leadership Business Unit and we promoted Greg Ewert levels.
After a year where we had a salary freeze in who joined Inmarsat three years ago to head 2013, it was highly appropriate that we were able training for our Global the Enterprise Business Unit.
Another internal to adjust staff salaries in 2014 across the Group appointment was Michele Franci becoming on average by approximately 7%.
The 2014 Year of Engagement has transitioned Two senior hires from outside the Company were the into our 2015 Year of Enablement, where we appointments of Tony Bates as our Chief Financial are embarking on some significant training In early 2014 we sold the assets of our retail energy officer in June 2014 and Miriam Murphy who joined commitments for managers throughout the business to RigNet, a significant oil and gas operator as Group General Counsel in September 2014.
Both Company and on focused leadership training for in the satellite industry, and around 200 people left these executives are experienced professionals and our Global Leadership Team, comprising around Inmarsat with the vast majority moving to RigNet.
Im delighted theyve chosen to join Inmarsat.
We will 50 staff members from across the business.
Another We work with many of them now that RigNet is a benefit greatly from their experience.
I am delighted focus for the Year of Engagement is a thorough distributor of Inmarsat services and we are very at how the senior management team has responded review of our systems and processes with a focus pleased with how our relationship is working.
Around to the new challenges Ive asked them to manage on how we can simplify operations and become the same time in 2014, we acquired a similar number and I believe the business is well led with the more effective and efficient internally, for example of staff in our Maritime Business Unit when staff 12-strong Executive team we have in place.
through changes in our systems and processes, joined us from Globe Wireless.
We are delighted IT infrastructure, billing operations and other how quickly and positively this integration of We also undertook a series of internal initiatives similar related activities.
to improve in many ways how we work and function together: the actions in 2014 are termed our Year of Engagement and those in 2015 our Year of Enablement.
