IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Chief Executive Officers review 2014 was an excellent year for IHG.
We made significant progress in delivering our winning strategy for high-quality growth, and reported strong financial and operational performance.
We also made good progress with our asset-light strategy.
IHG is in a position of strength, a position Our acquisition of Kimpton Hotels which has been enhanced by another year & Restaurants see page 21, which of excellent delivery against our strategic completed in January 2015, is an example priorities.
We remained focused on of how each element of the model came building our compelling scale position into play and will help support our in what is a growing global marketplace, ambitions for the brand in the as we continued to build, develop, and medium term.
shape our business and our brands for Our Winning Model in action the future.
We achieved strong RevPAR Kimpton Hotels & Restaurants is a performance, opened the highest number well-established and highly successful of hotels since 2009 and reported growth business that has grown to become the in net System size.
worlds leading boutique hotel business We also made good progress with our with a portfolio of world-class hotels and asset-light strategy with the sale of destination restaurants.
This distinctive InterContinental Mark Hopkins San and innovative brand fits perfectly into IHG is in a position of Francisco and the disposal of 80 per cent our brand family, alongside our highly strength, a position which of our interest in InterContinental New successful Hotel Indigo and EVEN Hotels York Barclay, as well as the acceptance brands, creating the worlds largest has been enhanced by of a binding offer for InterContinental boutique hotel business.
We will use our another year of delivery Paris Le Grand.
scale, network of owner relationships and powerful digital platforms to against our strategic Our Winning Model accelerate its growth both within the The Winning Model is our framework priorities.
US and globally see page 21. for delivering value for our shareholders and owners through our portfolio of Our scale Richard Solomons preferred brands, talented people and With a five per cent share of the global Chief Executive Officer leading revenue delivery systems.
We industry supply of rooms and 13 per cent are focused on delivering against all of the active industry pipeline, IHG enjoys components of this model, combining it significant scale advantages in what is a with a targeted approach to building our competitive industry.
During 2014, we portfolio and disciplined execution, all continued to build our scale, focusing on underpinned by our commitment to being our priority markets such as the United a responsible business.
On pages 16 and States and Greater China see page 18.
17, we have set out why each element of This resulted in us achieving a series of the model is so critical to our business milestones in the year, including our and have provided more detail on the highest ever number of hotel openings excellent progress we made during the in Greater China see pages 19 and course of 2014.
This includes our superior 46 to 48. owner proposition.
com ihgowners, you will find a message from Buggsi Patel, 2014 Chairman of the IHG Owners Association, on his highlights from the year.
8 GROUP PARENT COMPANY ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION Epic Miami, A Kimpton Hotel, Florida, US EVEN Hotel Rockville, Maryland, US HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts, Peoples Republic of China Our brands We have also taken an innovative approach our disaster relief programme, IHG Our award-winning preferred brands to evolving our loyalty and digital offer Shelter in a Storm, responded to 18 continued to go from strength to strength.
around the Guest Journey with the launch disasters in nine countries.
InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is twice of initiatives such as Mobile Check-in and Finally, I would like to take this opportunity the size of any other luxury hotel brand and Check-out and further improvements to thank those who work across IHG and the Holiday Inn brand family is the largest to our number one rated mobile app.
its brands globally for the energy and global mainstream brand.
We also opened Continuing to evolve and enhance our enthusiasm they bring to the business.
th th the 400 Crowne Plaza hotel and 200 digital capabilities will be a key area With their support, and together with our Staybridge Suites hotel during the year.
of focus for us over the coming years.
owners, we can look forward to another The number of awards our brands receive Trust excellent year ahead.
externally is remarkable, reflecting the In the context of this changing landscape, work we have been doing to build the theme of Trust was more important awareness, recognition and guest than ever and was the main theme of our satisfaction.
In 2014 alone, our brands 2015 Trends Report see page 10 for more won over 300 global, regional and hotel details.
The report argues that Trust th level awards.
Capital is now the 4 C of organisational value alongside Human, Financial and For the sixth consecutive year, Richard Solomons Intellectual Capital and is a key factor InterContinental Hotels & Resorts was Chief Executive Officer for consumers in making brand choices.
named Worlds Leading Hotel Brand Our people play a critical role in building at the 2014 World Travel Awards: and for trust with our guests and owners.
They are the tenth consecutive year, IHG Rewards responsible for delivering a differentiated Club has been recognised as Best Hotel brand experience for our guests see pages Rewards Programme in the World by 16 and 23 and as such we work hard to Global Traveler magazine.
IHG as a build our winning culture and our company also had a successful year employer brand and maintain our high we were listed as one of FORTUNE Employee Engagement survey scores Magazines Worlds Most Admired see page 32.
Companies, named as the Best British Business in China and came third in Responsible Business The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies Operating as a Responsible Business to Work For list.
underpins each of our strategic priorities and is a commitment everyone working Innovating for the future at IHG is responsible for delivering We have continued to build on our long see page 24 and 25.
We made excellent history of innovation to help us both progress with each of our three corporate navigate and evolve our business for responsibility programmes during the success in what is a changing world.
We announced the This is supported by our focus on global roll-out of our environmental delivering preferred brands, building sustainability tool, IHG Green Engage, as lifetime relationships with our guests and a brand standard, which was a powerful developing our strong direct channels.
demonstration of our commitment to In 2014, we opened the first two EVEN protecting the environment.
More recently, th Hotels see page 20 to critical acclaim, we announced the opening of our 600 and in February 2015, we opened the first IHG Academy.
Launched in 2006, the hotel for the HUALUXE Hotels and Resorts programme provides local people with brand.
Both of these new brands address bespoke skills-development and previously unmet guests needs.
