Strategic Report Chief Executives letter Justin King, Chief Executive Our customers care about where their Dear Shareholder, shopping comes from and how it is produced.
They trust us to make the right In the context of a rapidly changing decisions on their behalf across all our marketplace we have delivered ranges, from basics through to Taste the Difference.
We believe this gives us a clear, good profit growth, outperforming long-term, strategic advantage and we are 1 proud, for example, that we are the largest our Big Four peers and growing retailer of Fairtrade products in the world, sales in line with the market.
Our that all our eggs are from non-caged hens and that we have been the largest retailer market share remains at its highest ofMarine Stewardship Council sustainable for a decade.
We are focused on seafood for the past four years.
delivering high quality, affordable Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer where people love to work and shop, and products across all our channels, thisyear we recorded around 24 million helping our customers Live Well for customer transactions per week, an increase of one million since last year.
Our long-term strategy 161,000 colleagues working in our stores, depots and store support centres and it is positions us well to continue to down to their hard work and commitment deliver for customers, colleagues that our service standards remain consistently high, a fact recognised in and shareholders.
About 12 million people regularly use their Nectar card when they shop with us.
Together with coupon-at-till technology, this Consumer confidence has been slowly Despite the broader economic challenges gives us significant competitive advantage improving over the last 12 months, but and growing competition, we were the only and allows us to provide our customers truly budgets remain under pressure.
The trend Big Four supermarket to maintain market targeted offers which reflect what they buy 2 forsavvy shopping is now well entrenched, share this year at 16.8 per cent.
Our and incentivises multi-channel shopping.
In with customers shopping little and often, own-brand food and general merchandise addition, Brand Match, now in its third year, mixing visits to supermarkets, convenience ranges, with their focus on quality, value and continues to reinforce the competitiveness of and discount stores with online purchases.
provenance, are growing market share.
supermarkets and our key growth channels This is changing the grocery retail landscape, of convenience and online allow customers with market growth overall being delivered in to shop with us whenever and however they the discount, convenience and online want.
As a business we are focused on channels.
The share of market held by core investing to ensure that Sainsburys grocery supermarkets has declined markedly continues to bring customers an attractive in the last 12 months.
differentiated offer, underpinned by our quality, service and values.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 4 Market share Growing space and property value Source: Kantar Worldpanel total till roll for the 52 weeks to 2 March 2014 We are delivering space growth in line with our plans and have increased our estate by 1million sq ft, opening 13 supermarkets, six extensions and 91 convenience stores during Other the year.
We are leveraging our property Lidl assets working with joint venture partners to deliver residential, commercial and leisure Aldi Waitrose opportunities alongside new trading space.
Following a review of our property pipeline earlier this year, we identified some sites 16.8% where we no longer wish to build a Co-op supermarket, resulting in a 92 million Sainsburys impairment.
Nonetheless we continue to see opportunities for future growth.
Our property Morrisons portfolio is valued at 12.0 billion whilst sale and leaseback activity during the year Tesco generated profits of 52 million.
Our values make us different Asda Our values are part of our 145-year heritage, differentiating us from other retailers and providing a real competitive advantage.
We have continued to make progress against our Great food Complementary channels and 20x20 Sustainability Plan across each of our services We have invested in our own-brand ranges five values.
I am particularly proud that which are growing at over twice the rate of Sainsburys is recognised as a great place to Developing channels and services branded lines and account for over half our work through the development, support complementary to our existing supermarket food sales.
From basics through to Taste the and the motivation of our colleagues we business is key to our long-term strategy for Difference, our values and the integrity of our were again awarded Investors in People Gold growth.
Ensuring people can shop whenever products are the same across all our ranges.
Accreditation, the only supermarket to and however they want is a strong driver of 3 We have long supported British farming and receive this accolade.
loyalty average spend more than doubles this year we achieved 100 per cent British when customers shop in our supermarkets, sourcing for all our fresh pork, breaded and Handing over to Mike Coupe convenience stores and online.
We now have roast chicken, frozen chicken and chicken more convenience stores than supermarkets After ten wonderful years at Sainsburys, portions.
Our popular fresh and hot food in our store estate, and convenience sales Iwill leave the business at our AGM in July counters are now in more than 500 stores have grown at around 19 per cent.
This year, and will hand over to Mike Coupe, our Group and to date, more than 29,000 colleagues we opened our first Convenience Training Commercial Director.
Mike played an have received City & Guilds-accredited College in Brixton, London, which will provide instrumental role in our Making Sainsburys training through our seven Food Colleges.
training courses to colleagues and support Great Again plan and is ideally equipped to our growth in the convenience market.
lead Sainsburys as the Company continues to Compelling general merchandise Groceries Online reached the significant develop and grow in tune with the changing and clothing milestone of 1 billion in annual sales this consumer and industry environment.
year, representing growth of over 12 per cent.
We offer a winning formula of high street It has been a privilege to lead the Company style and quality at supermarket prices.
In January, we acquired the remaining 50 over the last ten years.
I am very proud of Non-food sales are growing at over twice the per cent of Sainsburys Bank from Lloyds the team and of what we have achieved rate of food and we are increasing market Banking Group.
The Bank is now a whollytogether.
It is the 161,000 colleagues that share in key categories.
Our non-food ranges owned subsidiary and we expect it to make Sainsburys so special and I would like are on sale in over 400 stores and 34 per cent become an increasingly important part of to thank them for their amazing efforts over of our customers can now access, within a the value that customers receive from the last decade.
15minute drive, the full non-food offer, Sainsburys, further driving customer loyalty.
compared to 11 per cent six years ago.
However, with only one in five of our Developing new business supermarkets offering the full range, we still have opportunities for growth in this area.
Identifying new areas of growth beyond our Currently in 53 stores, our new department core is also part of our long-term strategy, Justin King store layout has proved to be popular with although growth in this area has been slower Chief Executive our customers and this concept will be in than we would have liked.
We are continuing over 150 stores by the end ofnext year.
to develop our digital entertainment offer enabling customers to enjoy their favourite ebooks, films and music when, where and how they want.
Our pharmacy business continues to develop through in-store and hospital outpatient pharmacies.
1 Big F our peers refers to Tesco, Morrisons and Asda 2 Kantar 52 weeks to 2 March 2014 3 Versus spend when customers only shop in our supermarkets J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 5
