CEOs review The Group performed well in 2014 reflecting the impact of completed strategic acquisitions and our diversified portfolio of geographic markets, customers and services.
Financial In August, we appointed a new Group Head of HSSE, Nina Schofield, The Group performed well in 2014, delivering EBITA of $549.6m up to continue our focus on improvement and further developing assurance 3.1% and AEPS of 99.6c up 1.0% in line with expectations, against a across the Group.
backdrop of increased focus on efficiency by operators and a decline in oil price in the 4th quarter.
The Groups financial performance reflected Organic growth has accounted for close to 70% of the Groups growth the impact of completed strategic acquisitions and our diversified since IPO and remains a primary objective.
As such we continued to portfolio of geographic markets, customers and services which enhance our approach and processes in 2014, identifying and securing positioned the Group well to benefit from areas of growth such as the opportunities across our business through over 2,000 individual US onshore market.
Overall, the results reflect strong growth in Wood contract awards.
Our order book relative to future sales is at the lower Group PSN Production Services more than offsetting the anticipated end of 6-9 months in our Engineering business and over 12 months in reduction in Wood Group Engineering and weaker performance in Wood Group PSN Production Services.
Collaboration has been an important focus area in the year.
Working Our strong balance sheet provides us with both security and flexibility.
together as a Group developing the strong relationships we have with In early 2015 we extended our $950m bilateral borrowing facilities to our customers has increased our pipeline of opportunities and we have 2020 and achieved a material improvement in pricing.
Also in 2014, we secured several contracts including ExxonMobil in Malaysia, Tatweer in issued $375m of unsecured notes in the US private placement market, Saudi Arabia and Cabinda in Angola, which we do not believe would which further diversified our funding and extended the maturity profile.
Average net debt during the year was $416.4m including JVs, and net debt at the year-end on a similar basis was $295.7m, around the lower In 2014, we have seen the full year benefit of the successful acquisitions end of our stated preferred range of 0.5x-1.5x net debt to EBITDA.
of Elkhorn in the US and Pyeroy in the UK, both of which have delivered notable growth since acquisition in 2013.
We invested a further $217.3m on M&A in the year.
We acquired Sunstone, a Calgary based pipeline Operational consultancy: Cape Software, a Texas based training and process In 2014, we continued to deliver our strategy underpinned by our focus on simulation company: Meesters, a specialist fabrication business in the safety, organic growth, collaboration, acquisitions and risk management.
Bakken shale region: Agility Projects AS, an offshore greenfield and brownfield company in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea: and in The safety of our people and those affected by what we do is our top December we acquired Swaggart, a provider of civil construction and priority.
In 2014, across our workforce we had no fatalities and our fabrication services in in the US.
We also entered into a joint venture total recordable case frequency TRCF and our lost work case frequency with Siemens, called EthosEnergy, in May, to improve the longer term LWCF measures both showed improvement in the year.
positioning of our less differentiated Turbine Activities.
6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2014 2013 2014 Group performance $m $m Change Total Revenue 7,616.4 7,064.2 7.8% 1 Total EBITA 549.6 533.0 3.1% EBITA margin % 7.2% 7.5% 0.3pts Revenue from continuing operations on an equity accounting basis 6,574.1 5,753.2 14.3% Profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptionals on an 414.5 373.7 10.9% equity accounting basis Basic EPS 87.9c 81.4c 8.0% 2 Adjusted diluted EPS 99.6c 98.6c 1.0% Total dividend 27.5c 22.0c 25.0% 5 ROCE 17.7% 19.4% 1.7pts Note: The commentary below on trading performance is presented based on proportionally consolidated numbers, which is the basis used by management to run the business.
Total Revenue and Total EBITA include the contribution from joint ventures and activities classified as discontinued, which includes the results of the businesses that transferred to the EthosEnergy joint venture prior to its formation in May.
Our risk profile remains key to how we manage the business and The resilience of our through cycle model is demonstrated in the establish an appropriate balance of through-cycle resilience with historic earnings growth profile of the Group.
I have confidence that my upside potential.
We strive to maintain a diversified portfolio of management teams significant experience and long record of success geographic markets, customers and services.
We are an asset light in cyclical oil and gas markets will ensure we take the steps necessary to people business with significant flexibility, and around 60% of our maximise performance in the new commodity price environment.
revenues are customer opex driven relating to existing production.
We are also a primarily reimbursable business with around 95% of Group revenue on this basis.
Reaction to a lower oil price environment We are taking a number of actions in the lower price environment.
Firstly, we are increasing our business development focus, highlighting how we can help our customers achieve their objective of reduced Bob Keiller, CEO cost and increased efficiency.
The lower oil price brings challenges for our customers, and we are in active discussions with them to assess how we can work together to improve performance from new and existing assets and reduce costs without affecting the safety or the integrity of the assets they operate.
We are implementing plans to maintain and increase our own efficiency to ensure our ongoing competitiveness.
This will continue to emphasise the importance of collaboration across Wood Group: management of our people utilisation levels: a range of short-term and longer-term actions designed to manage and reduce cost: and increased focus on credit risks.
Our internal focus on efficiency is anticipated to lead to cost reductions and deferrals of over $30m in comparison to 2014.
Alongside this, we will continue to look to make value adding acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy but will apply tougher filters on these acquisitions reflecting the macro environment.
6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 7 7
