8 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 1.
Overview Chief Executives Statement In Summary Group performed well in 2013 14.
Johnson Matthey performed well in 2013 14, delivering growth through value Sales excluding precious metals adding sustainable technologies.
group has made progress this year, not Underlying profit before tax 12% only in its financial results, but across the broader areas of health and safety, ahead at 427.3 million.
environment and governance, and in Strategy review confirmed direction the social contribution it has made.
and identified areas of focus.
We grew our revenue by 4% to Continued investment in R&D and 11.2 billion and our sales excluding expansion of capabilities.
precious metals sales of 3.0 billion were 11% up on last year.
Underlying Group remains well positioned to operating profit increased by 13% to deliver long term growth.
468.9 million and underlying profit before tax grew by a similar amount, Neil Carson up 12% at 427.3 million.
Our underlying Chief Executive return on sales remained in line with last year at 15.7% whilst our return on invested capital increased to 20.8% from 19.8% as a result of our higher profitability and good working capital management across the group.
We saw growth in all of our main markets and our Emission Control Technologies Division ECT, in particular, had a very strong year.
The division benefited from growth in all its regions and from the introduction of new legislation to control emissions from heavy duty diesel HDD vehicles.
Johnson Matthey has a strong position in HDD catalysts.
This is a result of our commitment to invest in R&D in this area many years ahead of the introduction of the first legislation back in 2006.
We invested early and, by bringing together our talented people, focusing on R&D, committing to capex at the right time, making targeted acquisitions and building relationships with our customers, we were well positioned to supply the market with high technology solutions to meet the first legislation.
At Johnson Matthey we invest for the long term and the success of the company is founded on this conviction.
In addition, the work of our New Businesses Division today will fuel our growth into the future.
R&D is where it all begins and we increased our gross R&D spend again this year.
We have expanded our central R&D facilities, adding further capability and geographical reach.
We have a new centre in South Africa, which is focused on computational modelling, and have recently opened laboratory facilities in Singapore to support Johnson Mattheys expanding Asian businesses.
9 It is just over three years since we On a reported currency basis the New Businesses set out our ten year strategy and during outlook for the divisions is as follows: New Businesses made some progress the autumn we undertook a detailed in 2013 14 but it will take time before review.
This proved timely, given the this is translated into an operating profit Emission Control Technologies change in our contracts with Anglo for the division as a whole.
In 2014 15, ECT outperformed the underlying growth American Platinum Limited Anglo sales will benefit from the acquisition of rate in many of its markets in 2013 14.
Platinum, and allowed us to consider certain battery material manufacturing The outlook for the division remains how best to apply our broad expertise.
assets from A123, but we expect that positive as it will benefit from the tighter We concluded that our strategy the level of investment in the division truck legislation in the EU Euro VI and remained sound and agreed that going will be similar to 2013 14.
China Euro IV, as well as a recovery in forward we could embrace a wider range the European car market which appears of advanced materials and technology.
more positive than in recent years.
We Closing Remarks We also identified three key areas of focus therefore expect some further progress As you will know, I have decided to retire which will deliver top line growth for the from ECT in 2014 15. from Johnson Matthey and will step group in the longer term: collaboration: down as Chief Executive on 5th June.
customer focus: and creating value.
Process Technologies Johnson Matthey is a wonderful These areas complement our groupwide Performance in our Oil and Gas company full of talented and dedicated Manufacturing Excellence and businesses is expected to be robust, people and it has been a real privilege Sustainability 2017 programmes where driven primarily by stronger demand to have been Chief Executive for the we are working to improve profitability from our North American refinery last ten years.
During that time, the and deliver new products and technology.
The long term outlook of management team and I have continued Both programmes have made further our Chemicals businesses is also good, the transformation of Johnson Matthey progress this year, thanks to the efforts but the short term is more dependent into a world leading speciality chemicals of our employees around the world, and upon a small number of high value company.
The business is in excellent I am pleased to report that this year we projects.
Whilst we are confident that shape and I am very pleased to be have beaten our Sustainability 2017 we are well placed to win our share handing it over to such a competent ambition to double underlying earnings of new projects, the exact timing of and able team led by Robert MacLeod, per share three years ahead of our their go ahead is hard to predict.
who will make an excellent Chief target date.
Notwithstanding that, we expect that the Executive and under whom the The health, safety and wellbeing division will make progress in 2014 15, company will continue to thrive.
of our employees are always a priority.
but given the size of individual orders, As Johnson Matthey approaches its Our performance in these areas this the quarter on quarter performance may 3rd century of operation, the company year has been steady and so we feel be quite variable.
The long term drivers continues to apply its expertise in that refreshing our approach is required.
for Process Technologies remain positive.
advanced materials and technology Weve already started to address this and to innovate and improve solutions for efforts will continue during the year ahead customers in new and existing markets.
which I hope will accelerate a reduction Precious Metal Products It is committed to investing in R&D, its in our accident and incident rates.
The performance of Precious Metal manufacturing capabilities and the Johnson Matthey has a proven Products will be adversely impacted development of its people to support strategy but making sure our people by the expiry of our old Anglo Platinum the future growth of the group.
The understand it and how they are contracts.
Excluding this change, the long term drivers remain in place and contributing to it is something we feel we outlook for the division is steady.
Our Johnson Matthey is well positioned could do better at as an organisation.
Platinum Group Metal Pgm Refining to deliver growth for its shareholders Following our strategy review we have and Recycling business is currently through the creation of value adding developed a more engaging way to help benefiting from slightly higher precious sustainable technologies.
our employees connect with the strategy metal prices and volumes are stable.
and this will be introduced across the The outlook for our Manufacturing group from the end of June.
businesses is mixed, with growth in our medical business expected to offset the weaker industrial markets.
Outlook In 2014 15 continued growth across Fine Chemicals Neil Carson the group will be offset by the adverse In Fine Chemicals, we expect steady Chief Executive impact of the loss of commission growth in our Active Pharmaceutical revenue from Anglo Platinum, Ingredient API Manufacturing business, approximately 30 million compared particularly in the US, some further with 2013 14, and by the effect of progress in Catalysis and Chiral foreign currency translation which, if Technologies and modest growth in todays exchange rates prevail, could Research Chemicals as its new reduce reported underlying profit before warehouses become fully operational.
Consequently, we currently expect that the groups performance in 2014 15 will be broadly in line with 2013 14.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
