STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW RESTRUCTURED OPERATIONS Oleg Novachuk, Chief Executive The Group underwent significant change in 2014.
We announced The separation of a vertically integrated business was complex in February 2014 that we were assessing the feasibility of and involved the appointment of a new management team to separating the Zhezkazgan and Central Region assets with a view oversee the East Region assets, changes to business processes, to a potential disposal, a transaction we successfully completed in the establishment of stand-alone IT systems as well as extensive October 2014.
The transfer of the relatively mature Zhezkazgan legal and regulatory work.
Throughout this period, great and Central Region to Cuprum Holding has repositioned KAZ importance was placed on maintaining effective communication Minerals on the cost curve as we have retained a portfolio of first with key stakeholders including our employees and the and second quartile operating and development assets.
I am pleased to report that the reduction in operating mines from 16 to five, the disposal of four teams on both sides of the transaction were able to work concentrators, the captive power stations and smelting operations efficiently and diligently to complete the transaction on leaves KAZ Minerals a more cash generative and leaner business 31 October 2014, ahead of our initial expectation.
I extend with a workforce of less than 10,000, a reduction from 53,000 at my personal thanks for their response to this challenge.
Health and safety Restructuring Health and safety performance remained an absolute priority The financial implications of the separation for KAZ Minerals for management throughout the year.
Regretfully, we reported are substantial.
The producing assets we have retained in the 13 fatalities at our operations, seven of which were at assets East Region accounted for over half of the Groups EBITDA subsequently disposed of in the Restructuring.
No fatality is ever prior to the Restructuring, but less than one third of the Groups acceptable and we still require significant progress in this critical copper production.
The average copper grade mined by the area.
I will continue to work closely with our site management continuing operations in 2014 was 2.35% compared to 0.83% to deliver on our zero fatality commitment.
in the Disposal Assets, with much lower sustaining capital expenditure requirements.
com 13 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Copper cathode production guidance for the East Region and We are excited to be entering the final Bozymchak in 2015 is 80 to 85 kt.
Zinc in concentrate output will decline to 90 to 95 kt and silver output is expected to be between stages of the construction of Bozshakol 2,250 to 2,500 koz.
Gold output is anticipated to increase to and continuing the development of 42 to 47 koz in 2015, assisted by the ramp up of Bozymchak.
We are confident in the outlook Review of operations Disposal Assets for copper and expect the market to The Group owned and operated the Disposal Assets for the first 10 months of the year before completion of the Restructuring return to deficit as we ramp up output on 31 October 2014.
In the 10 months to 31 October 2014, the Disposal Assets produced 171 kt of copper cathode equivalent.
from our major growth projects.
Further details of the Disposal Assets performance until the date of disposal can be found in the Operating Review.
As the construction of Bozshakol intensifies, a particular challenge is ensuring that contractors operate in accordance with the safety Financial performance standards required by KAZ Minerals at its sites.
Unfortunately, KAZ Minerals revenues from continuing operations declined two contractor fatalities occurred at the project early in 2014. from $931 million in 2013 to $846 million in 2014, as a result of However, the project subsequently completed three million lower metals pricing and metals sales in 2014.
Copper cathode man hours, over 176 days, without a lost-time injury.
sales volumes of 78.2 kt were below production volumes of 83.5 kt due to movements in finished goods inventory.
We have a number of health and safety initiatives underway in the East Region including a comprehensive external review of The cash costs of the Group have been significantly reduced our underground mining operations.
The hiring, training and as a result of the divestment of the higher cost Disposal Assets.
operating procedures at the major growth projects have been The East Regions full year unit cash costs as reported, include the designed to ensure that a strong health and safety culture is operations prior to their separation, a period in which only directly present from the start.
We intend for the major growth projects attributable costs are accounted for.
In the second half of 2014, to be safety ambassadors within the Group and they will share the most representative period of the performance of the East best practice with East Region and Bozymchak management.
Region as a stand-alone business, gross cash costs for continuing operations were 277 USc lb and net cash costs were 107 USc lb.
Review of operations continuing operations The second half net cash cost compares favourably with the We produced 83.5 kt of copper cathode from continuing guidance of 120 to 140 USc lb for the East Region as a stand-alone operations in 2014, an increase of 9% year on year and at the business, as management were successful in mitigating inflationary upper range of our guidance of 80 to 85 kt.
Copper in concentrate pressures and due to strong zinc by-product credits.
In 2015, gross production was 4% higher compared to 2013, supported by a cash costs are expected to be between 280 and 300 USc lb for modernisation programme at the Nikolayevsky concentrator operating mines.
which has increased recovery rates.
Bozymchak, our new copper-gold project in Kyrgyzstan, made its first shipment EBITDA excluding special items from continuing operations of concentrate in December 2014. was broadly unchanged at $355 million in 2014, as lower costs offset the 9% fall in revenues.
Following the Restructuring, copper concentrate is smelted Sustaining capital expenditure for continuing operations was under a tolling arrangement with Cuprum Holding at the $53 million in 2014, slightly below the anticipated spend as some Balkhash smelter.
Balkhash remains the most attractive option investments have been carried forward into 2015.
Sustaining for the smelting of concentrate from the East Region and capital expenditure in 2015 for the East Region is expected to Bozymchak mining operations.
The Bozymchak mine is forecast to require By-product output from continuing operations declined in 2014, around $25 million of capital expenditure in 2015 and the Group with zinc, silver and gold production falling due to lower metal may invest up to $20 million to develop a new section of the grades in the East Region.
In 2015, we expect by-product output Artemyevsky mine.
in the East Region to reduce further as mining temporarily moves to lower by-product grade areas.
14 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT For more information, see pages 16 Strategy 38 Operating Review The Group has recognised a loss on disposal on completion Koksay of the Restructuring of $2.3 billion, which includes $0.7 billion In 2014, we acquired the licence for a third major growth project from the recycling of foreign exchange reserves and a net gain of at Koksay and a confirmatory drilling programme was undertaken to $207 million following the completion of the sale of Ekibastuz GRES-1.
gather more information on the ore body.
Further drilling and studies will be performed in 2015.
Capital expenditure at Koksay in 2014 Bozshakol was $4 million and in 2015 is not expected to exceed $15 million.
Bozshakol will be the first of our major growth projects to enter production.
In 2014, we completed the construction of the main Financial position concentrator building which was enclosed for internal equipment As at 31 December 2014, the Groups net debt position was installation to continue during the winter period.
The permanent $962 million, consisting of $2,130 million of gross funds and camp was completed and is now housing workers.
The primary $3,092 million of borrowings.
Undrawn debt facilities of crusher structural works have been completed and the conveyor $798 million were available as at 31 December 2014.
The steelwork has been assembled.
A rail link to the national Kazakhstan major growth projects are securely funded by our long-term network is in place and mining equipment has been delivered to debt facilities and funds on hand.
the site and is assembled for use.
Capital expenditure in 2014 was Outlook $0.5 billion, taking the total capital expenditure on the project as Looking forward, we are excited to be entering the final stages at 31 December 2014 to $1.3 billion.
of the construction of Bozshakol and continuing the development of The project is scheduled to commence commissioning in the Aktogay.
We are confident in the outlook for copper and expect fourth quarter of 2015.
Training for mining operational teams the market to return to deficit as we ramp up output from our commenced in December 2014 and will continue in 2015, with major growth projects.
pre-production mining scheduled to start in the first half of 2015.
We expect limited production from Bozshakol in the fourth Oleg Novachuk quarter with ramp up occurring in 2016.
In 2015, we will invest Chief Executive the remaining $0.9 billion of the $2.2 billion capital expenditure budget for the project.
Aktogay The Aktogay project is proceeding to plan and will be the second of our major growth projects to commence production.
In 2014, excavations and earthworks were undertaken on the site of the main sulphide concentrator building and leach pads were prepared for the oxide phase of the production.
Construction commenced on two SX EW buildings which will process the leached ore.
Non Ferrous China was appointed as the lead contractor for the construction of the sulphide processing plant and more than 25 smaller local contractors were appointed to conduct other works.
Following the award of the largest construction contract to Non Ferrous China, the capital cost of the Aktogay project was confirmed at $2.3 billion.
Capital expenditure in 2014 amounted to $0.4 billion, taking total spend on the project as at 31 December 2014 to $0.9 billion.
Capital expenditure in 2015 is expected to be $0.5 to $0.7 billion.
In 2015, pre-stripping of the oxide ore cap will continue and the first production from oxide ore is expected to commence in the fourth quarter.
Output from oxide is expected to be around 15 kt per annum.
Earthworks and construction of the oxide and sulphide processing buildings will continue in 2015.
Production from the main sulphide ore body is scheduled to commence in 2017. www.
