STRATEGIC REPORT CEOs statement This years results reflect the progress we have made in key areas across the Group We are now moving into the next stage of the Groups development This years results reflect the progress we have made in key focus areas across the Group, underpinned by the highly cash-generative nature of the business.
The vision for our Group is to passionately pursue better ways to connect people and this underpins all our activity.
In todays world, connecting people is more than just providing simple network connections: its about collaboration and value-adding interactions, whether that is direct communication between people, or interactions that occur through the vast array of applications and systems we use at home and at work.
As a business, we focus on helping our customers harness the power of those technologies that enable such connections to take place.
Bill Halbert Chief Executive K KCOM Gr COM Group PL oup PLC C 12 12 Annual r Annual report and accoun eport and accounts 2013 14 ts 2013 14 Strategic report In our consumer market, there continues to be growing demand for our As the economy begins to recover, we expect to see further opportunities fibre-based services, with the take-up rate of 27 per cent being ahead across both the public and enterprise sectors, as many organisations ofour initial expectations and above UK averages.
Over 29,000 premises begin to make IT investments to underpin their renewed ambitions.
now have access to superfast fibre broadband and we remain on target to pass 45,000 by March 2015.
The investment we are making in this Internally, we have started to invest in strengthening our Group infrastructure today, which takes fibre directly tothe premise, provides capability, introducing new ways of working and increasing our ability to us with a future-proof network capable of satisfying both current and leverage the wide range of skills and capability of our people across the any future demand for high bandwidth services.
As part of this, we are undertaking substantial investment in our core IT systems in support of some of these new ways of operating.
Alongside the deployment of fibre across our network, we are looking atopportunities to provide innovative over the top services.
Outlook Werecently launched a high definition, cloud-based CCTV service We are now moving into the next stage of the Groups development andare talking to a number of other potential partners thatprovide aswe continue to grow our capabilities and help our customers arange of business and consumer services.
The range ofservices toharness the power of communications.
available is evolving rapidly as more people gain access tofibre services.
The Group is well positioned to continue exploiting the opportunities The success that we have achieved to date with our superfast fibre that exist in its key markets.
We will continue to invest in expanding deployment has helped shape our thinking as webegin to scope the thereach of, and building customer demand for, our fibre-based next phase.
We expect tooutline our future plans when we announce broadband services and similarly in growing our share of the wider our half year results inNovember 2014. enterprise market we serve.
While, as we do so, we expect to see a continued decline in some traditional carrier revenue, we are confident Across the other areas of the Group, we continue to build our reputation of achieving successful growth in our value-added services.
in the design, delivery and management of value-added services in the wider enterprise market.
There have been a number of notable contract With the strong underlying cash flow of the Group, refinancing wins and renewals.
New customers include HM Revenue & Customs, finalisedand the positive indicators within the Group, we will consider RNLI and National Farmers Union Mutual, all of whom are taking also opportunities for investment in these focus areas going forward.
arange of services that we will manage on their behalf.
This ability toattract, and importantly, retain customers is a reflection of our I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone across the Group growing reputation in the market.
for helping make this year one of further progress on our transformation journey.
I look forward to continued achievement and success, as we There is continued growth in both Smart421 and Eclipse.
Both brands are progress our plans.
establishing strong reputations in the provision of cloud-based services.
Eclipse has launched a range of hosted services aimed at small to medium businesses who typically need a technology and communications partner tosupport them.
Bill Halbert Chief Executive There is also an increasing interest in the use of cloud technology in 18 June 2014 theenterprise market and we have successfully positioned ourselves, alongside our partner, Amazon Web Services, as a leading integrator and consultant for organisations looking to embrace cloud-based solutions.
For example, in May, we successfully migrated all the UKs rail ticketing systems on behalf of the Association of Train Operating Companies.
KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 14 13
