Chief Executives strategic review New chief executive, Haydn Mursell, talks about his strategic vision for Kier designed to create sustainable value for clients and shareholders.
I would like to thank everyone in Kier for taking on all the Q Youve been chief executive of Kier for only challenges brought by the significant changes that have a short time.
What have been your main priorities taken place in the business during this year, as a result of to date?
the May Gurney acquisition, and the drive to improve the efficiency and cost base of the Group.
After four years as Kiers finance director, I feel privileged to take over as chief executive, particularly at a time Over the next few months, my focus will be on communicating when markets appear to be recovering after a number of Vision 2020 throughout the Group.
I shall highlight the wide years of recession.
I would like to thank my predecessor, spectrum of capabilities that we can now offer to our clients, Paul Sheffield, who steered Kier during these challenging and the opportunity we have to accelerate growth in our years whilst maintaining excellent client relationships.
We are now positioned to exploit the opportunities which are available to us across all our target markets.
Q Safety is a big aspect of your operations, My key priority since taking up the post has been to where does this fit into your priorities?
meet as many of our clients as possible and learn from their Operating safely is a must.
It experience of working with us.
I have also spent time with is part of our future vision to have a zero Accident Incidence our people, listening to their feedback and looking at how Rate AIR right across Kier.
We are already achieving this we continue to make Kier a stimulating and enjoyable place across some of our operations.
We have significantly to work.
We want and need a motivated, ambitious team to reduced the rate of accidents within the May Gurney deliver our strategic goals, Vision 2020. business since we acquired it in 2013.
However, despite this improving trend, there were two fatalities during the year in our joint venture operations, one in Hong Kong and Revenue one on the Crossrail project.
Both accidents are currently subject to further investigations.
They are a stark reminder 2,985m 51% that we can always do better.
2013: 1,983m Q Can you summarise the results for 2013 14, and tell us how good a platform they provide for the next Underlying operating profit year and beyond?
Last year saw significant progress for the business: a further 88.0m 59% expansion of our regional building operation, new opportunities 2013: 55.5m in infrastructure as greater investment is made by the UK Government, expansion of our international footprint as well as the successful integration of May Gurney.
We also improved the efficiency of the business through our Combined Construction restructuring and cost control programme.
and Services order book Against this background, we delivered another good set of results in line with our expectations.
We achieved 6.2bn 47% underlying profit before tax of 73.1m and a net debt 2013: 4.3bn position of 123m even after both the acquisition of May Gurney and the continued investment in the business to drive future growth.
Revenue in our Construction division grew significantly to around 1.6bn, reflecting a market recovery and strong growth in our infrastructure and international businesses.
The Construction division also produced a 2.1% margin, which was better than the market average.
Looking ahead, we have secured more than 90% of revenues for the coming year.
Restated on adoption of the amendment to IAS 19 see note 31 page 132.
Underlying operating profits and margins, pre-tax profits and EPS are stated before exceptional items totalling 42.2m 2013: 17.0m, amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of 10.8m 2013: 3.4m and unwind of discount in respect of deferred consideration and fair value adjustments made on acquisition of 5.3m 2013: 1.3m.
Reported operating profit was 35.0m 2013: 35.1m, reported pre-tax profit was 14.8m 2013: 25.9m and reported EPS was 18.4p 2013: 62.6p.
2013 results have been restated to reflect this presentation see note 4 page 106.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Services division delivered revenues of 1.1bn at a in these areas, and our established skills, are providing robust margin of 4.8%, reflecting the stronger and more further exciting opportunities for future growth.
diverse mix of services in our portfolio and the 5m of cost Vision 2020 is an agenda for growth.
The strong operating synergies that we anticipated at the time of the May Gurney performance of all our divisions gives us confidence to make acquisition.
We continue to work at the loss-making the investments that will provide the Group with a platform environmental contracts and are making progress in our to double in size over the next five or six years.
This will discussions with those clients.
Next year looks promising require investment in back-office systems and front-of-house with more than 90% of revenues already secured following IT for the Services division, to make sure we have the best some excellent recent contract wins in the utilities sector.
Our Property division, including the residential activities However, future investment is not the only way to reflect which will be reported separately in next years report stability and growth.
We have considerable strength and accounts, delivered operating profit of 21.0m, with and depth in our existing operations, a very high level of property developments producing a return on capital of risk awareness and an excellent portfolio of businesses 15%.
This was another good performance by a division that meet a wide range of client needs in growing markets.
that has a development pipeline of more than 1.5bn.
Thats why I am positive about our future.
There are many more opportunities to exploit now as we have allocated more capital to this business.
Q How has the integration of May Gurney A highlight of the year was the growth achieved progressed and what value is it bringing to the Group?
Projects such as The acquisition of May Gurney was undoubtedly the big Crossrail and Mersey Gateway bring our skills to the story of 2013, and its successful integration into the wider fore as we play an important role in improving the UKs business was the story of 2014.
Internationally, we are increasing our development for the Group and involved challenges for our geographic footprint based on our long 50-year record integration and IT teams in particular.
I am pleased to report of operating overseas.
The positive market dynamics Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Chief Executives strategic review continued We undertake a large Q Why have you chosen now to focus on residential with the formation of Kier Living?
number of projects and Kier Living seeks to address the imbalance between house risk management is a building supply and demand.
key factor of our bidding We are giving greater focus to the residential market by bringing together three existing areas of activity specialist approval process.
contracting, affordable mixed tenure housing partnerships and private house building on our own land, enabling the Group to scale up its house building activities.
Our approach means we can grow while better managing risk, taking production from our current 1,500 units pa to around 4,000 by 2020.
As we continue to trade our existing land bank, no that we dealt with the integration well and we have new capital is required.
We will re-invest the capital released delivered on what we set out to achieve.
Progress to date as the land bank reduces into mixed tenure which is less has been encouraging, albeit we must resolve the losscapital intensive and presents much more manageable risks making environmental contracts for Bristol and Cheshire than speculative house building.
West & Chester local authorities in relation to which we have already made and announced a fair value provision.
We have worked hard to improve the performance of every Q Can you explain the Kier business model and how one of these contracts, through increased commercial it will deliver your Vision 2020 strategy?
rigour in the operations and greater engagement with the We have a broad set of capabilities and have a leading clients.
regional presence across the UK with operations in three Most importantly, the integration has given us a greater international territories.
We complement these with a breadth of skills to offer clients.
It has broadened and resilient business model which comprises a value chain strengthened the culture of client partnership in areas such of invest, build, maintain and renew, delivered through our as highways and utilities.
It has also given us a greater Property, Residential, Construction and Services divisions.
scale, making it easier for us to leverage cost savings.
Significantly, as markets ebb and flow, the breadth of our We are both bigger and better together, and we now business gives us an important hedge against the cyclical have relationships with more than 60 of the UKs 350 local nature of the markets in which we operate, with Property authorities.
This is a significant market share, but and Residential at the front, while Construction and one that still leaves plenty of room for further expansion.
Services are further back in the cycle.
The enlarged group, with its broader capabilities, is proving to be a catalyst regarding additional Vision 2020 and new requirements with existing and new clients.
Safety Profit growth For example, the Services division now has greater interaction with the Construction team and clients can now procure both small opex maintenance work as well Zero 10% as larger capex construction activities, broadening and harm CAGR deepening the Groups relationships with its clients.
The integration of our businesses is already delivering opportunities.
For example, our commercial property team Shareholder return Customers has a partnership with Northampton Borough Council, and Progressive our Services division has another with Northamptonshire 90% dividend County Council.
The Borough Council needs to update and Customer upgrade care facilities, around 3,000 units.
It is clear from discussions how much a structured, end-to-end crosssatisfaction divisional approach by Kier could help them.
We have the ability to develop a structured financial package, build Property Residential homes, and maintain and manage them too.
15% 15% Another example of the power of integration is in Surrey, where our Property division has a 28-year PFI arrangement ROCE ROCE with Woking Borough Council.
We are now building 373 houses on regenerated land belonging to the Council, 149 of which will be for private sale to subsidise the 224 built for Construction Services the Council.
We are also working with Surrey County Council on a five-year 100m asset investment programme to 2.5% 5% address the root causes of frequent and costly highways maintenance, reducing their overall maintenance budget EBITA EBITA over the longer term.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12 Strategic report Governance Financial statements We can offer a broad, end-to-end range of property and Turning to our Services division, we expect to grow ahead  services.
Our clients can maximise of the market average: we currently have a 1bn share the value they derive from their assets by working with us: by of a UK market worth around 80bn.
So while we have a negotiating finance and planning permissions, constructing strong foothold, there is scope to grow, by using our breadth major buildings and infrastructure, to providing facilities of skills to win new clients and develop relationships with management and environmental services.
We even keep existing ones.
Again, I expect to see the division grow ahead water, rail and highways running smoothly.
We are investing of the market average of 24% pa particularly in private in better technology and back-office systems to enhance the sector housing maintenance, highways maintenance, effectiveness and distinctive value of our integrated offer.
Our business model provides the basis for future Finally, in our Property division we will continue our growth in revenues, profits and cash through the delivery non speculative approach in the developments business of our Vision 2020 strategy.
We aim for double-digit while doubling its current capital limit towards 200m by compound annual growth in operating profit through to 2020.
That will enable us to target larger opportunities.
2020, becoming a world-class customer-focused company Further, by consolidating all the Companys residential and aiming to be a top three player in our chosen markets.
experience into one division, Kier Living, we have created We aim to achieve top quartile performance and efficiency a mixed tenure housing-focused building business.
Q What competitive pressures do you face, and what Such success will be reflected in the continuing are the key challenges ahead?
improvement of our total shareholder returns.
Competition for the best people will intensify as markets Q What are the risks in achieving Vision 2020?
recover, so we need to offer attractive remuneration, training and development and fulfilling career paths.
Any strategy contains a degree of stretch or ambition.
This is fundamental to achieving our goals.
We need the In striving to achieve Vision 2020, we will not reduce our right people in the right jobs to achieve our objectives.
focus on robust operational, commercial and financial discipline.
There are a number of factors which are outside We are also conscious of labour, commodity and supplier our control for example, the economic climate, budgetary inflation and its effect on profits.
However, we undertake constraints of local authorities and geo-political upheaval.
a large number of projects with risk management playing a key part in our bidding approval process.
Our focus Identifying, recruiting and developing the best available continues to be on profits, cash and risk management, people in an ever-changing labour market and a growing not just revenue.
skills gap, will also present a challenge.
The other big challenge is how to manage growth and we Q What are the main market opportunities open must ensure we have the systems and processes in place to the Group?
to manage the stresses, strains and risks associated with rapid expansion.
There are so many varied and exciting opportunities.
For example, Construction is growing faster than the market average: our Construction division generated around Q Where do you see Kier in 2020?
1.6bn in revenues in the last year.
This is a market thats When considering the future of Kier, its important that growing by up to 5% a year and will be worth more than we look at where the business is today.
We have a strong 50bn in the UK in the next four to five years.
I am balance sheet, a clear strategy, a robust business model, confident that the quality of our regional building business, enduring client relationships and, above all, the people to and our entry into sectors including industrials, defence exploit opportunities for growth in the markets where we and aviation, means that we can expect our share to grow operate.
Our emphasis on strict risk management allows us faster than the market average.
We remain a company with Our infrastructure business is also growing faster than the the customer at the heart and we have people who have market and likely to continue to benefit from investment shown they can respond to change and are ambitious for in the UKs infrastructure.
Revenues have increased from further growth.
150m to 400m in recent years and we believe it will So, within five years time, I see Kier as a company with continue to grow due to cross-party support for investment clients in the public and private sectors, both in the UK in roads, rail, power and water.
We look forward to building and internationally, having doubled in size through offering on recent successes such as the start of Phase 2 at Hinkley greater breadth of service.
At the same time we will deliver Point C and our work on Crossrail.
consistently strong margins and progressive dividend The level of international opportunity is also encouraging.
payouts and total shareholder returns.
I believe this part of our business can grow to around 10% of Group revenues by 2020, which will mean revenues growing to 500m.
There are considerable risks in achieving this objective, principally in the areas of safety, ethics and the management of risk.
We recognise that strict and disciplined operational management is key.
We may also look to extend our footprint beyond Hong Kong, the Middle East and the Caribbean into a fourth territory.
Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
