Strategic Report Governance Accounts Group Chief Executives statement Our prospects remain bright, giving us confidence to invest in the business and expand into new markets, whilst also commencing a programme to return surplus capital to shareholders.
Sir Ian Cheshire Group Chief Executive To watch a video interview with Sir Ian Cheshire go to http: annualreport.
html Although the economic environment was At Kingfisher we are also committed to evolving very quickly B&Q has set about making a positive contribution to society redoubling its efforts to achieve future difficult, Kingfisher made good progress during the year.
After an extremely difficult and the planet as we grow our business.
Following first quarter, which was affected by poor Through our Net Positive programme the strengthening of the B&Q management spring weather, the environment improved we help our customers to create more team in October 2013 under the direct as the year progressed.
The economic sustainable homes, while improving leadership of Kevin OByrne, B&Q is efficiency and opening up new sources working towards simplifying its business backdrop was generally soft across to make it more agile in the marketplace.
Europe for much of the year, particularly of revenue for our companies.
We made in France, our most significant market.
good progress this year towards many The business aims to grow sales and However, our self-help programme of our ambitious targets in timber, economic profit, for example by delivering enabled us to grow profits and improve energy use and new community an improved omnichannel experience for engagement projects.
See pages customers, an optimised store footprint our balance sheet strength, whilst also and driving footfall with better targeted investing in lower prices and improved 18 to 19 for more details.
We marketing and more competitive pricing.
Looking ahead, we will continue to drive therefore finished the year in good shape.
our Creating the Leader programme this Given the success of the last six years in We have continued to make good year.
Our key priorities will include improving our balance sheet and cash progress with our Creating the Leader starting the roll-out of our omnichannel generation, and having successfully resolved an outstanding French tax case, I strategy, which has supported short-term programmes across the Group allowing trading results whilst also building customers to shop with us in any way am delighted that we are able to announce Kingfishers longer-term future.
As well as they prefer via shops, the internet or a multi-year programme of additional emphasising our affordability credentials catalogues.
In addition we will extend capital returns.
This will be in addition to through price initiatives, we have our sourcing programmes and initiate the annual dividend and will start during 2014 15 with around 200 million.
At this continued to make home improvement a four-year Group-wide IT change easier for customers through an improved programme.
This will involve replacing level Kingfisher would have the flexibility to online offer at B&Q in the UK & Ireland our physical infrastructure and software continue reinvesting in the business, pay and upgraded websites in Turkey, China, to enable a step change in our customers a healthy dividend and capitalise on valueshopping experience.
Brico Dpt France and Spain.
As we start the new financial year, Further progress was made in sharing We are also seeking organic growth in our best ranges across more of our our selling space of 2% 71 new stores, we are well placed to benefit from a businesses, with particular progress in including two new country entries, pick-up in consumer spending as own brand paint.
In October we held our Brico Dpt into Portugal and Screwfix Europes economies return to growth.
inaugural One Team Product Show in Lille into Germany.
Our prospects remain bright, giving us confidence to invest in the business and where 10,000 of our new product ranges Importantly, we will focus our portfolio to were unveiled to 6,000 store colleagues actively manage our portfolio, including maximise our economic returns, including from around the Group.
Expansion expanding into new markets, whilst also the disposal of our stake in the Hornbach continued with more than 80 new stores commencing a programme to return business following our decision to expand opened across Kingfisher, including 60 at surplus capital to our shareholders.
into the Romanian and German markets our Screwfix business.
Screwfix had where Hornbach operates.
In China, our another excellent year, growing sales by B&Q business is now stable and so we are more than 17% on a 52 week basis and Sir Ian Cheshire now looking for a strategic partner to creating nearly 900 jobs, whilst continuing Group Chief Executive help grow the business and replicate the to develop its industry-leading online successful partner approach in Turkey.
Kingfisher continues to work more closely as a networked organisation, B&Q UK & Ireland has performed resiliently with further investment in our One Team during the economic downturn, growing Academy, which provides training profits in a declining market.
Looking modules for senior management.
ahead, with its customers and market www.
