16 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 1 Although operating profit was down on 2013 with weak, industry-wide football results in January and December a key factor, IN H2 2013 WE COMMITTED TO our results for 2014 are beginning to show the financial benefits of thisrestructuring.
Despite an exceptionally high loss of 8.1m on UNDERTAKE AND COMPLETE A MAJOR Boxing Day football we achieved our target of delivering headline 1 1 operating profit growthin H2, with H2 operating profit up 30.4%, OPERATIONAL RESTRUCTURING IN aconsiderable improvement on H1 2014 which was down 33.7% yearon year.
We are confident that Ladbrokes is competitive with clear TIME FOR THE 2014 WORLD CUP plans to improve further our business and positioned to deliver agood result in 2015.
INORDER TO ENSURE LADBROKES DELIVERING ON OUR DIGITAL POTENTIAL WAS COMPETITIVE AND COULD 2014 was a pivotal year for our Digital business during which we completed the key operational steps envisaged in the Playtech RETURN TO GROWTH IN H2 2014. agreement of May 2013.
In December 2013, we launched Mobile sports betting onto the Mobenga platform and completed the launch of Playtech Casino products followed by the transfer of all our Digital products on the Playtech IMS system by the end of April 2014.
The integration of our products, prices and data into IMS allowed our marketing and data teams in Ladbrokes Israel to begin in H2 2014 to market effectively to our Digital customers.
More importantly, it gives our customers the benefits associated with single wallet capability across all our Digital products.
In addition, we maintained our drive to offer the best betting and gaming experience on mobile devices, the key market battleground.
Our partnership with the Chelsea Apps Factory has produced a highlycompetitive offering throughout 2014, delivering a wide rangeofapplication upgrades, tournament modules and unique functions.
Customers responded positively to our improved offer withc.
80-160% growth in Mobile Sportsbook staking in every month of 2014 and 110% for the year.
Overall Sportsbook trends were also strong with staking increasing by 32% for the year.
We had a good World Cup with Sportsbook staking increasing by 30% on a comparable market basis.
Building on the success of our Mobile product in 2014, we launched new tablet based products in December and in H2 2015 we intend to launch an improved desktop product also on Mobenga.
As a result Ladbrokes will offer customers a competitive and innovative sports-betting product on a stable and standardised platform across all digital channels.
The marketing intelligence provided by Ladbrokes Israel is key to maximising the return we get from our marketing expenditure.
In the second half of 2014 following expiry of our previous on-line casino supplier arrangements and the launch of IMS, Ladbrokes Israel wasable to apply its full marketing expertise to Casino.
In Q3 we returned the Gaming business to growth, the first time for six quarters.
In Q4, trends improved further with our cross-selling rates growing by around 30% during 2014 and casino actives growing by 57%.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Overall in 2014, despite weaker margins driven by industry-wide The UK Retail team also kept cost increases to a level well below our customer friendly results, Digital net revenue increased by 22.9% initial cost guidance for 2014 and generated free cash flow before to215.1m and operating profit before exceptional items by exceptional items of 138.0m during the year.
70.7%to14.0m with strong performances in Mobile Sportsbook, Retail net revenue increased by 0.7% to 811.5m whilst operating ourAustralian operation and thereturn to growth in Gaming the profitbefore exceptional items declined by 10.9% to 119.3m.
Astrongperformance in the World Cup and growth from improved The good growth in customer numbers and Sportsbook stakes machines performances was offset primarily by the impact of already delivered in 2014 and the return to Gaming growth should wellreported customer friendly football results in January and in translate into continued Digital revenue growth during 2015.
December, and continued weaker staking trends, particularly for racing, across the year.
We stated in April that regulatory changes and our continued drive A SUSTAINABLE UK RETAIL BUSINESS tooptimise the estate would inevitably lead to shop closures and In 2014 we demonstrated, once again, that retail betting continues weclosed 89 loss or near loss making shops this year.
I am tobe an attractive entertainment proposition for customers and a pleasedtosay that we achieved these closures without making major source of cash flow to support dividends and investment compulsory redundancies, although this is becoming increasingly acrossthe Group.
In UK Retail, we enhanced our product offering and made progress The increase in Machine Games Duty from 1 March 2015 and the ingrowing our football business.
This is central to delivering better anticipated impact of the new UK regulations in 2015 means that margins in the medium-term as well as off-setting the decline in further shop closures will be inevitable.
We continue to optimise the traditional over the counter horse race and greyhound betting which performance of our estate and expect to close a further 60 shops isless relevant to younger customers.
We will again try to limit the impact of these closures We deployed more SSBTs across theestate bringing the total to 1,730. onour shop teams.
SSBTs are popular with football customers allowing them to build In 2015, we will continue our focus on improving retail performance customised coupons and bet across a range of other sports and and on targeted growth, driven in particular by football staking, wider events.
Around 80% of SSBT staking is on football, supporting deployment of SSBTs and our 2014 investment in the Clarity machine thisimportant area of growth.
SSBT staking grew throughout 2014 estate.
We also remain focused on cost efficiency across the division.
withweekly staking levels at the end of the year above the peaks we saw during the World Cup.
We also improved our coupon offer for traditional football customers and increased in-store and in-window DIVERSIFYING OUR PROFITS INTO EUROPE AND AUSTRALIA visibility of the latest football offers, pricing and results.
As a result, We continued to expand and grow our international operations in combined with a strong World Cup, OTC football staking increased regulated jurisdictions in a capital efficient manner.
Building on the strong customer thewhole Group, net revenue derived from non UK customers has response, we will deploy more than 2,000 additional SSBTsin 2015 increased to c. 14% up 1 percentage point on 2013. across the estate with at least one SSBT per shop.
We firmly established our exciting digital challenger brand in Australia In H1 we rolled out over 9,000 new Clarity gaming machines in time and further developed our European Retail businesses in 2014. forthe World Cup.
Clarity gives our customers an enhanced gaming experience in both roulette B2 and the faster growing 2 stake slots After acquiring Bookmaker Pty Ltd in 2013, we acquired Betstar Pty B3.
In parallel with this roll-out, we introduced the changes required Ltd for 12.1m AUD 21.4m in April.
Betstar was integrated in only tocomply with the ABB Code and our internal responsible gambling sixweeks and we have delivered our cost synergy targets on plan.
Customers have responded well to the new machines and Ona pro forma basis, including the relevant results of both businesses revenues grew by 6.4% in H2, ahead of our expectations.
In Q2 2015, in each period, 2014 staking increased by 25%, actives by 88% and new regulations on 50 staking are being introduced.
We are already net revenue by 151%.
Our Australian business is well positioned for preparing our shop teams to meet the new requirements whilst continued growth in 2015. continuing to deliver a good customer experience.
110% 29.4% GROWTH IN MOBILE SPORTSBOOK INCREASE IN OTC FOOTBALL STAKING 18 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 3 In Belgium we made further investment in our retail estate and Overall margins were strong at 24.3% and we generated an overall 3 established a Ladbrokes branded digital presence.
In Belgium retail, gross win of 28m for the tournament well ahead of 2010. where we remain the market leader, we introduced virtual products The 2014 World Cup showed what we can achieve by offering and SSBTs.
Belgian customers have responded well to these new customers attractive opportunities to bet alongside competitive products and retail net revenue increased by 10.3% and operating products across all channels supported by effective and efficient profit before exceptional items by 21.4% in 2014 on a constant marketing of the Ladbrokes brand.
It provided the best evidence that currency basis.
Ladbrokes was back on track.
Our Spanish joint venture, Sportium, expanded into Catalunya, CastillaLa Mancha, Rioja and Extremadura.
Spanish retail gross win SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, TAXATION AND SELF-REGULATION 2 grew by 54%.
We also pushed ahead with Sportium.
es, our digital The Betting Industry has been subject to a number of publicly sportsbetting joint venture with Cirsa, launched in December 2013. announced taxation and regulatory changes many of which will Overall, the Spanish business, united under one brand, is growing impact during 2015.
These include taxation of remote revenues, steadily, with a target of reaching break-even profit point during 2015 extension of UK licensing and regulation to remote operations, and becoming profitable thereafter.
changes to regulations around gaming machine staking above In 2015, we expect to benefit further from growth in Australia and 50and a review of the voluntary codes relating to gambling fromeven further geographical expansion in Spain.
In Belgium we will advertising.
While the industry entered 2015 with many of the continue to generate benefits from our investment in new products substantive issues surrounding it having been addressed, significant and SSBTs.
challenges remain in terms of public and stakeholder perception.
In Ireland, trading in Northern Ireland which was profitable, showed Ladbrokes has over the last couple of years played a lead role in similar top-line trends and cost performance to UK Retail.
However, drivingsocial responsibility across the industry.
We demonstrated our business in the Republic of Ireland was loss-making and did ourcommitment to social responsibility by establishing a committee notdeliver on its plan.
Overall revenue in Ireland declined as a ofthe PLC board to set targets in social responsibility and to link consequence by 10.9% and operating profit by 56.9%.
We have thesetargets to executive remuneration.
Key to this has been the tasked our International team to undertake a fundamental review appointment of a Head of Responsible Gambling who has reviewed ofour Republic of Ireland business during Q1 2015 to establish our approach and policies on responsible gambling and will ensure optionsto take this business forward.
these are applied across all our channels and evolved over time.
Ladbrokes played a leading role in establishing the first gambling 2014 WORLD CUP A COMPETITIVE LADBROKES industry responsible gambling standards body The Senet Group We set ourselves the objective of being truly competitive in time for with other leading betting operators.
The Group, which has already the2014 World Cup across all channels, with enhanced products, developed the first multi-operator responsible gambling advertising stronger marketing capability, targeted campaigns, all supported campaign, will continue to evolve in the years to come and is an byanewly launched marketing campaign The Ladbrokes Life.
important commitment by the industry to submit to independent Ourcustomers responded well.
In particular our enhanced Mobile oversight of its approach to responsible gambling.
Other sectors offer saw the strongest response in what became labelled the ofthewider industry must now endorse similar approaches.
Informing both Ladbrokes and the industrys approach has been the Mobile actives increased by nearly 700% over the 2010 tournament extensive research carried out by The Responsible Gambling Trust.
and mobile staking by over 1,100%, albeit from a small base, resulting This ground breaking work has identified that incremental, targeted in overall growth in Digital sports staking of over 40% and actives interventions are key to helping individuals exhibiting problematic increasing by 28% on a comparable market basis.
Customer data provided by our unique Odds On card has enabled Ladbrokes to develop an algorithm to In UK Retail, we outperformed the market with staking up 7.9% identify players exhibiting at risk behaviour.
We are currently testing andrecorded significant increase in slippage as customers took thealgorithm in one region and we plan to roll it out more widely advantage of a wider range of multiples and coupon offers.
beforethe end of the year.
In Spain and Belgium we generated over 100% increases in staking and good online activity.
25% 37% AUSTRALIA STAKING INCREASE GROWTH IN DIGITAL SPORTSBETTING IN2014 DURING THE WORLD CUP Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Q4 RESULTS OUTLOOK AND CURRENT TRADING 1 Operating profit for the Group in Q4 at 35.6m was flat on Q4 2013 For the period 1 January to 24 February 2015, net revenue for the 35.6m, driven largely by the poor football results on Boxing Day.
Group excluding High Rollers increased by 1.5% despite the impact Across all of our platforms we recorded a loss on Boxing Day of of losses to a small number of larger customers in the period and the c. 8.1m, Ladbrokes worst ever football daily loss on record.
adverse industry-wide football results in weeks 3 and 8.
Notwithstanding this loss, Ladbrokes showed signs of further In UK Retail we have seen similar OTC staking trends to Q4 and improved operational strength, notably in machines, Mobile continued strong machine revenue growth.
OTC gross winmargins Sportsbook, Digital Gaming and Australia, providing evidence that were slightly ahead of last year and, overall, net revenue in UK Retail is operational investment of the past 18 months is now delivering ahead.
com Sportsbook and Gaming customer financial returns.
KPIs remain good and Australia is generating strong growth both organic and from Betstar.
Trading elsewhere is in line with our In UK Retail, Q4 OTC amounts staked were down 6.8% with gross expectations.
winmargins at 15.6% down by 1.5 percentage points on Q4 2013 driven by customer friendly football and horse results.
Football In H2 2014, our financial results are now showing benefits from the stakingimproved by 1.1% as we benefitted from our focus on coupon major operational restructuring undertaken over the past 18 months.
products and our investment in SSBTs where staking per terminal In 2015, Ladbrokes faces significant headwinds from the increases increased.
Staking on traditional products declined by c. 8.5% inMachine Games Duty in March and the Point of Consumption Tax.
improving on the trends seen in Q3 benefitting from new products However, we have clear plans to improve further our business.
the imposition of material unforeseen adverse regulation and or taxation and assuming normalised sporting results, we are confident Machine revenue increased by 7.0%, gross win per shop per week in our plans for 2015 and in generating continued underlying growth.
was up 9.8% and on a per terminal per week basis was 996.
DIVIDEND Digital net revenue increased by 20.1%.
com, we As the Group implemented its operational turnaround, the Board sawanother strong quarter of growth with Sportsbook actives committed to pay dividends of 8.9p per share for 2013 and 2014, up14%, staking up 30% and Mobile staking up again over 114%, outside our historic dividend policy which is based on earnings cover thehighest rate of growth in 2014.
Weaker results at the end on the whilst remaining within our target leverage policy of net debt being in quarter however meant that the Ladbrokes.
com Sportsbook the range of 1.5 2.0 times EBITDA before exceptional items.
marginwas down 1.7 percentage points to 6.5% and, although staking and customer metrics were strong, Sportsbook net The Board currently intends to continue to pay a dividend of 8.9p per revenuedeclined by 7.0%.
share for the 2015 financial year.
com Gaming net revenue grew by 9.3% reflecting strong increases in actives with Games up 31% and Casino up 57% and Richard Glynn theimpact on revenues of losses to some higher value customers Chief Executive Officer inCasino.
Australia performed well and, with normalised results across theSpring Carnival, delivered a Q4 gross win margin of 9.6% Q42013:5.2%.
Net revenue increased by 239% with strong growthinactives and staking increased by 32.8% strongly benefittingfrom the Betstar acquisition.
2 In Belgium, staking increased in Q4 by 35.9% but, with margins impacted significantly by poor European football results net revenue 2 only increased by 8.4%.
In Ireland, trends in the Republic remain poor and with Boxing Day impacting margins, overall Irish revenue declined 2 by 18.4%.
8.9p 1 Excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
3 Including Sportium Joint Venture on a 50% basis.
20 Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report ON TRACK...
COMPETITIVE IN DIGITAL Building on operational improvements through the yearand utilising the expertise inour Ladbrokes Israel team wehave begun to see the customer respond positively to thenew Digital offer at Ladbrokes.
63% The percentage of our Digital Sportsbook business in Q4 conducted via mobile devices.
Which is why we continually undertook major upgrades and enhancedthe customer experience with improvements such as moreways to pay, simpler ways to bet, bettervisualisation and dedicated sports centres around events.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21
