Laird PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executives review Delivering good growth in line with our strategy 1 $932.0m 564.9m Total revenues Total revenues 11% 5% 2013, $839.8m 2013,537.0m $117.4m 71.2m 2 2 Operating profit Operating profit 12% 6% 2013, $105.0m 2013,67.2m 1 63.2m 3 Underlying profit before tax 5% 1 2013,60.1m 2014 was a successful year for our business, with 8% organic revenue 4 growth in US$ and total revenue growth in Sterling of 5%, reflecting currency headwinds but including the contribution from Model Solution.
We have now achieved six consecutive quarters of growth, and this consistent performance was underpinned by new customer wins and closer partnerships with existing customers over the year.
We are seeing the results of executing against our strategy, building a strong business with a clearly defined vision for capturing value for both our customers and investors.
The investment in our people, facilities and R&D allowed us to meet strong demand from a range of customers, strengthening our strategic differentiation through innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed.
Laird PLC 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our businesses performed well over the year, with Acquisitions Performance Materials growing 9% organically and In April we acquired a 51% interest in Model Solution, a benefiting from strong growth in smartphones and South Korean rapid prototyping and design company, 4G LTE infrastructure.
Model Solution has performed well since organically, with strong growth in automotive telematics.
acquisition and meets our strategy of diversifying both our geographic reach and our customer base Operating margin was 12.6% 2013,12.5%.
As expected, by supporting our expansion into the key South operating profit was heavily weighted to the second Korean market.
half of the year, with the operating leverage from higher revenues and new investments coming on stream in the We have a well-defined and disciplined approach to second half of the year.
acquisitions, choosing to develop organically, where possible, through product extension into new markets Capital Investment supporting growth and gaining mindshare with existing customers.
andgeographical expansion We continue to explore opportunities to accelerate Over the year, we expanded our production footprint entry into fast-growing market segments that build on with new factories in China, Vietnam and the United our existing skill set and contribute new technologies to States and opened a new design centre in South expand our product offering.
The Vietnam facility came on stream midway through 2014 and is already meeting customer demand.
Cultural change In Shanghai, we moved to an expanded facility to Our investment in people, cultural change and improve production efficiency, expand capacity improved skill sets under the One Laird banner has and increase R&D capability to fulfil our order book contributed to our success in winning new customers commitments.
In the United States, we moved our and has helped to increase collaboration across our Wireless Automation and Control WACS operations to businesses.
We have made several senior appointments a new and larger facility in Warren Ohio.
to improve operational execution and deliver increased differentiation across our product range.
This investment Innovation supporting increasing customer mindshare in people and training has helped us improve customer and diversification appreciation of the value we contribute in innovation We continue to invest in innovation and the and design partnership.
We thank all our employees for development of new solutions for our customers, their enthusiasm and dedication to capturing value and with 9% of revenues reinvested in our research and customer mindshare.
This significant investment enables us to be at the forefront of technological development, keep Outlook ahead of our competitors and win customer mindshare.
Over the past two years we have built a strong We increased R&D spending by 10% to $81.9m, after a foundation for delivering sustainable growth in our similar increase in 2013.
This has resulted in a number of business.
Our strategy of diversifying our customer new customer wins as well as additional new projects base has created a more robust earnings stream, and from our existing customers.
the continuing investment in developing integrated modules and systems is leading to new customer The number of customers generating over $25m of opportunities and collaboration across our businesses.
revenues increased to six over the year, while customers The customer mindshare we are developing across a generating over $1m increased to 79, achieving number of our leading customers will help us remain at one of our strategic objectives and ensuring good the technological forefront in attractive growth markets.
diversification across our customer base.
Equally, our commitment to reliable fulfilment and speed meant All these factors give us confidence in our strategy that we were able to meet strong demand from existing and our vision.
We continue to focus on delivering customers over the year.
shareholder value by executing against this strategy.
After a successful year in 2014, we have good We continue to develop our expertise in wireless momentum for further growth in 2015. connectivity, gaining new customers in automotive telematics and maintaining a leading market position in David Lockwood, OBE automotive antennae.
The increasing electronic content Chief Executive per vehicle is contributing to our strong growth in this 2 March 2015 industry segment, as the concept of the connected car expands into mid-range models and the value of our content increases.
In rail, our software control and connectivity platform Tasverii Insight for Rail secured a new customer win in European rail connectivity software, increasing our total installations to over 5,000 worldwide.
We anticipate extending this software platform to new industry sectors in the future, such as fleet asset management.
1 Translated at $1.65 which is the average exchange rate over the year impact arising from fair valuing of financial instruments and acquisition 2013, $1.56.
2 4 Operating profit is stated before exceptional items, amortisation of Organic revenue growth is defined as the increase or decrease in revenue, acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets, gain year-on-year, with the base revenue for the prior year including revenue or loss on disposal of business and acquisition transaction costs.
from current year acquisitions as if Laird had owned the acquisitions for the same period in the prior year.
3 Underlying profit before tax and earnings per share are stated before exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, goodwill and US capitalised development costs, gain loss on disposal of businesses, Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report Laird PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our markets The opportunity to protect electronics and enable connectivity exists in a wide range of markets Ubiquitous connectivity is creating Revenue by market segment an insatiable demand for information 1.
IT Telecom 27% 7 6 continuously from anywhere in the 1 2.
More things are connecting to 4 4.
Other industrial 9% the internet than people Gartner 6.
Consumer 6% 3 2 forecasts that 4.9 billion connected 7.
Medical 3% things will be in use in 2015, up 30% from 2014, and will reach 25 billion Revenue by destination by 2020.
UK 2% 2 Revenue by product segment 1.
Signal integrity 5% The need for connectivity and ever-increasing Telecoms functionality is the driving force behind connecting The emergence of high-speed wired networks, 3G, the home, automobile, outside environment and 4G, and always on broadband services has placed other networks together.
The increased exchange of tremendous demands on telecommunications information and connectivity is supported by continued technologies and services, and on the needs of build out in mobile infrastructure, such as 4G, LTE and 5G, telecommunication product manufacturers.
As base advances in sensor technology, and enhanced computing stations and switching gear are deployed in more remote power driving future growth intheelectronics industry.
regions, equipment needs to maintain the highest operating levels, performing consistently, often for over We have been leaders in radio frequency RF 10 years, coping with fluctuating power surges in hostile engineering for many years.
Higher precision and operating environments.
multifunctional precision metal and electronic components are essential to enable assembly of We are a global leader in helping major telecoms smaller devices while at the same time maintaining and companies build out their 4G networks with a range improving functionality.
Integrated circuits and packaging of innovative EMI, advanced thermal management technology must adapt to handle increased power solutions and wireless communication antenna solutions.
New materials that can both Our thermal interface materials TIMs have become the provide heating and cooling properties are increasingly industry standard for effective heat removal on base indemand, and our engineers are working with stations and providing thermoelectric assemblies to cool customers on ever more powerful prototypes.
Our proprietary Artificial Intelligence AI design tools help optimise antennas to a The exploding demand for ever more powerful devices level of performance that other providers cannot achieve.
and ubiquitous connectivity within the electronics environment creates a number of opportunities to underpin the long-term growth of our business.
Laird PLC 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Transportation IT Computing We are at the forefront of transport systems through The evolution of computing and IT equipment our wireless connectivity solutions for driverless car in recent years has led to dramatic increases in technology, rail management and asset tracking processing power, data rates, connectivity, display solutions.
With nearly 5,000 rail-related applications size and quality all of which increase the likelihood of installed worldwide, we offer the most comprehensive EMI and thermal management challenges, as well as combination of experience, product quality and creating the need for robust RF solutions to manage technical support.
We have a leading position in thermal solutions for computing, especially notebook PCs and Smartphones and consumer electronics servers, which is recognised throughout the industry.
Consumer electronics manufacturers know that future success depends on being able to constantly innovate, Industrial to design products that are thinner, lighter, more One of the most dynamic parts of the electronics powerful and reliable than ever before.
Reducing time industry, the industrial sector, comprises a wide range to market is an important competitive advantage for of solutions for an equally wide range of applications, our customers.
Expectations of seamless and constant from simple switches and motor controllers on connectivity, increased computing processing power individual machinery to the most complex wireless and form-friendly devices are becoming the norm.
solutions in challenging environments such as factory, We provide heat management and EMI shielding rail, mining, ports and materials handling.
The ability solutions to a wide range of applications that optimise to provide industrial grade connectivity in the most the performance of consumer applications.
We also challenging and hostile industrial environments makes supply wireless connectivity to allow a virtual reality us a market leader in industrial wireless solutions.
experience while optimising energy requirements.
Healthcare Medical Automotive M2M There are few more demanding or essential markets The automotive environment is a challenging one for for reliable wireless connectivity, EMI and thermal RF technology.
Yet the need for connectivity in the management than the healthcare sector, and driving support and infotainment systems continue specifically how they are applied to sophisticated to proliferate.
Modern luxury cars often have multiple and often mission-critical electronic medical devices.
antennae, each one customised to fit the form and A hospital is a complex organisation that deals with function of the specific automotive model.
As cars a great deal of data, including critical and sensitive become smarter and more connected, the demand patient data, in a very challenging RF environment.
for seamless, high quality connectivity is increasingly Over the last several years, there has been a dynamic expected by consumers.
shift in the types of medical devices found within a Our electronic design and engineering credentials hospital.
What were once nomadic computing devices, within the global automotive industry are second such as a heavy laptop or computer station, have now to none.
That is why market-leading automotive transformed into small, lightweight mobile devices.
manufacturers trust us to deliver reliable, innovative Todays portable medical devices often are used while solutions to some of the most complex EMI, thermal the user moves from one place to the next and require and wireless communications challenges.
Therefore, medical devices create an even greater challenge for hospitals Our wireless communications capabilities are when it comes to running persistent applications.
similarly world class, recognising the multiple design and specification requirements that automotive From EMI suppression to advanced temperature manufacturers and vehicle models demand.
We have control using thermoelectric modules, we are become a global leader in the design, manufacture committed to providing superior products upon and delivery of automotive antennas, with state-ofwhichmedical suppliers can depend, including the the-art designs including satellite radio, GPS, cellular, very latest wireless communications technologies.
AM FM, on-glass, amplifiers, Bluetooth, DAB and Military many more.
We also provide fully hosted networked application software that enables customers to Defence applications demand superior performance monitor their remote controlled assets in real-time.
under the most demanding conditions.
We have built a reputation for quality, reliability and performance that is second to none.
We are the preferred supplier for EMI shielding and custom absorbers for a wide range of defence applications.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report
