We have now put the top team in place for the challenges and plans ahead.
I expect a step change, given the focus on operational delivery created by the reconfigured structure and team.
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Johan Viljoen, who brings industry-leading expertise and experience to his position as COO.
We also welcome back Ben Moolman, a Lonmin and Platinum stalwart, he will run the Business Support Office BSO we established this year.
The BSO is the conscience of the business ensuring we get value from every Dollar, and every ounce and also deliver on our social commitments.
We saw three senior colleagues leave us this year.
Albert Jamieson, Natascha Viljoen and Mark Munroe and furthermore Barnard Mokwena will be leaving us at the end of December.
They have all given great service to this Company.
They leave with our high praises.
I know you will join me in wishing them all the best for their future, and in welcoming our new colleagues, who form part of an Exco which is driving Lonmin to the next level.
We will, first and foremost, mine for value, not just for volume.
Safe and profitable ounces all the time.
Growth matters, but cash generation matters more in the near-term.
We will continue to rebuild our relationships with our employees and develop our relationship with all the unions that represent our employees, building on the Relationship Charter we agreed in early August this year.
We will also use the advantages our new senior management structure gives us to empower our skilled and experienced middle management tier.
Where we have done this already, at Saffy and Hossy, we see encouraging traction on the ground which all contribute to creating a sustainable Lonmin.
The new year is also vital for our BEE responsibilities.
We concluded a historic deal with the Bapo community in 2014, and we must maintain this momentum as we approach various deadlines.
This must be under-pinned by a relentless focus on exceptional execution which can only be achieved through relationship building with our unions, our communities and our stakeholders to help create a more predictable and stable operating environment for the future.
Lonmin was one of the first mining companies to conclude a BEE transaction, transferring 18% of the operations to HDSAs in 2004.
Lonmin was subsequently unable to finalise the last 8% and, even though this has been a challenging in this deadline year, I am confident that the transactions will be completed within the required timeframe.
For 2015 we expect platinum metal in concentrate MIC production in the region of 750,000 ounces and, after re-stocking the pipeline, sales are guided to be around 730,000 Platinum ounces.
We expect to maintain sales of around 750,000 platinum ounces thereafter with the flexibility to increase or reduce sales dependent on market outlook.
As a result of the continued suppressed market conditions and capital discipline, capital spend on growth ounces has been deferred and capital expenditure for 2015 reduced from previous guidance of around $400 million to $250 million depending on the Rand US Dollar exchange rate.
This will be predominantly focused on Rowland, the K3 incline and Saffy as well as on the bulk tailings project.
We will also spend capital on K4 shaft as we begin to prepare this shaft for its eventual restart in 2017, subject to favourable market conditions.
Taking into account cost savings, productivity initiatives, increased production profile for 2015 and the increase in wages, we anticipate the unit cost of production to be around R10,800 per PGM ounce.
For the medium term, we expect to maintain sales of around 750,000 platinum ounces.
This will be supported by capital expenditure of between $250 million and $350 million per annum.
We will continue to manage a balance between capital investment and maintaining a sound balance sheet.
Consequently, capital spend in any year will be subject to prevailing market conditions.
Despite the significant inflationary pressures we face, we would expect to contain increases in unit costs to below wage inflation.
Every employee matters greatly to me Lonmin is not shafts and machines, it is people.
Thats why safety is our first priority and everything I have mentioned above must be seen in this context.
We improved again this year, we achieved an industry record of one year fatality free, also a first in Lonmins history.
However, we remain vigilant and the sad loss of our colleague Siyabonga Sibango in an accident at East 3 shaft in October on 26 October last year reminds us that safety is a never ending journey.
I am grateful to our banking syndicate, our core advisors and customers for their continued support but my greatest thanks, as always, go to our employees.
I am also appreciative of Brian and his Board for their support and guidance in such a challenging year.
I appreciate the continued shareholder commitment and I remain conscious of the need to pay dividends to shareholders at the earliest appropriate time.
I look forward to a stable predictable operating environment in 2015.
Yours faithfully Ben Magara Chief Executive Officer 01 Strategic Report 0 02 2 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 0 03 3 F Fiin na an nc ciia all S St ta at te em me en nt ts s 0 04 4 A A D fide ee ep pe er r L Lo oo ok k 0 05 5 S Sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er r iin nffo or rm ma at tiio on n Lonmin Plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Chief Executive Officers Letter WE ARE NOW IMPLEMENTING A CLEAR ROBUST STRATEGY TO CREATE A STABLE AND PREDICTABLE OPERATING ENVIRONMENT THAT WILL ENSURE LONMIN IS SUSTAINABLE THROUGH ALL CYCLES AND MINIMISES BUSINESS DISRUPTIONS.
