Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 8 Chief Executives overview A year of progress quality and style.
We have upgraded our We have built store environments, launched our new website and accelerated our international a business expansion.
We have also built the foundations of a robust infrastructure that is more through new IT systems and logistics developments as we start to reshape relevant and t our distribution network to a single-tier network.
for the future General Merchandise During the year, we faced a dif cult of retail.
trading environment, with a highly promotional market and, at times, unseasonal conditions.
However, the team we appointed last year to turn around our clothing performance is I am pleased to say that this year we Marc Bolland making progress.
I am particularly have taken several signi cant steps Chief Executive pleased that our core Womenswear forward, and I have always described ranges have started to gain momentum.
M&Ss transformation as a step-by-step General Merchandise Customers tell us that they like the process.
As we come to the end of our improvements to the quality, style and three-year transformation programme, 4.1bn newness of our clothing ranges.
Our much of our investment is starting to level Indigo, Autograph and Limited ranges bear fruit and we have built a business performed well over the year.
Turn to page 20 that is more relevant for the future retail marketplace.
Food Food Sales over the last year rose by 2.7% Our Food business continues its strong and our clothing business is beginning performance, now with 18 consecutive 5.1bn to show clear signs of improvement.
2013 14 4.2% Our priorities for the year ahead are to was another very strong year, ahead of continue to turn around our General plan and ahead of the market.
Sales rose Turn to page 22 Merchandise GM performance, to drive 4.2% as customers continued to enjoy M&S.
com our Food business and to maximise the the quality and newness of our products.
many opportunities around our new Our unique position as an own-brand, M&S.
com agship and in our 800.1m specialist food retailer with a sizeable international markets.
22.8% high street presence means that we Performance overview can reach millions of customers a week Turn to page 26 Our performance this year was mixed.
with at least 5,000 products out of our International Our Food division had an excellent year, range of 6,400.
We continue to lead on outperforming the market, and our speciality, quality and innovation.
But International division also saw strong being a specialist does not mean being 1.2bn growth.
We saw online sales rise 22.8% expensive.
Customers tell us that they get 6.2% over the year and launched our new good value when they shop at M&S.
com that we saw positive sales growth in We are becoming a more multi-channel clothing in the last quarter.
But despite and agile business.
com this welcome improvement, our GM agship opened in February after over two division is still not satisfactory and growth years of extensive customer research and in our clothing business needs to be testing.
Where previously we operated sustained.
There remains much to do in on an Amazon platform, we now have a GM but I am con dent that we are on the powerful and exible platform of our own, right track.
allowing continuous improvement and Transforming our business supported by the right skills and culture The last three years have been a internally to drive continual innovation.
The period of unprecedented change and site is backed by our new 900,000 sq ft investment in M&S.
Over the period we distribution centre in Castle Donington.
have become more customer-driven, Our online sales continued to grow repositioning our Food business to as more customers shopped via their become more specialist and relaunching computer, tablet or mobile phone.
our clothing ranges with the focus on Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic report Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 9 Stores Our plan for the future The roll-out of our new store formats continued apace this year.
Our top Drive UK International Drive 70 stores already have refreshed like-for-like multi-channel retailer international Womenswear departments, and we growth presence are introducing revamped Footwear, Menswear and Beauty departments.
A key feature of the new stores is their use UK space and A leading UK International of technology, from large touchscreens to like-for-like multi-channel retailer company our very popular Shop Your Way service.
growth International Our International strategy continues to Brand deliver strong results, with our priority Clothing markets delivering double-digit growth.
Home Focus on UK This year we opened 55 new stores Food overseas, including agship stores in Stores India, the Middle East, France and the Netherlands.
We see continued future opportunities for new stores, online and Building on our progress There remain signi cant growth new formats in our international markets.
We have come to the end of our threeopportunities overseas, where we see In line with our bricks and clicks year programme to modernise M&S.
the potential for 250 new stores in the strategy, and to complement our existing It has been a period of profound and next three years.
Expansion will continue agship stores and local website, we transformational change in the business.
in our priority markets and we will announced a partnership with Relay We must now build on the foundations increase our franchise operations, as France to open franchise Food stores in that we have laid.
we believe that this is a low-capital but key travel locations in Paris, a model that high-impact way of expanding.
Where General Merchandise we will replicate in other markets.
possible, we will also expand our Food In clothing, we will continue to drive offer overseas, particularly in Western Brand the improvements in our ranges, with Europe.
Through our marketing activity, this year a focus on quality and style.
com, we now have a exible and we aimed to re-establish M&Ss quality and ahead, we will increase levels of modern web infrastructure that is t for heritage credentials.
Our bold, Leading newness and availability down the chain, the future.
com Ladies, campaigns showcased our while making sure that our ranges are will be at least as pro table as our store Womenswear lines and featured a diverse appropriate to our customers needs.
We now have the right skills cast of British women of achievement.
We believe that we can improve GM and culture in place to drive continual The ads achieved high levels of brand margins.
Changes to our sourcing innovation in our online activities.
Our Christmas campaign, operations will see us signi cantly which revived our famous, Magic & increase the amount of direct sourcing Finance Sparkle strapline, combined clothing that we do, particularly in Asia.
We Now that our period of signi cant and food for the first time and achieved will also increase the amount of fabric investment is over, our capex will fall over exceptionally high recognition levels.
we obtain through our Open-to-Buy the coming years.
We will continue to initiative.
manage the company prudently and will Plan A look to reduce costs where we can.
The principles of Plan A underpin Some of our ranges still need to be everything that we do.
We are working to address We are working to deliver a progressive such as Shwopping, our clothes recycling this.
We must also do more to make improvement in margin over the scheme, and the Big Beach Clean-up, our core 55-year-old customers feel at coming years and we are committed to customers and colleagues participated home when they shop with us, while still improving our free cash ow position.
in a wide range of Plan A activities this appealing to customers of all ages.
Increasing numbers of our suppliers We have exciting years ahead of us: our are also now involved in making our Food, International and M&S.
com transformation is largely complete, we sustainability goals a reality.
We have We will continue to grow our Food are t for the future and focused worked hard to make Plan A an integral business by opening 150 new UK on delivery.
part of our business and our brand.
M&S Simply Food stores over the next three years.
We will keep investing in innovation, quality and newness to ensure that as a specialist we offer our customers exciting, great value products.
Through supply chain ef ciencies, we will work to improve our margins.
Marc Bolland Chief Executive 20102013 By 2013 By 2015
