Chief Executives Statement SOLID PROGRESS CONTINUED DIVIDEND GROWTH Underlying operating profit was 156.1 million 2013: 168.2 million including These results demonstrate that our strategy is delivering the impact of disposals referred to above and the non-recurrence of the 53rd value, achieved through investment in new-builds trading week.
Allowing for these, underlying operating profit increased in each of our core business segments.
generating superior returns, the development of franchise-style pubs and, planned disposals.
Underlying profit before tax was 83.0 million 2013: 86.1 million with lower interest charges from debt repayments partially offsetting the impact of The transformation of our pub estate is well underway and on plan and we are disposals.
Basic underlying earnings per share for the period were 11.7 pence pleased to report solid progress including growth in our retained pub per share 2013: 12.0 pence per share.
Net debt at the period end was 1,198 million.
Net debt includes 1,043 million In looking at the performance for the Group as a whole, our year-on-year of long-term structured finance with a stable repayment profile and no comparisons reflect significant disposal activity, in particular the portfolio exposure to increases in interest rates.
Excluding property leases with freehold disposal of 202 pubs in November 2013 which generated annual revenue of reversion entitlement, the ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA was 5.4 times 29.6 million and operating profit of 10.8 million and the fact that 2013 at the period end.
Net debt to EBITDA is expected to reduce over time as this included a 53rd trading week.
long-term debt amortises, and it remains our intention to target a ratio of around 5 times in the medium term.
We have significant flexibility in our Our plans to invest in pub-restaurants nationally and sell smaller wet-led pubs are financing options, including the selective use of sale and leaseback where on track.
We met our targets for the 2014 financial year, opening 27 new-build appropriate, without compromising our preference for an estate of which pub-restaurants including our 100th new-build pub in Dumfries, Scotland.
continue to see good opportunities for future investment at attractive returns.
Cash return on cash capital employed remains strong at 10.5%.
This is slightly We also sold 388 smaller wet-led pubs and other assets, realising proceeds of behind last year reflecting the short-term effect of the portfolio disposal in 144 million for reinvestment.
As at the year end, the Groups estate comprised November 2013.
We remain focused on improving returns and are confident 1,689 pubs against 2,050 in 2013. that the implementation of our strategy will increase returns over time.
The continuing successful implementation of our strategy is demonstrated by our The proposed final dividend of 4.3 pence per share provides a total dividend financial performance: we are seeing good growth in our Destination and for the year of 6.7 pence per share, and represents a 5% increase on 2013.
Premium estate, increased exposure to the dining market and, growth in our Dividend cover was 1.7 times 2013: 1.9 times reflecting the portfolio disposal.
retained Taverns and Leased estates reflected in a 19% increase in average profit Our dividend policy remains to target consistent progressive increases in per pub over the last two years.
dividend at a cover of around 2 times over the medium term.
Additionally, around 75% of profits from our pubs are now generated by Current trading managed or franchise-style pubs in which we have direct control over the retail The year has started well, with like-for-like sales growth in Destination and offer.
This will continue to increase as we implement our strategy, ensuring that Premium pubs of 2.1% for the 7 weeks to 22 November including food sales we are better able to deliver consistency of service and standards, and to offer growth of 2.1% and drinks sales growth of 2.0%.
Operating margins are up on outstanding value to our customers in more pubs.
In Taverns, like-for-like sales have grown by 2.0% and in Leased, profits are up on last year.
In Brewing, trading is ahead of last year with another Our performance in pubs was underpinned by an excellent year in Brewing, strong Halloween performance by Hobgoblin.
where our focus on premium and regional beers reflects strong consumer interest in this segment of the market.
In spite of our disposal activity and a 53rd trading week in 2013, total underlying revenue increased by 0.6% compared to 2013 reflecting the contribution from new pub-restaurants, solid like-for-like sales growth in our Ralph Findlay pubs and growth in Brewing.
Operating margin was 1.7% below last year as a Chief Executive Officer consequence of the conversion of formerly tenanted pubs to franchise-style agreements, which generate higher profits but at a lower percentage operating margin.
Marston's PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
