CHAIRMANS STATEMENT During 2015, we continued to make significant progress in enhancing the overall efficiency of our operations.
Although we experienced some challenges, Acacia remains on trackto deliver long-term value.
To demonstrate our commitment to providing returns to shareholders and our confidence in the ability of the business to generate cash flow, the Board has recommended a final dividend of US2.8 cents per share.
Board composition 2015 was a year of stability for the Board as we embedded the talent added over the past two years.
As part of this process, we undertook an extensive review ofBoard activities.
We also undertook our  Board performance evaluation.
This confirmed that the Board, andits respective Committees, Kelvin Dushnisky had operated effectively throughout the Chairman of the Board reporting period and has helped to shape our focus areas for 2016.
Dear shareholders, Our ongoing turnaround has taken place All Directors will stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM, save for Graham Clow who has 2015 was another year of transformation against a negative market backdrop decided not to stand in order to concentrate on for Acacia as we progressed the for the broader mining industry.
We would like to thank Graham mechanisation of Bulyanhulu and economic slowdown in China impacted for his many contributions to the Company commenced underground operations demand for the majority of industrial and wish him well for the future.
We delivered increased metals and commodities, leading to Final dividend production for the third consecutive a significant fall in physical prices which In 2014, we amended our dividend policy year, albeit at marginally lower levels has been reflected in equity valuations.
toensure that it is more closely aligned with compared to original expectations.
The gold price was by no means the cash generation potential of the business.
With our continued investment into immune from the broader mining sector Assuch, it is now based on operational cash the turnaround of Bulyanhulu, costs malaise, and reached a six-year low flow after sustaining capital and capitalised development but before expansion capital and remained flat year on year, which of US$1,049 per ounce in December.
financing costs, rather than on net earnings.
together with the average realised Having performed very strongly towards gold price being over US$100 per the end of 2014, Acacias share price As a result of the net cash decrease for ounce lower year on year, impacted fell by 29.5% over 2015, reflecting the the year, strictly following our dividend policy on free cash generation.
lower gold price and the operational would implyno final dividend be recommended for the year.
However, to demonstrate our challenges experienced during the year.
commitment to providing returns to shareholders, the strength of our balance sheet and to In light of the poor market conditions, signal our confidence inthe ability of our both the Board of Directors and the business to generate cash flow, the Board has Executive Leadership Team have recommended a final dividend of US2.8 cents unanimously volunteered to take per share.
Subject to shareholder approval of this recommendation at the AGM on a 10% reduction in pay in 2016.
21 April 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders onthe register as of 6 May 2016.
The ex-dividend date is 5 May 2016.
Together with our interim dividend of US1.4 cents per share, this represents a full year dividend of US4.2 cents per share.
8 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Relevant pages p48 Governance overview Outlook Whilst we encountered challenges in the EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE year, the team continued to make significant Our Directors have considerable knowledge and experience improvements to the business as we moved of the mining industry and bring other relevant experience through 2015.
The hard work and commitment to the Board to assist Acacia in achieving its strategic goals.
of the management team and those at the operations led to increased production from 2014 levels, and has orientated the business to deliver positive cash flows in 2016 at levels well below the current gold price.
Looking forward to 2016, we plan to consolidate Kelvin Dushnisky Brad Gordon Peter Tomsett Andre Falzon Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Independent the significant changes that the team has Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director made over the past two years to provide a platform for operational stability going forward.
We will continue to identify and implement further potential efficiencies within the Company, and our focus this year will be on improving productivity as we have now largely completed the re-engineering of our operations Ambassador Michael Kenyon Graham Clow Rachel English Juma V. Mwapachu Independent Independent Independent and the rightsizing of our workforce.
Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director On behalf of the Board, I sincerely thank all Acacia employees for their hard work and dedication over the past year.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their continued support and commitment to the Company.
Steve Lucas Stephen Galbraith Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Board skills Board independence Board diversity Kelvin Dushnisky 1 2 2 Chairman of the Board 3 2 7 4 9 Geology Non-independent Female Engineering Independent Male Financial African and regional affairs ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 9
