54 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE A LETTER FROM OUR CHAIRMAN Introduction Board and People PRIORITIES 2015 has been a challenging year As a result of the difficult environment OUR THREE for Aggreko with the impact of low and our focus on efficiency, PRIORITIES ARE commodity prices, in particular oil, approximately 700 employees have DESIGNED TO together with slower economic growth left the Group.
This was unfortunate DELIVER GROWTH in many emerging markets resulting in a but inevitable, given the impact of AT ATTRACTIVE MARGINS disappointing financial performance for the external macro factors and the Read more the Group.
Page 4 I am pleased that our new CEO, Chris During the year, three Executive Weston, has settled in well and despite Directors left the business: the macro headwinds, has quickly Debajit Das, Regional Director learnt the business and decisively Asia Pacic and Australia left in launched a new set of business October 2015: priorities for Aggreko.
David Taylor-Smith, Regional Director The strategy review was an extremely EMEA left in August 2015: and comprehensive exercise led by T his year Chris and the Executive team, Asterios Satrazemis, President has been about re-organisation supplemented by external resources.
Americas left in December 2015. and creating a strong platform for The Non-executive Directors were also sustainable profitable growth.
Also during the year, Rebecca heavily involved in the process and McDonald stepped down as a the new priorities were launched in Non-executive Director after serving August 2015. athree-year term.
As a consequence of our new priorities, I would like to thank all four exwe reorganised the Group from colleagues for their service and three regions Americas, EMEA and contribution to Aggreko and to wish Asia Pacic and Australia into two them well.
Ken Hanna business units, Rental Solutions and Power Solutions.
Rental Solutions, Chairman Bruce Pool, who has been with representing approximately 40% of Aggreko in a number of roles over Group revenues, is a transactional 17 years, was appointed President business operating in developed Rental Solutions in December markets providing power to customers 2015 and Nicolas Fournier, who who need it quickly and typically for a brings over 25 years of international short period of time.
Power Solutions, experience including many years with representing approximately 60% of the Lafarge Group, was appointed Group revenues, is predominantly Managing Director Power Solutions a projects business operating in inNovember 2015. emerging markets providing power Following the reorganisation of the to customers with larger and more Group into two business units, we complex requirements, typically for considered what implications this longer periods.
should have for the structure and The strategic direction of the Group composition of the Board.
will not change dramatically: we will After careful consideration, the Board still be focused on providing modular, decided that it was not necessary for mobile power and related solutions the heads of the two new business anywhere in the world.
However, units to be members of the Board.
we have recognised that Aggreko We do however believe that it is needed to evolve in order to maintain important for the Board to interact with our clear, market-leading position and the heads of the Rental Solutions and the increased focus on three priorities Power Solutions businesses and they of our customers, our technology will regularly attend Board meetings.
and our efficiency are designed to deliver growth at attractive margins and returns.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 55 OUR PEOPLE IN A SERVICE BUSINESS SUCH AS AGGREKO, IT IS THE ATTITUDE, SKILL AND MOTIVATION OF OUR STAFF WHICH MAKESTHE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MEDIOCRE AND EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE.
Read more about our people Page 19 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance: it is the way we do business and it is at the core of everything we do.
Summarised below and explained in detail throughout this report we have described the key elements which we believe are essential for good corporate governance.
We follow the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, as published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and are pleased to report that Aggreko has complied in full with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year.
Leadership Your Board rigorously challenge strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability to ensure that every decision we make is of the highest quality.
Read more about our leadership on In February 2016 we were delighted Dividend Page 59 to appoint Dame Nicola Brewer as The Board is pleased to recommend a Non-executive Director.
Nicola is a final dividend for the year ended currently Vice Provost of University 31 December 2015 of 17.74 pence Effectiveness College London and has previous 2014: 17.74 pence.
When added to Your Board continuously evaluates the balance of skills, extensive geopolitical and diplomatic the interim dividend of 9.38 pence this experience, knowledge and independence of the Directors.
experience in a number of roles in results in a full year dividend of 27.12 We ensure that all new Directors receive a tailored induction the UK Foreign and Commonwealth pence 2014: 27.12 pence.
programme and we scrutinise our performance in an annual Ofce.
She has worked all over the effectiveness review.
world and her experience in Africa, Looking ahead South America, Middle East and India Read more about our effectiveness on The market for our products and will be of great benefit to Aggreko.
Page 64 services remains large and the global Nicola will also join the Ethics and power gap is forecast to increase.
However, there is no doubt that Accountability significant external factors are currently Board evaluation impacting our customers ability to All of our decisions are discussed within the context of This year, we conducted an external invest in our solution.
We are however the risks involved.
Effective risk management is central to Board evaluation and whilst the fully committed to our business achieving our strategic objectives.
review concluded that the Board was priorities and will continue to invest in Read more about our accountability on performing effectively there were three our people to be in a position to take Page 66 areas that were identied for increased advantage of market opportunities.
More time Finally, I would like to thank our will be allocated in the Board agenda employees for all of their hard work Relations with Shareholders for a more comprehensive review of our during 2015. competitors and the market landscape, Maintaining strong relationships with our Shareholders, succession planning and talent bothprivate and institutional, is crucial to achieving our management and a deeper discussion aims.
We hold events throughout the year to maintain on risk and control.
anopen dialogue with our investors.
Read more about Shareholders relations on Page 68 Remuneration Having a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors is crucial.
Our remuneration policy aims to attract, retain and motivate by linking reward to performance.
Read more about our remuneration on Page 78
