OUR RESULTS REFLECT THE BENEFITS OF A CLEAR STRATEGY, EXCELLENT EXECUTION, DIFFERENTIATED BRANDS AND A COMMITTED AND TALENTED MANAGEMENT TEAM.
JOHN R. NICOLSON, CHAIRMAN A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08 Chairmans Statement John R. Nicolson DIVIDEND PROSPECTS In my first statement as Chairman The Board is pleased to recommend a final Whilst we continue to operate in a challenging I am pleased to report a further year of excellent business performance, with dividend of 9.01p per share to give a total environment, I am confident that we have double digit, before tax, profit growth and dividend for the year of 12.12p per share, a the strategy and the executional ability to sales revenue growth well ahead of the full year increase of 10.0% on the prior year.
continue to deliver long-term sustainable total soft drinks market performance.
shareholder value and I look forward to These results reflect the benefits of BOARD reporting on our Companys progress to our a clear strategy, excellent execution, Ronnie Hanna stepped down on 31 December shareholders and wider stakeholder group.
differentiated brands and a committed 2014 after serving 11 years on the Board, and talented management team.
with over 5 years as Chairman.
I would like to take this opportunity to record our Over the course of the last 12 months, sincere thanks to Ronnie for his stewardship the business has continued to make of the Board over this period of significant significant progress.
As you can see from progress and success.
the financial highlights the business has had John R. Nicolson a strong year, driving growth through its well I am pleased to confirm that David Ritchie, Chairman supported brands, improving margins and CEO of Bovis Homes Group PLC, will join building assets, while improving systems the Board from April 2015.
David is an and processes to ensure long-term success.
experienced and successful CEO who will In addition, we have developed our portfolio bring a new and valuable perspective to our into areas where we believe there is real already strong Board.
We will continue to long-term strategic value, such as our move strengthen our Board over the course of the into the cocktail mixer sector with the recent next 12 months and expect to bring further acquisition of Funkin Limited and our newly capability, competence and experience to forged Snapple brand partnership with our Boardroom.
In addition, I would like to recognise the There continues to be a considerable commitment and contribution from all our amount of change and improvement employees, and thank them on behalf of across the business as we strive to stay the Board for delivering such a strong set ahead in what has been, and continues of financial results.
to be, a fiercely competitive marketplace.
