Chairmans statement X Roy Franklin, currently Chairman of Keller Group plc, deputy John Connolly chairman of Statoil ASA and a non-executive director of Chairman Santos Ltd, was appointed an independent non-executive director and member of the nominations committee, with effect from 1 January 2016 X As reported above, Samir Brikho stepped down from his position as Chief Executive on 17 January 2016.
Ian McHoul was appointed interim CEO, in addition to his role as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 17 January 2016 Full biographical details of your board can be seen on pages 41 to 43.
The last year has been one of significant challenge and change Diversity remains another key area of focus for your board and in your company.
your company has made great strides in this area not just the Having completed the acquisition of Foster Wheeler at the diversity of human capital individual characteristics, skills and end of 2014, the group tackled the task of integrating the gender but also, as I have mentioned previously, in thought two companies to create the new Amec Foster Wheeler.
Collaboration, teamwork and respect for each other, This took place during a year when the significant oil price combined with an assiduous attention to health, safety, security decline and consequent actions across the oil & gas sector and the environment will ensure that we remain at the top of our produced extremely turbulent and challenging markets for game, despite competitive pressures and market conditions.
Whilst we will continue for some time to operate And here again we see further benefits from the merged in these harsh markets, your board remains confident that the operating practices following our acquisition of Foster Wheeler strategic rationale for the Amec Foster Wheeler combination where we have created a best of both approach.
I also want to comment on health and safety, which remains an As we announced, Samir Brikho stepped down from the Chief absolute priority throughout the organisation.
The Chief Executive Executive role on 17 January and left the company, with Ian reports to the board on this at every meeting and our Health, McHoul appointed interim CEO from that date.
Samir was Chief Safety, Security, Environmental & Ethics Committee see page 63 has an increasingly key role to ensure we protect our people, Executive for nine years and made a significant contribution our customers and everyone associated with our projects.
to the development of the group during that period and, on Your company will benefit from our best-in-class approach, behalf of the board, I want to thank him for his commitment and which is clearly understood and upheld throughout the group.
I also want to thank Ian McHoul for stepping into this role to steer the company forward in the Your Companys performance period ahead.
The board has progressed the search for a new The tough market conditions will continue for longer than CEO, supported by Korn Ferry, and we anticipate making an originally expected and these have been reflected in the announcement on this in due course.
performances of your company across our four markets oil & gas, mining & metals, clean energy and environment & In the Chief Executives statement on page 7, Ian McHoul infrastructure more details can be seen on pages 24 to 25. reports on progress and our near term priorities.
As already 1 Our 2015 trading profit was 374m and our proposed final announced your board concluded that an appropriate dividend is 14.2p per share, making a total of 29.0p per share action in these markets is to lower the dividend see below.
If approved at your Companys annual general A priority was to execute a refinancing and in March 2016 we meeting on 27 April 2016, it will be paid on 4 July 2016 to those announced that the new financing for the companys medium shareholders on the register at close of business on 27 May 2016. term was in place, with total facilities of 1.7 billion, which gives us substantial headroom and marks another important Conclusion step towards further strengthening our balance sheet.
The My fellow directors and I remain strongly convinced of Amec executive team continue to execute a clear strategic plan to Foster Wheelers potential.
We believe that your companys optimise the groups performance during these challenging strategy, strength & depth of customer relationships and market conditions.
breadth of skills & capabilities will enable us to optimise our performance in these down markets and position your company Your board to take advantage of better markets when they return.
There have been a number changes to your board since the Difficult times call for strong leadership and I would like to thank start of 2015: our leadership team and everyone in Amec Foster Wheeler for X Kent Masters, formerly the Chief Executive Officer at Foster their valued contribution to date and their commitment to Wheeler AG, was appointed a non-executive director on delivering our future potential.
13 February 2015 for an initial term of three years, which will end at the 2018 AGM X Neil Carson was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of our Remuneration Committee on 14 May 2015 following the previously-announced retirement from the John Connolly Chairman board of Simon Thompson at the close of the annual general meeting, having served two three-year terms as a Director 10 March 2016 1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174 Amec Foster Wheeler 06 Annual report and accounts 2015
