STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUR BOLD STEPS TO TRANSFORM OUR FUTURE DISPOSAL AND CLOSURE OF ASSETS Sir John Parker During 2015, disposal transactions completed or announced amounted to $2.1 billion, and our disposals programme has subsequently been increased to a cumulative total of $5-6 billion by the end of 2016.
Discussions are currently under way with potential buyers of our Niobium and Phosphates businesses and our Barro Alto and Codemin nickel operations in Brazil: as well as our Moranbah and Grosvenor coal mines in Australia, In 2015, the world economy continued to struggle, amongst others.
Appropriate decisions about such disposals with most emerging economies slowing sharply.
will be made over time, based on value and other factors.
In light of the commodity price environment, the Company Russia and Brazil fell into deep recessions.
has ceased or is ceasing production at a number of Chinas continuing slowdown, and the associated operations.
Operations that have been placed onto long term care and maintenance include Peace River Coal renminbi weakness, triggered severe turbulence and Snap Lake diamonds in Canada, while Thabazimbi in financial markets and depressed demand for iron ore in South Africa has reached the end of its life and is being closed.
Plans have been initiated to place industrial materials.
This had a major impact on Twickenham platinum in South Africa onto care and maintenance, while the Damtshaa diamonds operation at the prices of our mined products and mining the Orapa complex in Botswana was placed onto temporary equities, which continued their steep fall, care and maintenance from 1 January 2016. accelerating towards the end of the year.
STABILISING THE BALANCE SHEET We have seen the positive effects of productivity RESULTS improvements in our operations throughout the year.
Anglo Americans own basket of commodity prices, which These, combined with significant cost reductions, coupled declined by 9% in 2014, decreased by a further 24% in 2015, with asset sales, and assisted by favourable exchange with our share price slumping to record lows.
We delivered rate movements in our major countries of operation, underlying EBIT of $2.2 billion 2014: $4.9 billion.
Over the have enabled us to keep net debt at a stable $12.9 billion, past two years, price falls have impacted underlying EBIT by despite persistent price decreases for our commodities.
$6.6 billion, of which $4.2 billion was in 2015 alone.
LIQUIDITY AND DEBT TARGETS STRATEGIC FOCUS Despite maintaining strong liquidity, with c. $15 billion of Given that no mining company in todays market can rely cash and undrawn facilities, we are nevertheless taking on an early uplift in prices, we have acted to create a new further steps to substantially strengthen the balance sheet, Anglo American with a deleveraged balance sheet.
thus unlocking value and supporting the rebuilding of shareholder equity.
Given the current extremely low price We are, therefore, refining our focus towards a core portfolio levels for our products, which may persist for some time, we of a reduced number of world class assets.
These comprise are targeting a significant reduction of our net debt to below our leading positions in diamonds, platinum group metals $10billion in 2016, and to be less than 2.5 times EBITDA in PGMs and our very attractive position in copper.
long life, competitive assets with the mineral potential to organically grow to create an attractive new Anglo American Following on from these cost reductions and cash savings, business with good profitability through the cycle.
They are we are targeting being free cash flow positive in 2016, at also midto late-cycle commodities and products which current prices and exchange rates.
afford our Group greater exposure to the fast-growing consumer sectors of the global economy, within which DIVIDEND lie a number of next-generation clean energy and other environmental technologies that rely upon such products.
We maintained a 32 cents per share dividend at the We will thus, over time, rebalance the Group away from the interim stage.
However, given the sharply deteriorating commodities which are more heavily linked to the steel commodity price environment in the second half of the industry and the urbanisation phase of development in year, and the need to conserve cash and reduce debt, China and other emerging and developing economies.
regrettably we had to take the unavoidable step of suspending dividend payments.
When we resume The restructuring will be challenging given its scale and dividend payments, we will move to a payout ratio-based boldness, but the streamlined organisation structure and policy, which we will define at that time.
clearly defined Operating Model under Mark Cutifanis leadership, as well as the well-thought-through plans for discussion with our wide range of stakeholders, give us confidence in their execution.
04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report SAFETY as he had expressed a wish to concentrate on his business interests in South Africa.
The Board would like to thank him One critical and enduring priority for us is the Boards for his keen commercial and strategic capability, and sound continued close involvement with safety.
We make no judgement over the past four years.
apology that safety performance is at the front end of our agenda at every Board meeting, with our goal being to During 2015, we commenced an external evaluation of the achieve zero injuries.
Board and we remain committed to doing this every three years, as well as to upgrading our internal process of In 2015, our Group regrettably recorded six fatalities.
evaluation in the intervening years.
However, this level, while six too many, equals the record low figure reported in 2014 when the number of hours worked at many of our deep level, and potentially A WORD OF THANKS hazardous, platinum mines was significantly lower I want to particularly thank all our Board members and the owing to a five-month period of industrial action.
executive management team led by Mark Cutifani for the Any death while on company business saddens us all.
professionalism and dedication to find the right strategic In our Sustainability Committee, under the dedicated route through the turbulent and uncertain period we are chairmanship of Jack Thompson, himself an experienced experiencing in the mining industry.
miner, we investigate the causes and lessons learnt for My thanks and the appreciation of the whole Board go to each loss of human life in great detail.
Our much improved all our employees and contractors, who have been through second six months with, notably, a fatality-free final quarter, and continue to face significant change as we navigate was particularly encouraging.
VALUES AND CULTURE OUTLOOK In todays increasingly stringent legal and regulatory Following the plunge in mining commodity prices from environment, mining companies are being subjected to 2012, the outlook for raw materials remains challenging unprecedented close scrutiny by their various stakeholders.
as Chinas continuing slowdown unfolds and policymakers This behoves everyone who works for Anglo American to try to rebalance and restructure the economy away from constantly work on building the trust that is an integral part its heavy reliance on infrastructure investment.
In addition, of our deep-seated reputation for doing the right thing, the potential for higher US interest rates and a stronger including a respect for human rights everywhere, and to dollar could present stiff headwinds for the global economy, show zero tolerance to any form of bribery and corruption.
However, with commodity During the year, the Board requested outside input prices at such depressed levels, following some four years and challenge in assessing the Ethical Framework of decline, we are finally beginning to see more supply-side at AngloAmerican.
Following on from this, several discipline in certain of our commodities and a reduction in recommendations were made and considered by expenditure on large-scale mining expansion projects, the Board.
Implementation of the recommendations which should in due course put a floor under prices.
approved by the Board will take place during 2016.
Against this background, Anglo American has responded As a Board, we acknowledge that, in practical terms, the with a bold plan to concentrate the business, within a tone from the top starts with us, regardless of the state strong balance sheet, on an established core of world class of the market.
This is particularly true for me as your assets.
This will place us well as Chinas economy matures Chairman in my dealings with Board members, senior and as developed consumer-led economies especially management and all manner of stakeholders.
It is also the the US and Europe continue to grow.
case for our Chief Executive, and his management team, As your Chairman, I believe that the new Anglo American who are required to conduct all engagements both inside will be more resilient and positioned to generate sustainable and outside the business with the respect and integrity positive returns and growth for shareholders through the demanded.
And it is how each of us, as employees of mining cycle.
Anglo American, should embody the Companys values in our daily work.
Actions and behaviours speak louder than any words and set the tone at all levels in our organisation.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT In these exceptionally tough times for our industry, it Our 2015 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed is especially important that our integrity, consistency and approved by the Board on 15 February 2016. in behaviour and transparency in all our dealings remain paramount.
THE BOARD Sir John Parker Succession planning at Board level for all Board members, Chairman including the Chairman, is kept under regular review by the non-executive directors and the Nomination Committee.
Tony ONeill, our Group Director of Technical and Sustainability, was appointed to the Board in July as Technical Director, and I should like to acknowledge his vast mining experience, knowledge, inventiveness and the strong leadership he has brought to our technical team, particularly in supporting the turnaround of underperforming operations.
We have also, with great regret, had to accept the resignation of Phuthuma Nhleko Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 05
