6 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Chairmans overview Creating the technology that shapes the connected world Stuart Chambers ARM is the worlds leading semiconductor IP ARM has performed strongly in 2015.
We develop and license technology revenues increased by 15% and normalised diluted Chairman that is at the heart of many of the digital earnings per share by 25% to 30.2p IFRS: 33% to electronic devices sold each year, from sensors 23.9p.
The Board has recommended an increase in tosmartphones to servers.
ARMs energy-efficient the full year dividend for 2015 of 25%, demonstrating microprocessor technology is helping to shape the Boards confidence in ARMs long-term growth the world we live in.
Smart chips are digitally opportunities, and, during the year, approved the $1,489m connecting people with each other and also with buyback of 9.0 million shares.
the connected products that we use every day, Dollar revenues creating a network of intelligent devices that During the year, ARM announced that it is enables us to get things done more quickly and accelerating its investment into developing 15% easily.
We have embraced the rapid pace of change technologies for networking infrastructure, in this increasingly digital world by developing servers and the Internet of Things.
These are all technology that brings new possibilities to a rapidly growing markets, and by investing now we globally connected population.
can increase ARMs opportunity in future years, securing greater long-term returns for shareholders.
ARM is a fast-growing business in a dynamic and The Internet of Things will drive demand for a huge competitive market.
In 2015 our customers reported number of smart sensors and chips, and we will that they had shipped around 15 billion ARMwork closely with ourPartners to ensure that many based chips, an increase of 23% on the prior year.
The growth rate and size Just under half of those chips were shipped into of the market are still uncertain: nevertheless we 30.2p mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, believe that this is an exciting opportunity that will Normalised where ARM has a high market share.
An increasing benefit ARM today and in the future.
EPS growth number of chips were shipped into new markets, 25% including networking infrastructure and embedded intelligent devices such as microcontrollers and chips for the Internet of Things.
ARM also signed 173 new processor licences which will underpin royalty revenues for years to come.
8.78p Dividend growth 25% ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 7 Board changes On behalf of the Board, the management, and the wider team, we thank Tim for service throughout As announced in 2014, Tim Score, ARMs Chief By investing now we his 13 years as CFO at ARM, Kathleen for her nine Financial Officer, retired in June 2015.
Chris Kennedy years, including chairman of the Audit Committee has been appointed as CFO and joined the Board of can increase ARMs and senior independent director, and we welcome ARM Holdings plc as a director from 1 September Chris, Lawton and Stephen to the Board.
Chris brings to ARM more than 20 years of opportunity in future international experience in senior finance roles in The above changes are consistent with our aim of abroad range of sectors, most recently at easyJet years, securing greater having a Board with the right balance of skills and plc where he has served as CFO and member of expertise.
Together we have rened ARMs strategy theBoard since 2010.
Prior to easyJet Chris worked long-term returns for increasing investment over the next few years in at EMI plc.
order to accelerate future market share.
Lawton Fitt and Stephen Pusey both joined the Finally, I would like to thank all of ARMs employees Board on 1 September 2015 as independent nonfor their effort and contribution in 2015.
Stephen has many years of forward to seeing ARM continue to develop new experience managing global technology companies, technology that will shape the future for our including Vodafone Group plc from which he increasingly connected world.
recently retired as Chief Technology Officer.
Lawton has deep financial experience, having held a Stuart Chambers broad range of board positions, and was previously apartner at Goldman, Sachs & Co. Chairman Kathleen ODonovan, senior independent non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committee, retired from the ARM Board in December 2015, having completed nine years service.
Lawton Fitt has replaced Kathleen as chairman ofthe Audit Committee: and Andy Greenis now thesenior independent director.
8 ARM Strategic Report 2015 ARMv8-A Next generation phones will be both aware of their location and Around 50% of context i. e. home, smartphones sold office, school, etc.. in 2015 contained an ARMv8-A based processor.
Faster connectivity and reduced latency will enable new services.
