OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Letter from the Chairman Jean-Paul Luksic We took a cautious approach to developing Dear Shareholders, our business at the peak of the market, and There is no doubt that 2015 has been as a result we entered the current downturn We took a cautious approach a difficult year, and one in which the with a strong balance sheet.
As we continue to developing our business challenges facing our industry have been to respond to low commodity prices, we brought into sharp focus.
Continued falls at the peak of the market.
are taking the steps needed to ensure our in commodity prices have highlighted the continued financial resilience in the future worst effects of more than a decade of by working hard and focusing our efforts on bullish markets, a time when the industry being disciplined in our allocation of capital, appeared to have forgotten that the mining reducing costs, improving operational business is cyclical and cost control came efficiencies and lowering our overheads.
a distant second to production growth.
We remain focused on cash flow generation This over-exuberance led to over-investment and margin improvements through in new mining capacity across the globe sustainable cost reductions and productivity and a resultant decline in productivity.
improvements that help compensate the Industry lead times have meant that just impact of lower commodity prices.
as global demand growth slowed, much Managing these challenges is important, ofthis new production came online at what but I believe that every downturn also offers are now unsustainable costs.
Now isthe opportunities and during 2015 Antofagasta time to remove the consequences of acquired a 50% stake in the high-quality these excesses.
Zaldvar copper mine in northern Chile with Against this backdrop it has not been minimal impact to the balance sheet as business as usual for Antofagasta this it followed the sale of our water division.
Alongside our peers we have suffered The acquisition was carefully considered and from the worsening macro-environment represents a rare opportunity to advance our and deteriorating market conditions.
long-term objectives, building on our existing The commissioning of Antucoya took portfolio of operations.
longer than planned despite the projects Antofagasta has weathered another difficult construction cost being on budget.
At an year, but remains on a solid and sustainable operational level, heavy rains early in the footing for the long term.
year led to delays in the commissioning of our expansion of Centinela, while Chile finding solutions together community action at the Los Pelambres Mining is an important part of Chiles mine saw interruptions to production.
economy, contributing 11.2% to its GDP in As aresult our production performance for 2014.
With our history in the country, and 2015 fell short of our original expectations.
our status as the largest non-state mining Group, Antofagasta is well positioned to help realise the full potential of the countrys world-class copper resources.
We believe that Chiles political and fiscal stability, and its skilled mining workforce make it an attractive place for our capital, asdemonstrated by our investments inZaldvar and Antucoya.
Antofagasta plc 05 Letter from the Chairman The impact of lower commodity prices on The sale of the ADASA water business jobs and revenue generated by the mining effectively funded our acquisition from sector to Chile is substantial, and to ensure Barrick Gold in December of a 50% stake in Our approach to allocating the long-term sustainability of mining, the Zaldvar copper mine.
We take a rigorous capital with an appropriate the response must be a collective one approach to acquisitions, and over the last balance between investment, companies, employees, communities and three years the team screened 2030 government must unite to find solutions to potential projects with only Zaldvar meeting growth and dividends has complex problems.
We must co-operate our long-term objectives and passing our allowed the Company to retain to reverse the decline in productivity and hurdle rates for this type of investment.
continue to work with our communities to a strong position and our The closing of an extraordinary reduce our social and environmental impact.
financial strength gave us the mine Michilla Only by doing this can we ensure our capacity to take advantage of industry has a long-term future in Chile.
The year saw the closure of the Groups very first mine, Michilla, after 50 years of copper opportunities over the year.
Michilla played a very important Early in 2015 we were faced with role in Antofagastas history and inmy disruptions at our Los Pelambres operations personal life.
When I was 18 years old I did as a result of a blockade by the local a summer internship at Michilla as a rock community, who were protesting about the drill operators assistant in the underground perceived impact of the mining operations mine.
This was my first job and it was on the local water supply.
We realised that hard, but one I will never forget as I learned we must change the way that we engage valuable life experiences.
For me and many with our communities in order to strengthen others, not only just in the Group, but in our relationships and find solutions that the Chilean mining industry as a whole, work for all sides.
We are only at the Michilla has been a great school for learning beginning of this journey but I am confident about mining.
With both oxide and sulphide that the actions we have taken over the deposits, and underground and open pit course of 2015 have taken the depth of our operations, Michilla was a microcosm engagement with the local communities to ofthecountrys copper mining industry.
a new level and will provide us with a strong For those who have worked at this mine, foundation for the future.
I would like to say thank you.
To the Turning to our financials, while lower metal communities, suppliers and our other prices impacted revenue and profit, we partners over the past half century as well remained focused on maintaining a strong as the local, national and federal authorities, balance sheet, improving operational thank you as well for being part of the spirit efficiencies and managing costs all with of Michilla.
a keen focus on cash flow and margins.
Our approach to allocating capital with an appropriate balance between investment, growth and dividends has allowed the Company to retain a strong position and our financial strength gave us the capacity to take advantage of opportunities over the year.
06 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Safety Outlook The safety of our employees, communities The year 2015 was a time for managing It is vital that we continue and operations always comes first in the challenges that faced Antofagasta and everything that we do and we continue the wider industry as a whole in what has to focus on improving our to work hard to achieve our target of zero been another year of brutal markets and operational performance fatalities.
However, I am saddened to report operating conditions.
But, as was the case and our ability to deliver that during the course of 2015 Antofagasta with Zaldvar, this has also been a time for had one fatality, and I would like to express taking advantage of opportunities when on our commitments.
on my own behalf as well as that of the they appear.
Board my sincere condolences to the As we look forward to 2016 we are family of our colleague.
under no illusion that the macroeconomic environment will improve in the near term.
Governance and the Board We are expecting another year of low Over the course of the year we undertook copper prices.
Consequently, it is vital that a number of changes to the Board to we continue to focus on improving our enhance our corporate governance.
operational performance and our ability The introduction of a new Projects todeliver on our commitments.
Committee will allow greater Board We will not be afraid to make difficult oversight of Antofagastas major projects.
Our internal business functions The development of new projects is have been strengthened, our costs reduced, critical to the future of the Company and our balance sheet strength maintained this Committee will allow more detailed and, operationally, in the final quarter we scrutiny of our projects than is possible at have seen a good end to the year.
All of full Board meetings.
All matters that are this leaves us well placed to weather the brought to the Board for approval will first current downturn.
be reviewed by the Committee to highlight matters for the Boards consideration As a final note, I would like to thank all and to make recommendations to the ofouremployees and management for Board.
This Committee is already making alloftheir hard work over the last year and an important contribution to providing Ilook forward to the year ahead.
Board-level input into the advancement ofour projects.
I would also like to take this opportunity tothank Miguel Sepulveda for his 29 years of service at Antofagasta, the last 22 years of which have been as General Manager for our railways business, the historical heart of the Group.
Miguel stepped down in October and I thank him for his service and loyalty to Antofagasta and wish him the very best for his retirement.
