Chairmans statement The increase in our profitability can be attributed to the year-on-year sales growth and the incremental EBITDA that increased volumes has provided, together with tight control of gross margin and overheads.
We are driving our business forward in our core UK market by investing in improvements across AOs retail and logistics operations.
This is helping to secure an ever-increasing level of repeat business from our loyal customers, as well as attracting new customers.
During the year customer finance was introduced to AO.
com which allows us to attract even more customers.
Product focused promotions and TV advertising have also helped to drive sales.
Ongoing improvements in the website, internal IT systems and management information have been delivered by the team this year also contributing to our performance.
We reported on 25 February 2015 that not achieving the level of UK sales expected as our fourth quarter progressed, despite trading very well through Black Friday, Christmas and the New Year, impacted on our anticipated EBITDA for the full year.
Naturally, we were disappointed to miss our UK sales and profit expectations for the year but we remain focused on achieving high-growth and delivering our Richard Rose Chairman long-term plan.
Our strategy to broaden the business continues.
com now offers I am pleased to report on some significant achievements a wide range of audio-visual products AV.
The market for AV is during our first full year as a public company.
Overall Group significant and we are expanding our internal expertise to capitalise on revenue increased by 23.8% to 476.7m 2014: 384.9 for the this with future developments planned to include the sale of our own year under review, with Group Adjusted EBITDA reaching label products and a wider range of premium models.
8.5m 2014: 11.2m after allowing for 8m of Europe Adjusted EBITDA losses.
Year-on-year UK sales were up 22.3% to 470.8m Opening a brand new operation in Germany in a relatively short space and UK Adjusted EBITDA was up 47.3% to 16.5m.
We have of time was going to be a real test of our culture and our teams did an broadened our product range with the introduction on AO.
com excellent job in launching the business in approximately six months.
of audio-visual equipment and we completed our first step in We decided against heavy marketing to allow sales to build naturally international expansion with the successful launch of AO.
fide so that our teams could gain the experience needed to handle higher in Germany.
Whilst doing this, we have continued to maintain volumes and that our processes could be fine-tuned to the German our unique culture and continue to provide a market-leading market.
We achieved pleasing progress in Germany with the business proposition backed by a level of service that our customers finishing the year with an annualised sales run-rate of almost 20m still describe as exceptional.
and with no national media marketing.
Considering we only launched in October 2014 and have only allowed sales to build gradually, this Our balance sheet remains strong with cash balances at the annualised rate of sales provides us with much encouragement.
Customer feedback has been exceptional, as evidenced by our Trustpilot score of 9.6 as at 12 May 2015.
As expected, overall in our Europe segment we made an EBITDA loss of 12.3m which includes Germany costs and losses and costs incurred in exploring other territory opportunities on continental Europe.
We anticipate trading will continue to yield an EBITDA loss in Europe through this current financial year as we build sales towards breakeven level.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Our progress this year in Germany gives us the confidence that the AO model can translate across categories and borders.
There is still a way to go, but we are on track with our strategic long-term plans.
Extensive work is underway to research those markets adjacent to Germany Build where we can leverage our existing infrastructure and grow the business into new territories.
our brand in the UK and Europe.
Outlook We are on track with our plans at this early stage of the new financial year.
Although the current trading environment in the UK remains challenging, we are well positioned to compete successfully given the flexibility and efficiency of our business model.
Whilst there remains a Drive lot still to do as we build scale in Germany, we are encouraged by our progress over the first six months of trading in our new territory and sales and profit through innovation, the run rate of revenues as we exited the year.
This gave us a good efficiency and happiness.
base to start from for the current financial year and the sales momentum is gathering pace.
As always, we remain focused on the long-term growing the business by driving profitable market share growth through providing exceptional performance, driving loyalty, reaching out to new Broaden customers, maintaining a tight control on overheads and expanding the territories in which we operate.
the categories we sell where our business model will work.
AGM Our AGM will be held on 21 July 2015 at the Companys headquarters in Bolton at 10am and I look forward to welcoming shareholders.
Richard Rose Expand Chairman 2 June 2015 overseas: the launch of AO.
fide is testament to our ability to execute our promises and replicate our proven business model overseas.
We are on track with our strategic long-term plans and remain focused on driving profitable market share growth through providing an exceptional customer experience.
Find out more about our governance section on pages 42 to 71.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
