Chairmans statement Combining growth with financial stability I am delighted to report that we again had an excellent year with Prudent financial management is one of the anchors to Ashteads strong performance in North America and the UK.
We delivered strategy and growth and ensures we retain financial security record results with both Sunbelt and A-Plant performing well in and strength at all stages of the economic and market cycles.
Our full-year revenue was 2,039m This prudency has enabled us to support our structural growth compared to 1,635m the previous year.
Our underlying pre-tax and market share penetration.
We will continue to capitalise on our profit was up 35% year-on-year to 490m at constant exchange momentum in our strong markets and sectors to grow responsibly rates and our EBITDA margin rose to 45% 2014: 42%, reflecting whilst positioning the business to perform in any economic continued strong operational performance and efficiency gains.
Our strong balance sheet serves us well and, in September 2014, we issued $500m of senior secured notes due Rental revenue at Sunbelt grew 25% and 19% at A-Plant as both in 2024 to provide continued flexibility.
businesses took advantage of improving market conditions and increased their market share.
The theme of this years report This is who we are builds on last years emphasis on customer service.
Sunbelt and A-Plant people We continue to invest significantly in the business and spent 1,063m make things happen for our customers every day.
They take great on capital expenditure and 236m on strategic acquisitions during pride in finding solutions to all manner of challenges.
We acquired a number of new businesses including our first in this report some of the great things customers say about our acquisition in Canada.
We invested 1bn in building and maintaining dependable team and the difference they make to their working day.
our best in class rental fleet and expect to invest a similar amount Management is immensely grateful for the continuing commitment next year to further assist our growth.
of all our people who make us who we are, a great company to work Notwithstanding our significant investment over the year, we continue for and with.
to prioritise responsible growth, generating strong returns and I am confident that your Board is well balanced and diverse, keeping leverage within our stated objective of two times EBITDA or promoting good governance, support and thoughtful, enlightened lower.
Our expenditure is consistent with our strategy at this stage of challenge.
In view of our excellent performance and in line with the economic cycle, of investing in organic growth, opening greenfield our progressive dividend policy, the Board is recommending a final sites whilst continuing to reduce our leverage.
dividend of 12.25p per share making 15.25p for the year compared to 11.5p in 2014.
Assuming the final dividend is approved at the Annual General Meeting, it will be paid on 4 September 2015 to shareholders on the register on 14 August 2015.
We continue to see strategic, cyclical and structural growth opportunities and remain confident of our ability to continue to deliver excellent operational performance and strong financial management which underpins ongoing shareholder value.
CHRIS COLE Chairman 15 June 2015 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4
