Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement we are integrating sustainability into how we measure the success with which we are delivering our strategic priorities.
The Board of Directors has sought to ensure that John Varley had also undertaken the important role of Senior independent AstraZenecas achievements in 2015 were underpinned Non-Executive Director.
I am grateful to by strong corporate governance.
Our efforts were also Rudy Markham for taking on this role.
focused on ensuring that the Groups future success Transparent reporting is supported by corporate governance best practice.
Rudy also chairs the Audit Committee which has a crucial role in reviewing our financial reporting, risk management and financial controls.
We aim to be as transparent as we Governance in support of our strategy I would like to thank Graham Chipchase can in our reporting and, with that in mind, In his introduction to the Strategic Report, for assuming the role of Chairman of the in preparing our viability statement which is our Chief Executive Officer, Pascal Soriot, Remuneration Committee after John Varley on page 21 of this Annual Report, we also outlined a successful year for AstraZeneca stood down at last years AGM, having reviewed our principal risks, how we in implementing our strategy.
The chart spent nine years as a Non-Executive describe them and the information we overleaf summarises the governance Director.
The Directors Remuneration provide about them.
I am grateful to the structure we have in place to ensure that Report can be found from page 103 and members of the Audit Committee for the Board is able properly to discharge Grahams Committee plays an essential role their thorough work in undertaking a its responsibilities in setting that strategy, in ensuring that the interests of the Executive competitive tender process for our external as well as monitoring and reviewing its Directors and other senior leaders are audit services in line with best practice.
progress, and ensuring that we manage our aligned with the interests of shareholders As a result of this, the Board will be risks and carry out business responsibly.
over the short, medium and longer term.
recommending the appointment of  LLP at our Another important part of our work Thanks are also due to Bruce Burlington AGM in 2017. is listening to the views of external who became Chairman of the Science stakeholders, whether they are medical Committee during the year, in succession A sustainable business practitioners and clinical researchers, or to Nancy Rothwell, who also stood down at Genevive Berger is another valued representatives of investors and financial last years AGM, having spent nine years as member of the Board and the Science institutions.
We also maintain an active a Board member.
She also performs a vital role dialogue with shareholders about executive assurance to the Board on the quality, in overseeing AstraZenecas sustainability remuneration.
Looking ahead, we will be competitiveness and integrity of our science.
framework and reporting to the Board.
spending more time considering succession planning to ensure we have the leaders Both of these Committees were For AstraZeneca, sustainability means we need to deliver our goal of sustainable strengthened further during the year when implementing our strategy and delivering growth over the longer term.
Shriti Vadera and Cori Bargmann who was the targets we have set ourselves in a way elected for the first time as a Non-Executive that promotes the long-term health of Committees of the Board Director at our AGM in 2015 became AstraZeneca, the societies in which we The Boards work is supported by four members respectively of the Remuneration work, and the planet.
Employees and principal Committees and I am grateful Committee and the Science Committee.
external stakeholders expect it and to their members, and especially their AstraZenecas future ability to get new Chairmen, for the role they play in the medicines to patients in the most efficient robust governance of AstraZeneca.
82 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Corporate Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code We have prepared this Annual Report We have complied throughout the with reference to the UK Corporate accounting period with the provisions of Governance Code published by the UK the UK Corporate Governance Code, which Financial Reporting Council FRC in is available on the FRCs website.
co. uk This Corporate Governance Report together with other sections of this Annual Report describes how we apply the main principles of good governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Moreover, it helps how we measure the success with which Return to shareholders attract and retain talented employees and we are delivering our strategic priorities.
Consistent with our progressive dividend enhances trust in our business and our We need to build on that by focusing policy, the Board has recommended a reputation.
In acting in this way, we not our work and ensuring that sustainability second interim dividend of $1.90 per only protect our licence to operate but also thinking is part of our culture and embedded Ordinary Share.
This brings the dividend deliver value to those who benefit from our into the way we do business.
for the full year to $2.80 per Ordinary Share.
medicines, our shareholders, society and The Boards aim is to continue to strike the environment.
A challenging business environment a balance between the interests of the In his Financial Review on page 62, our business, financial creditors and our Achievements recognised Chief Financial Officer, Marc Dunoyer, shareholders.
After providing for investment AstraZeneca has been working for over reported on the accelerating performance in the business, supporting the progressive a decade to achieve business success of our Growth Platforms.
He also reported dividend policy and maintaining a strong in a responsible manner.
For example, on the continued impact of the loss of investment-grade credit rating, the Board we have delivered safety, health and exclusivity as medicines such as Nexium will keep under review investment in environment improvements and created a and Crestor continue to lose exclusivity in earnings-accretive opportunities.
diverse workforce: we have promoted the key markets, including the US and Europe.
development of our products in an ethical Such a loss of exclusivity is a normal part of Appreciation way: and taken steps to broaden access an innovative medicines life-cycle.
It is Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, I to our medicines.
I am also pleased to expected and we plan for it.
want to thank the employees of AstraZeneca.
report that, in 2015, we met all our Their outstanding efforts helped make 2015 obligations under our five-year Corporate Even as we plan for loss of exclusivity, a great year for science and patients.
In Integrity Agreement in the US, which has we continue to face challenging market particular, I want to express my appreciation now come to an end.
The world pharmaceutical market to Pascal and all the members of the Senior ethical standards in the way we conduct is growing and underlying demographic Executive Team for their leadership in our business remains a priority.
Nonetheless, many delivering a successful year.
of the drivers of demand and supply in the Our achievements were once again sector are under pressure.
On the demand recognised in 2015 with an improved score side, we face increased competition from of 84% 79% in 2014 in the Dow Jones generic drugs.
In addition, securing an Sustainability Index.
Our score contributed appropriate level of reward for our medicines to the Silver Class rating awarded to us is becoming more difficult in the face of for our sustainability performance by pricing pressures.
On the supply side, the Leif Johansson RobecoSAM, the respected sustainability industry faces an ongoing R&D productivity Chairman investment specialist.
Costs have risen and, although in 2015 the FDA approved the highest Looking ahead, if we are to be among the number of new medicines since 1996, best performers, there is more we need to we still need to improve the probability do.
We have refreshed and strengthened of success of our projects.
our governance arrangements, as outlined in the section, In the wider world from page 55, and we are integrating sustainability into AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 83
