Strategic report | Chairmans statement | 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT generate strong cash flows and reduce This financial year has been net debt significantly as a result.
A STRONG characterised by continuing This year has seen growth for a number investment in businesses of our businesses.
Primark expanded its PERFORMANCE BY retail selling space by 9% this year with growth opportunities and with a major increase in its presence in ALL BUSINESSES Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands a relentless drive for improved and at the end of the year it opened its efficiencies and cost reduction.
Brand development DESPITE at our Grocery businesses included a The two major challenges facing the group major relaunch of Twinings black teas have been well flagged food commodity CURRENCY AND in the UK, growth for Mazola, driven deflation and substantial movements in by strong advertising of its cholesterol currency markets.
lowering benefits, and commercial COMMODITY A key influence on our food businesses success for the Don meat brand in has been deflation in many of our major Australia.
Our enzyme business went CHALLENGES commodities, making growth in revenues from strength to strength and was a difficult to achieve.
The most notable key contributor to the profit increase examples are the substantial declines in Agriculture and Ingredients.
We in both the EU and world sugar prices.
continue to position our businesses We have also experienced significant to enable them to maximise revenue movements in exchange rates with growth opportunities.
a strengthening of sterling and the The EU sugar price has stabilised in US dollar, and a weakening of the euro the latter part of the year.
However, the and emerging market currencies.
These significant fall both in EU and world sugar movements had a negative effect on the prices has put considerable strain on the translation of overseas results but also, world sugar industry and has sharpened and increasingly as the year progressed, our focus on securing the long term on transactional exposures.
As one of the Against this background a 2% decline in lowest cost producers we have always adjusted earnings per share is all the more sought to reduce costs and maximise creditable and the group continued to production efficiency and significantly, CHARLES SINCLAIR, CHAIRMAN Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Chairmans statement | 5 Corporate responsibility cost reduction across the group this At the heart of our group is the very simple year.
These required a robust challenge philosophy that helping to feed and to historic practices, innovation and clothe people is a virtuous and valuable creativity, and an absolute determination endeavour.
Our approach to ensuring to succeed, all of which underpinned that we provide our customers with delivery of this years result.
high-quality, ethically sourced products Auditors in a responsible manner is described KPMG or one of its predecessor firms in our latest Corporate Responsibility has been our auditor since the Company Update which is published today and was incorporated in 1935.
In light of the is available on the groups website at new requirements of the UK Corporate A RESPONSIBLE www.
Governance Code, the external audit The board of the group financial statements was BUSINESS The Senior Independent Director, put out to tender during the year and the Our Corporate Responsibility Update Tim Clarke, was appointed to the board board has now appointed Ernst & Young outlines our values and good business in 2004 and, in accordance with the LLP as the Companys new auditor with practice, and our commitment UK Corporate Governance Code, having effect from 4 November 2015, subject to improving productivity completed nine years service in 2013, to approval by shareholders at the annual while managing our footprint the rest of the board must now confirm general meeting.
I would like to take his independence annually.
This having this opportunity to thank KPMG for their abf.
co. uk responsibility been done, we are delighted that Tim unstinting professionalism, for the insight has agreed to continue as a member that they have brought and the value of the board and as the Senior that they have added to our businesses this year, we have secured lower future Independent Director.
beet costs for our EU sugar businesses and closed two uneconomic factories Javier Ferrn completed nine years on the Dividends in Heilongjiang, China.
board at the beginning of November 2015 I am pleased to report that a final dividend and has agreed to continue as a director of 25.0p is proposed, to be paid on Cost reduction was not confined to our but retired from the Audit committee at the 8 January 2016 to shareholders on the Sugar businesses.
The substantial profit conclusion of its meeting on 26 October.
Together and margin recovery in Ingredients and The rest of the board has considered, and with the interim dividend of 10.0p paid margin improvement in Grocery were subsequently confirmed, his continuing on 3 July 2015, this will make a total of also driven by wide ranging initiatives independence.
Lord Jay has also 35.0p for the year, an increase of 3%.
completed nine years on the board and Outlook We continued to invest for the long will retire at the end of November.
We The good underlying trading achieved term with gross capital expenditure have benefited greatly from the breadth by our businesses in 2015 is expected on property, plant, equipment and of Michaels experience and I would like to continue.
Over half to record my thanks to him for his wise of this was spent on Primarks expansion counsel and highly valued contribution We intend to maintain investment in where, this year, we added 20 new stores to the board over the years.
expansion opportunities, most notably for and almost one million square feet to the Primark.
After three years of large profit In January we welcomed Wolfhart Hauser estate.
We expect next years increase declines for AB Sugar, we expect greater to the board as a non-executive director to be even greater.
We also increased stability in profit next year ahead of EU and he was appointed to the Audit the scale of Primarks distribution quota removal in 2017.
However, the committee in April.
Dr Hauser was chief infrastructure to support this growth by substantial moves in exchange rates last executive officer of Intertek Group plc until extending existing warehouse capacity year, notably the weakening of the euro his retirement in May 2015, and during his and opening new facilities in the Czech and emerging market currencies, will career he led a broad range of successful Republic and the US.
The focus of our have a significant influence on the results international service industry businesses.
capital expenditure within the food for the coming year.
At current rates the He is currently a non-executive director of businesses was directed at expansion translation impact would be at a similar RELX Group plc, formerly Reed Elsevier, of capacity-constrained facilities and level to last year but the transactional and chairman of FirstGroup plc.
impact would be greater and will be seen Employees primarily in Primark and British Sugar.
Cash flow was again strong this year This years success is testament to despite a working capital outflow driven At this early stage we expect the currency the resilience and resourcefulness of by higher sugar stocks.
Net debt at the pressures to lead to a modest decline our employees who, in many of our year end was 252m lower than last in adjusted operating profit and adjusted businesses, and particularly in Sugar, year at 194m.
With the groups cash earnings for the group for the coming year.
have been operating in difficult market generating ability, the lower net debt conditions.
I would like to thank them all Charles Sinclair and the committed borrowing facilities for their valuable contribution, particularly Chairman available, we have the capacity to to the various continuous improvement meet our growth ambitions.
initiatives that have led to substantial Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
