Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 4 Chairmans statement I am pleased to present the 2015 annual report that once again contains record financial results.
Our performance reaffirms our confidence in our business model, the choice of markets we operate in and our consistent focus on delivering growth, both organically and through acquisitions.
This years results build on our strong performance over the past decade.
This year we have achieved 27% growth in total underlying revenue to 4,503 million.
Excluding the results from Avincis now renamed Babcock Mission Critical Services and other Mike Turner CBE businesses acquired during the year, Chairman the Group achieved a 12% growth in revenue at constant exchange rates.
Total underlying operating profit including acquisitions increased by 37% to 519 million, or 11% excluding acquisitions and at constant exchange rates.
This financial performance resulted in an increase in underlying basic earnings per share of 10.3% to 68.5 pence per Firm focus on growth share 2014: 62.1 pence adjusted for the 2014 rights issue.
yields strong results Full year dividend 23.6p 10% 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 11 12 13 14 15 14.0 16.4 19.0 21.4 23.6 Strategic report 5 As a result of the Groups strong financial was supported by our shareholders.
We look to safeguard our future by taking results and consistent delivery of cash, Since completing the acquisition of on young people as apprentices, trainees along with the strength of the order book the Mission Critical Services business in or graduates, and training them in vital and bid pipeline the Board continues May 2014, the Board has been carefully engineering and business skills.
This year to have confidence in the long-term monitoring progress.
We receive regular we have continued our commitment future of our business.
We are delighted reports outlining its integration into to the 5% Club, increasing the number therefore to recommend a 10.4% the broader Babcock Group.
Its financial of employees on structured training increase in the final dividend per share performance is assessed for progress schemes.
Not only are we encouraging for 2015 of 18.1 pence per share against our expectations at the time the development of engineering skills 2014: 16.4 pence per share.
If approved of the acquisition and we discuss the within our business, we are actively by shareholders, this will give a total potential opportunities that it could involved in a number of schemes to dividend for the year of 26.3 pence provide as a platform for growth for the promote STEM Science Technology per share 2014: 21.4 pence per share, Group as a whole.
We have been pleased Engineering and Maths activities to an increase of 10.3%.
The final dividend with progress to date.
young people, and in particular girls, will be paid on 12 August 2015 to in schools and other educational In August 2014, we decided to make shareholders on the register at establishments around our major sites.
some changes to the Board to strengthen 3 July 2015.
By doing this we hope to encourage the operational management of the more people into STEM careers to ensure Group.
Bill Tame, who has been Group Governance and the Board in future we are able to recruit from the Finance Director since 2002, was I believe our focus on using the depth widest talent pool to sustain and develop appointed Chief Executive of the and breadth of our engineering and the fantastic depth of knowledge and International division which includes the technical knowledge and expertise to experience we have in our operations.
South African operations, the Middle East do what is right for our customers, During the year, I was particularly business development activities as well as meeting or exceeding their expectations, pleased to see our support for women Mission Critical Services.
I was delighted sets us apart from many in our sector.
in engineering and our ongoing support to welcome Franco Martinelli to the In the current economic environment, of STEM activities recognised by HRH Board to succeed Bill as Group Finance this has never been so important.
The Princess Royal when she visited our Director.
Franco has worked alongside As Chairman, I will continue to uphold facilities at Rosyth.
Bill as the Groups Financial Controller the values of openness, honesty and since 2002 and his appointment has transparency which I believe are central Looking forward provided a smooth transition for the to our culture and to safeguarding our Throughout this year the Board has Groups financial operations.
Throughout the year the Board overseen the continuing growth and has been committed to ensuring we development of the Group.
We remain On 1 April 2015, we appointed Myles Lee adhere to and manage the Group in confident in the long-term prospects as a Non-Executive Director.
Myles was accordance with the highest standards of the Group based on the strength of our Chief Executive Officer of CRH plc of corporate governance.
I refer you to business, the visibility we have of future between 2009 and 2013, having the governance statement and Board revenues and the long-term growth joined the business in 1982.
I am very committee reports for further detail prospects we have in the bid pipeline.
pleased Myles has agreed to join us on how we have been doing this.
and I am sure his background and We therefore believe the outlook remains experience in a company that has grown Our strategy has been central to positive and we look forward to making from a business largely focused on its our successful and long-term track further good progress in the 2015 16 domestic markets into one of the worlds record of delivering strong financial financial year.
leading building materials companies results, a strategy which the Board will be of great value to us at this stage regularly reviews and discusses to of our development.
ensure all options for value creating growth, including acquisitions, are Our people carefully considered.
It gives me great pleasure each year Mike Turner CBE A key event for the Board last year to take this opportunity to thank all those Chairman was the decision to acquire the Mission who work for Babcock for their continued Critical Services business for c 1.8 billion hard work and dedication.
Without their including debt and undertake the efforts we would not have achieved so associated rights issue, a process that much this year.
