Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 04 Chairmans letter The value of these skills to the British economy was In a challenging and turbulent world, highlighted in an independent report produced by Oxford 1 the Company delivered a robust and Economics which showed that BAE Systems accounts for 1% of all UK exports, 45p in every 100 of Gross Domestic solid performance.
Product, with labour productivity more than double the national average.
The report was clear that BAE Systems Undoubtedly, in 2015, defence became an increasingly isan important British company at the heart of an important priority for many countries as the risk from important global industry.
terrorism and military aggression continued to grow.
In thiscontext, the nature of our relationships as a strategic Wherever BAE Systems people are working, their safety supplier to the governments of the UK, US, Kingdom of and welfare are our priority, and adherence to our high Saudi Arabia and Australia were clearly raised in importance standards will remain a key focus and an integral part and tempo.
These relationships form the bedrock of our ofour operating policies in every country whether in business and we will continue to invest in strengthening ownership or partnership.
and developing them in the year ahead.
Similarly, our commitment to ethical behaviour wherever Equally, our customers unrelenting demand for we operate is a principle that the Board reinforces through productexcellence has continued to be matched by all its interaction with our people to ensure everyone in the theirrequirement for competitive prices and unfailingly organisation recognises that we are performance-driven, highservice levels.
The executive team has therefore been but values-led.
In measuring our success, we are clear that focused on managing our costs without compromising we should be judged not simply on what we do, but also quality and service throughout the year.
This has required on how we do it.
an appropriate blend of seasoned experience and Adherence to these principles is a vital part of our business refreshed management endeavour, and the benets of culture which we believe is important to all our stakeholders.
thisapproach have been evident across the organisation.
By working with our customers in the spirit of partnership, Reecting on the highlights of the year, we have enjoyed with common objectives, greater transparency and strong performance in our electronic systems business, constructive teamwork, our relationships have been growth in cyber security and solid achievements across the strengthened and deepened.
This style will be the Company, including in our maritime, land vehicles, military hallmarkof our business in the years ahead.
air, international and services businesses.
As we continue to develop our business and presence Our disappointments have been primarily limited to delays internationally, we have embraced the needs of our customers in some military aircraft orders, the absence of near-term to establish and provide high-quality local employment Australian government orders to sustain our local and industrial capability, through partnerships and joint shipbuilding capabilities and the identication of additional ventures for local manufacturing, services, procurement costs necessary to complete commercial ship construction and product assembly.
This strategy has been particularly contracts in the US.
evident in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and we believe Overall, we have been satisfied with our achievements in that the expansion of our relationship in the Kingdom will delivering sales of 17.9bn and underlying earnings per go hand-in-hand with our commitment to developing share of 40.2p, reassured by the strength of our order greater local content.
It is a partnership built over 50 years backlog of 36.8bn and pleased that future cash generation that we will seek to expand in both our interests.
In India and robust prospects have facilitated a healthy dividend of too, we have a long and successful record in manufacturing 20.9p per share.
Hawk aircraft with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited that embodies Prime Minister Modis Make in India strategy.
Looking forward, recent financial commitments to thedefence sector by the governments of our major During the course of the year, I visited many of our customersprovide welcome clarity and stability for our businesses across the globe and was consistently impressed core programmes.
We take none of this for granted.
by the technical capabilities of our people, their enthusiasm Weare very aware of our responsibilities to work with for supplying and supporting those that protect us, and vigour and rigour in designing, developing and providing their pride in delivering world-class products and services.
the highest quality of products and services on time and I saw at first hand the training facilities and support we tobudget, offering both value for money and unrivalled provide apprentices and graduates in the United Kingdom.
capability to those that put their trust in us.
The Board Following a record intake of some 1,000 new graduates andthe management team will respect that trust and and apprentices in 2015, we will have around 2,000 UK strive to meet our obligations as a constructive partner.
apprentices and graduates in training by the end of 2016 as With this in mind, we look forward to delivering a strong we continue to build our own pipeline of talent for the future.
performance in the year ahead.
I witnessed the progress we have made in a number of countries encouraging young people, and in particular female students, to consider engineering as a rewarding career and in promoting a more diverse workforce overall.
Isaw on site visits the achievements of young people whohad made that choice and were now working on technological innovations in cyber security, electronics orthe next generation of complex military platforms andservices from submarines to unmanned aircraft.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 05 Dividend pence The Company 20.
9p delivered a robust and 2% solid performance.
2015 20.9 Sir Roger Carr Chairman 2014 20.5 2013 20.1 2012 19.5 2011 18.8 The Board and directors In June 2015, Carl Symon resigned from the Board having completed seven years service.
Carl made a valuable contribution as both a non-executive director and chair ofthe Remuneration Committee, and we wish him well inhis retirement.
Paula Rosput Reynolds has now taken over the role of chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Elizabeth Corley has recently joined the Board as a non-executive director.
Elizabeth will shortly step down from her current position as Chief Executive officer of Allianz Global Investors.
As a highly respected leader in thenancial services industry and member of the Financial Reporting Council, Elizabeth will bring considerable business acumen, international perspective and strong governance credentials to the Board.
I am delighted that as part of our succession planning programme we have recently been able to announce the appointment of Charles Woodburn to the Board, in the newly-created role of Chief Operating officer.
Reporting to the Chief Executive, he will bring outstanding engineering credentials, valuable international experience and a fresh perspective to the Companys operations and the Board.
Led by our Senior Independent Director, Nick Rose, the Board has agreed to extend my term of appointment as Chairman until February 2020.
I very much look forward to continuing to work with fellow directors and the executive team during this period.
Dividend The Board has recommended a final dividend of 12.5p pershare making a total of 20.9p per share for the year, anincrease of 2% over 2014.
Subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2016 to holders of ordinaryshares registered on22 April 2016.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
