Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 02 Chairmans introduction Restoring Balfour Beatty to strength 2015 is the year that Balfour Beatty began making the changes that are necessary to restore the business to strength.
Once again the financial results are disappointing, reflecting the legacy issues which have scarred Balfour Beatty in recent years.
However, despite these problems Balfour Beatty retains one of the strongest balance sheets in the sector, supportive clients, a dedicated workforce and growing core markets providing a solid platform from which to turn around our business.
Performance With new governance and controls introduced across the business, Balfour Beatty is repositioning, withdrawing from certain types of work and focusing on the more profitable opportunities.
As we do so, wehave seen a small reduction in underlying revenues 2% and order book 4%.
However, as you would expect, the quality of new orders we have chosen tobid for and won has improved.
The underlying loss from continuing operations was 106 million losses in Construction Services of 229 million were largely caused by historic issues in W hilst much remains to be the UK, US and Middle East.
Support Services profits of 24 million reflect, in part, the point in the regulatory done, I am confident that we cycle of some of its major customers.
The Investments business continued to perform havein place the right foundations strongly.
The portfolio was valued at 1.24 billion.
We continue to invest in new opportunities and realise andthe right management to value at the point where we believe it is in the optimum interest of shareholders to do so.
The portfolio provides deliverthe long-term success unique balance to the Group and means that Balfour Beatty maintains one of the strongest balance sheets ofthebusiness.
Build to Last Our annual report for 2014 set out Balfour Beattys selfhelp transformation plan Build to Last.
In this years report, we are able to provide you with more detail about how the plan has been rolled out across the business: the difference it is making: and the progress we have made to deliver our initial, Phase One targets of 200 million cash in and 100 million cost out over 24 months.
We are on course to meet these targets.
Management of the business has been strengthened with a new leadership team and an organisation re-aligned with key customer segments.
The Build to Last programme is gaining traction throughout the business, demonstrated by the significant improvement in the Groups cash performance this year.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 03 Markets Contracting is an inherently dangerous industry: it is Importantly, we are continuing to win new business therefore incumbent from the Board to the newest across our core markets the order book is worth apprentice joining the firm to understand the risks 11.0 billion.
Our new work is not business which is and take action to mitigate and prevent accidents.
being bought at the expense of future profitability, Safety is one of our core Build to Last goals with our but good business won on better terms across objective being Zero Harm.
The new Board Safety and our operations.
Sustainability Committee assesses serious incidents to review that we are doing all we can to ensure that our Against a backdrop of rising markets, our customers workers, suppliers, subcontractors and members of the recognise the expertise that exists within Balfour public with whom we interact are kept safe.
That is why we are selected for jobs such as the Thames Tideway tunnel, the Smart Across our business, four people working for Balfour Motorways work on the M5, M6 and M4 and the Beatty died during 2015.
A fifth was killed in Aberdeen Bergstrom Expressway, to name just a few.
Words are inadequate to express my regret that there are five families mourning their loved The Board ones.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to formally I joined the Board on 26 March, one of five new Board send our condolences and give an assurance that we members in 2015.
Strengthening the Board has been will do all we can to prevent future accidents.
akey priority for me since my appointment.
Dividend Leo Quinn joined as Group Chief Executive on By the end of 2016, Balfour Beatty will have achieved 1 January, the transformation plan he started its Phase One targets: costs are coming down and cash implementing from day one was outlined in the 2014 flow has improved substantially, such that the Board report.
Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, took up expects to reinstate the dividend, at an appropriate his appointment in June.
Philip was previously Group level, at the interim results in August 2016.
Finance Director at Hogg Robinson Group plc.
Prior to which, he was Group Finance Director at VT Group.
Conclusion Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty joined as nonAs you will read in this report, this has been a year of executive Directors.
Stephen has immense experience significant and necessary change at Balfour Beatty.
of different industries, including construction and Whilst much remains to be done, I am confident that support services, both from the supplier and the client we have in place the right foundations and the right side, as well as having a strong background in finance management to deliver the long-term success of the in several complex organisations.
Stuart is the former business and one which can provide our customers, Chief Executive of engineering company Costain plc, employees and shareholders with superior returns.
and has 45 years of highly relevant, in-depth experience in the construction industry.
We have also had four retirements from the Board during the year: my predecessor, Steve Marshall, Duncan Magrath, Robert Amen and Peter Zinkin.
Quite remarkably Peter joined the business in 1981 and Philip Aiken AM I wish to thank him, Duncan, Robert and Steve for their Chairman time at Balfour Beatty.
Our people Balfour Beatty is a people business and I am proud of the expertise, enthusiasm and dedication that I see from so many of our colleagues.
2015 has been an unprecedented year of change at Balfour Beatty and the early successes and importantly the continued focus on delivering for our clients is a result of the dedication of so many colleagues.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for thecommitment they have demonstrated this year.
