52 Chairmans address Good governance supporting business change.
I am delighted that our established governanceframework has supported both the integration of our new Chief Executive Officer and the development of our new strategy.
Iain Ferguson Chairman Our goal is to be at the forefront of best What good governance Included in this report: practice in corporate governance and meansto us we consistently challenge ourselves 61 Leadership 2015 has been a year of significant to achieve this.
Our governance Key details on our board and senior change for Berendsen at board management team framework allows for the continued level.
This was the result of both the monitoring, review, development Our governance framework and how appointment of James Drummond, and implementation of the policies, it supports the development of good as our new Chief Executive Officer to governance practices procedures and culture that support our replace Peter Ventress, and the ongoing high governance standards.
Our boards key achievements during 2015 review of our strategy which led to the announcement of our new strategic Board achievements in 2015 63 Effectiveness approach in November.
Our ability to deal with change of this magnitude is Our three-year approach to performance Strategic review evaluations and the outcome of the boards due in no small part to the governance I reported last year that the board had 2014 and 2015 evaluations structures which have been developed commenced a strategy refresh process over the years to support the effective Our nomination committees report on and that this would continue during 2015. its key activities in the year including the operation of the board and the business The timetable was obviously impacted appointment of our new CEO as a whole.
by the change of our Chief Executive Officer, and the process was placed on I have previously reported to you that 66 Relations with shareholders hold until James took up the role of Chief corporate governance at Berendsen An overview of our shareholder engagement Executive Officer.
We were delighted is treated as a core and vital discipline activities during the year including: to be able to conclude a thorough complementing our desire to continually a Remuneration policy consultation review of our strategy during the year, improve upon the success of the the result of which was presented to group on behalf of our shareholders.
a Shareholder meetings investors at a Capital Markets Day held This remains the case.
The governance a Details of our 2016 AGM on 19 November 2015. framework described in this report is well established, and our Executive Board 71 Accountability continues to ensure that our approach Our audit committees report on its key is effectively implemented across the activities during the year including: whole business.
I am pleased to report a Monitoring the effectiveness of our risk that James shares the boards longmanagement and internal control systems held view of the importance of strong a Approving the viability statement process governance systems, and the board as a whole continues to believe that effective a Conducting a review of the effectiveness of governance is achieved through the external auditor leadership and collaboration, resulting in consistently focused and sensible business decisions.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of our groups governance with me, please feel free to email me at chairman@berendsen.
eu Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 53 I was particularly pleased with the This handover period formed part of I have continued the approach of holding boards input into the strategy review the induction process that I designed a number of board dinners during the process, with all directors bringing for James with the assistance of our year, usually ahead of a scheduled ideas and suggestions based on their Company Secretary and the nomination board meeting.
We have found that the backgrounds and experience, and committee, and which is described in dinners provide a more relaxed forum providing challenge to management detail on page 55. than the formal meetings in which suggestions where appropriate.
additional debate between directors In our announcement to the market of on complex matters can be conducted.
Having agreed the new strategic James appointment, I highlighted my As a result, I nd that the debate at approach, described in detail in the belief that James has the right skills and the following formal meeting is usually Strategic report on pages 1 to 15, the experience to lead Berendsen in the more focused, with well-formulated board now has a key leadership role in next phase of its development, and we constructive views espoused by the nonsupporting its successful implementation are already seeing this borne out in his executive directors.
in 2016 and beyond, to ensure that we significant input into our new strategic continue to deliver exceptional standards approach.
I am confident that James will On 18 December, I held my annual to customers, and long-term sustainable continue the tradition of strong executive scheduled meeting with the nonvalue to shareholders.
I am delighted executive directors without the executive that the strong working relationship management present.
We had a Change of Chief Executive Officer between Chairman and Chief Executive full discussion looking back at the We were of course sad to say goodbye Officer has continued since James took boards activities in 2015 and forward to Peter Ventress following his decision on the role, with James and I already to our priorities in 2016.
In particular, to retire as Chief Executive Officer.
working closely together due to both the we discussed the appointment and Peter has made a significant contribution handover from Peter and the ongoing induction of James Drummond, the to the success of our business, and strategy review process.
performance evaluation process, and provided excellent leadership over the implementation of the new strategy.
the six years of his tenure.
After Peter Board effectiveness Although the non-executive directors had informed me of his decision, we I am extremely conscious of my role did not raise anything that had not commenced a comprehensive search in ensuring that our non-executive previously been considered in meetings to identify his successor, led by the directors are provided with the of the whole board, we all found the nomination committee.
The search information, culture and environment session to be useful and agree that process is described in detail in the in which they are able to both support it is important for the independent nomination committees report on and offer constructive challenge, to directors to discuss their views in a more page 68. the executive management team.
I am delighted that our programme of We are delighted that James, who we non-executive director site visits has identied as the strongest candidate continued in 2015, and the feedback for the role, agreed to join Berendsen I have received from both the nonon 1 July to receive a comprehensive executive directors and the teams on site handover from Peter before taking on is that these visits are viewed positively the role of Chief Executive Officer from by all parties.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 54 Chairmans address continued Our goal is to be at the forefront of best practice in corporate governance and we consistently challenge ourselves to achieve this.
Performance evaluation Remuneration policy Our externally facilitated performance You will note from the UK Corporate evaluation conducted in the latter Governance Code compliance statement part of 2014 and early part of 2015 on page 55 that our remuneration confirmed that the board and its committee has conducted a full review committees operate effectively with of our remuneration policy during all directors contributing to the overall the course of 2015.
The remuneration success of the group.
In line with committee was keen to await the our three-year evaluation cycle, the nalisation of the strategy review so that performance evaluation process in 2015 any amendments to the policy could was led by me with assistance from the be matched to our strategy.
this is complete, I am pleased that our revised policy will be put to shareholders I felt that the positive nature of the for approval at the AGM in 2016, and external evaluation from the previous I would like to thank members of the year allowed us to conduct a more remuneration committee for their efforts focused evaluation this year, and I in developing these proposals.
was particularly keen to establish the boards view on the appointment and Meeting our major shareholders induction process adopted for James.
We have continued to operate a I also wanted to understand whether comprehensive investor relations the non-executive directors agreed with programme during the year with my view that our strong governance our executive directors meeting culture has continued following James investors and analysts regularly, being Board priorities in 2016 appointment.
supported where appropriate by both myself and David Lowden as Senior a Support the implementation of the The performance evaluation process is Independent Director.
In addition to new strategy described in detail on page 63, and Im the regular programme of investor delighted to confirm that no significant a Continue to develop and maintain and analyst updates and presentations issues were raised and that the general best practice standards in described on page 66, David and I consensus of the board is that the corporate governance also hosted a shareholder dinner on governance structure, the board and 26 November which was attended by a Support the further development its committees continue to operate five of our major shareholders.
We again of talent and succession planning effectively, and the positive culture on received positive feedback and see the board has been maintained.
a Participate and assist with the the dinner as a valuable opportunity to review of the groups advisers understand the views of, and develop constructive relationships with, our major shareholders.
Iain Ferguson Chairman Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 55 CEO induction Elements of the induction process a Meeting with the Group Director, All new directors joining the Berendsen designed for James, by the Chairman Human Resources on the culture board undertake a formal and and the Company Secretary, who took and diversity of the group including personalised induction programme into account feedback from Maarit succession planning procedures: which covers: the operation and Aarni-Sirvi on her own induction in a Discussions with the Group Risk activities of the group including 2014, included: Manager on the principal risks facing site visits and meeting members a Meeting with major shareholders on the group, Head of Internal Audit and of the senior management teams : 28 July 2015 and attending other the Group Tax and Treasury Director: the groups principal risks and shareholder analyst events: uncertainties: the role of the board a Meeting key group advisers: and the decision-making matters a Meeting with members of the board, a Reviewing investor feedback reports reserved to it: the responsibilities of the Executive Board and business line with the Chairman and Senior board committees: and the strategic management teams: Independent Director to understand challenges and opportunities facing a Site visits to facilities in all of the shareholder requirements: the group.
countries in which Berendsen a Full brieng on our main international James Drummond joined Berendsen operates: competitors by Peter Ventress and on 1 July 2015 to begin his induction our advisers: and process, a significant part of which was a comprehensive handover from a Discussions with the Chairman, Peter Peter Ventress.
UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement We are delighted that we have received several external accolades A new version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code was introduced in September for our governance and remuneration 2014, and the revised provisions apply to Berendsen for the first time in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015.
We have complied with all of the principles and provisions of the Code reporting during the year.
throughout 2015, with the exception of provision D. 1.1 which requires that performance-related a Nominated for and won the ICSA remuneration schemes should include both malus and clawback provisions.
Awards 2015: Best Annual Report Following the completion of the strategy review, our remuneration committee conducted a review inthe FTSE 250 of our remuneration policy which is described in detail on pages 78 to 80.
Our revised policy, including amendments to our long-term incentive and bonus plans to introduce both malus and a Nominated for ICSA Awards 2015: clawback provisions, is being proposed for shareholder approval at our 2016 AGM.
Subject to Best Strategic Report in the such approval, we will be in full compliance with provision D. 1.1, and therefore expect to be in full compliance with the Code, from 28 April 2016.
FTSE 250 The corporate governance statement and the additional governance disclosures listed in the table a Nominated for Building Public below set out our approach to applying the Code.
Trust Awards 2015: Executive See our business model, value generation Remuneration in the FTSE 250 andstrategy in our Strategic report See our Directors remuneration report Pages 0115 Pages 78104 a Nominated for Building Public Trust See our approach to risk management and Awards 2015: Corporate Governance internal control in our Risk report See our Directors report Reporting in the FTSE 250 Pages 2431 Pages 105108 Key areas of uncertainty considered in the preparation of the financial statements Page 72 Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
