BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement I believe that Berkeley has the right plan in place to deliver long-term sustainable success.
TONY PIDGLEY CBE CHAIRMAN 90p 1.7billion Per share interim dividend To be returned in cash payable in September 2015 to shareholders by 2021 I am pleased to announce pre-tax profits We are acutely aware of the importance The Board has declared a further for the Berkeley Group of 539.7 million to our society of all forms of tenure for interim dividend of 90 pence per share for the year ended 30 April 2015.
This new housing and welcome the vision of 122.9 million, payable on 17 September result underlines the benefit of operating Government, the Greater London Authority 2015 to shareholders on the register on the right strategy consistently through and local councils to increase the number 14 August 2015.
This will complete the the cycle.
By maintaining our financial of new homes built.
For Berkeley it is first milestone of paying 434 pence per discipline Berkeley can apply its unique equally important to ensure that we are share by 30 September 2015.
The Board operating model to develop sites which are market leaders in terms of the quality of considers that the Group is well positioned complex and where others may perceive the places and homes we create.
to meet the remaining milestones of that the risk is too great, and in doing so, 433 pence by September 2018 and 433 We welcome the stability in Central we unlock land for new homes that would pence by September 2021.
Government following the General Election not otherwise come forward.
and the commitment to increase housing In closing, I would like to express my thanks Berkeley accepts this additional operational supply, but political uncertainty remains to my colleagues in Berkeley for their risk which is managed carefully and with the London Mayoral Election and dedication and hard work in delivering this intensively to create sustainable added referendum on Britains relationship with strong performance.
I firmly believe that value returns.
Berkeley is a Berkeley has the right plan in place to deliver supporter of the UK remaining in Europe long-term sustainable success, a strategy Berkeley is delivering some 10% of all new as this is the best way for London to remain which can adapt to any changes in the homes in London and 10% of the Capitals a world city.
There is no doubt, however, market to protect the business, in what is a affordable homes across our 74 sites.
that for business to thrive, we must not cyclical market, and continue to deliver value This creates economic value of 1.4 billion be bound by over-regulation, be this from to shareholders and the community alike.
In addition, our own Government or from Europe.
we remain committed to increase site-based Tony Pidgley CBE apprenticeships and training to help address Chairman the skills shortage which our industry faces.
