Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Booker Group plc has delivered another good performance I am pleased to report that Booker Basic earnings per share were 6.73 Outlook Group plc has delivered another good pence, up from 6.06 pence last The Groups trading in the first seven performance.
Given the strong operational weeks of the current financial year March 2015 sales rose by 1.5% to performance and cash flow of the is ahead of last year.
However, we 4.8bn and operating profit before business the Board recommends the anticipate that the challenging consumer exceptional items of 140.3m was up payment of a final dividend of 3.14 and market environment will persist 17%.
Customer satisfaction continued pence per share 2014: 2.75 pence per through the coming year and the UKs to improve, once again achieving best share which, together with the interim food market remains very competitive.
The financial performance dividend, makes a total dividend for the was good and the Group ended the year of 3.66 pence per share 2014: 3.20 Whilst there is increasing price financial year with net cash of 147.0m.
The final dividend is competition in the UK grocery and The drive into the catering market is payable on 10 July 2015 to shareholders discount sectors, we will continue to working, with Booker like-for-like total on the register on 12 June 2015. deliver our plans to offer our customers sales to caterers excluding Makro up even better choice, prices and service by 2.0%.
Booker like-for-like total sales In addition to the final dividend, the supported by the continued delivery to retailers excluding Makro increased Board is recommending a special of our efficiency programmes.
capital return to shareholders of 3.50 are on track to deliver an outcome pence per ordinary share at a cost for the new financial year in line with The plans to Broaden the business of approximately 62m, based on the our plans and to make progress in this are going well.
In the 52 weeks to 27 current issued share capital of the challenging environment.
This follows the capital of product to our customers premises return of 3.50 pence per share to Annual General Meeting versus 1.3bn last year as we continue shareholders in July 2014.
We currently Our Annual General Meeting will be held to expand our delivered service.
Booker anticipate returning a similar amount to on 8 July 2015.
The notice of Annual Direct, Chef Direct, Classic and Rittershareholders in July 2016.
General Meeting and a circular setting Courivaud, our specialist delivered out further details of the proposed businesses, remain on track.
Internet Having been Chairman of Blueheath return of capital, which itself requires sales were 874m compared to 777m Plc, which merged with Booker in 2007, shareholder approval, will be issued to in the previous year and sales at Booker and then Chairman of the combined shareholders in due course.
India are making good progress.
Group, I have been in the Chair for nine years.
During this time there has been Makro has made a good contribution considerable progress by the Group.
We now have everybody Given the strength of the Group, I feel it is operating on common systems a good time to move on.
I will step down Richard Rose and have eleven combined Makro at the AGM in keeping with corporate Chairman Booker business centres which are governance best practice, and I wish the performing well.
Company the best for the years ahead.
I should like to thank all our colleagues The process to identify my successor for their contribution to the success of is well underway and an update will the Group in the year just ended.
