Chairmans statement Overview The Group is well positioned 2015 was a year of considerable challenge for the Group.
Mixed and has exciting prospects going macro-economic conditions persisted throughout the year in many of the countries in which we operate.
We have developed aerospace markets remained in growth mode, but this was not enough to offset the revenue dip, particularly in the energy and a strong, high performance general industrial sectors.
culture serving a wide range of I am, however, very pleased to report that the Group, under the stewardship of Stephen Harris and his executive team, successfully international customers, with navigated the business through these tough conditions and we a committed workforce and remain in a strong financial position.
Dividend absolute integrity in our operating The Board considers the dividend to be an important component procedures.
of shareholder returns and is proposing a final ordinary dividend of 10.3p, an increase of 5.1%, which will be paid on 3 June 2016, subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
This brings the total ordinary dividend for 2015 to 15.1p A. M. Thomson l Chairman 2014: 14.4p costing 28.7m which represents a year-on-year increase of 4.9%.
Recognising the net cash position of the Group the Board is, for the third successive year, recommending a supplemental distribution by way of a special dividend, also payable on 3 June 2016, amounting to 10.0p per share 2014: 20.0p costing 19.0m 2014: 38.1m.
Governance and reporting One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to promote effective governance across the Group thus ensuring that we remain a successful and sustainable entity with good governance procedures practised across all 24 countries in which the Group operates.
To enable shareholders to understand how this goal is achieved we have provided a corporate governance statement on page 38 of this Annual Report.
This describes how the governance structure underpins the delivery of the Groups business strategy.
On page 24 we have also outlined the principal risks that may prevent the business from achieving its objectives and the actions being taken to overcome these potential obstacles.
During the year we commissioned an external evaluation of the Boards performance.
The findings confirmed that the Board is well balanced with a diverse mix of skills and experience and is performing effectively.
Nevertheless the report indicates that there is scope for improvement and we shall be working to ensure that the governance is further improved in 2016.
02 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Hand-in-hand with good governance goes transparent reporting, Shareholders and during 2015 we have made further changes to the Annual During the year I met with a number of Bodycotes largest Report to ensure that this is achieved.
This includes a viability shareholders and received positive feedback from them on their statement, which can be found on page 27 of this Annual Report views of the Group.
In the coming year I will maintain this valuable and also a complete listing of the Groups subsidiary undertakings.
dialogue and also look forward to meeting as many shareholders In part these are mandated by changes in UK reporting regulation, as possible at this years AGM in May, when there will be an others arise through changes to the UK Corporate Governance opportunity to discuss the Groups business and future prospects code, and sometimes by proactively adopting best practice as it with Board members.
Summary The drive for ongoing improvement in environmental and The performance of the Group was resilient throughout 2015.
This safety reporting is described in the Corporate responsibility and reflects the decisive cost actions taken in the face of weak market sustainability section of this Annual Report on pages 28 to 34. conditions, together with the delivery of an improved business mix.
It should be noted that these topics now make up a material part The Group is well positioned and has exciting prospects going of each management committee and Board meeting.
We have developed a strong, high-performance culture Board matters serving a wide range of international customers, with a committed It is the responsibility of every Board to ensure that there is an workforce and absolute integrity in our operating procedures.
The appropriate succession plan in place across the business, including long-term prospects for the Group are encouraging and I remain for the Board of Directors.
This is integral to the successful delivery confident that these should ensure an attractive return for both our of the Group strategy and underpins the effectiveness of the Board.
employees and our shareholders over the coming years.
During the year the Nomination Committee performed an in-depth review of its Board succession plan.
A. M. Thomson Raj Rajagopal, the Senior Independent Director, who joined the Chairman Board in September 2008, will retire after the 2016 AGM.
His wise 25 February 2016 counsel has been invaluable throughout the whole period of Group transformation.
We thank him for his contribution over the last eight years and wish him well for the future.
We have engaged Zygos Partners, a firm of international search consultants, to work with us to identify a new non-executive director.
We will report to shareholders on progress as appropriate.
Ian Duncan, who is a qualified Chartered Accountant, joined the Board in November 2014 and assumed the Chair of the Audit Committee after the 2015 AGM.
Ian is a highly experienced independent director having served a number of international companies in both executive and non-executive Board positions over the last 15 years.
I am pleased to report that Ian will become our Senior Independent Director following the 2016 AGM in May.
David Landless, the Group Finance Director, has informed the Board of his intention to retire as a director of the Board.
David has agreed to remain with the Group to ensure a smooth handover to his successor and he will oversee the publication of the Groups 2016 full year results if the handover has not been completed ahead of this date.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank David for his dedication and exceptional service to the Group over many years and we wish him all the best in the next stage of this career as he grows his non-executive director portfolio.
People Whilst Bodycote has become a large Group operating on a global basis, we have tried to maintain the agility of a smaller company, with a flat organisational structure and clear lines of responsibility, thus enabling us to provide a fast and efficient service to our customers.
Bodycote is a first-class service business, our employees are our ambassadors, and with their continued commitment and professionalism we can achieve our ambitious plans.
I would like to thank each and every one of them for their enthusiasm, hard work and commitment throughout 2015.
Despite the improvement in the overall performance of safety across the Group it is with great regret that I have to report that one of our employees was seriously injured in an accident at a facility in North America in October 2015 and, as a result of these injuries, the employee died on 17 February 2016.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
