Chairmans letter We are prepared and well positioned to respond to the volatile environment as we move through 2016.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Dear fellow shareholder, 2015 has been another challenging year: oil prices have remained low, falling by more than 50% and our industry finds itself in a position not seen for some 30 years.
This sustained low price is a result, not of lack of demand, but of oversupply.
However, our work in reconfiguring BP following the incident in the Gulf of Mexico has meant that we were prepared and well positioned to respond to this volatile environment as we move through 2016.
Shareholders and distributions We have maintained our dividend during the year and remain committed to growing sustainable free cash flow and shareholder distributions over the long term.
I believe that our current financial framework can support these commitments.
The board considers shareholder distributions in the context of how to achieve long-term growth and value creation.
In the current weaker price environment, our aim is to rebalance our sources and uses of cash to ensure we cover capital expenditure and a shareholder distributions with operating cash flow.
This will enable BP to continue to develop its business while maintaining safe and reliable operations.
We anticipate that all the actions we are taking will capture more deflation and drive the point of rebalance to below $60 per barrel.
The board will keep all of this under review and will make any adjustments to our financial framework as circumstances require.
Strategy The proposed consent decree with the United States federal government and settlements with the US Gulf states are an important step.
It has enabled us to look at the future with greater confidence.
However the current price environment continues to be a cause for concern and so we have set a financial path for the next two years.
This medium-term strategy is based on optimizing our deployment and allocation of capital and the continuing simplification of our business while maintaining our commitment to safety and reliability.
Our financial results over the year demonstrated the benefit from the integration of our upstream and downstream activities.
We have a strong, refocused and rebalanced portfolio $7.3bn based on our distinctive capabilities which we believe will enable us to withstand lower dividends to BP shareholders prices.
In the future, we will continue to invest in a balanced range of resources and geographies across the Upstream and Downstream to enable us to achieve long-term growth.
We have recently published our BP Energy Outlook.
I believe this makes an important contribution to the discourse and debate in this area.
As the world continues to develop % 7.5 economically then oil, and increasingly gas, will be needed for the foreseeable future.
This ordinary shareholders annual dividend yield is the core of our business.
Overall we keep under review the broader strategic direction of the group as the market for our products evolves and the energy landscape starts to change.
2015 has seen increased focus on climate change.
BP has consistently argued for a price on carbon and recognized the part we all must play in being part of the solution.
However % 7.7 governments must take the lead in developing policies to reduce carbon emissions and we continue to engage in this debate.
The UN conference on climate change has produced ADS shareholders annual dividend yield 6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report Board performance some clear results and I am proud of the part that Bob has played in leading the initiative For information about the board and its within our industry.
At our last AGM in April the board was pleased to support a resolution committees see page 55. brought by a group of our shareholders that encouraged greater disclosure of our work in this area: our evolving response to this is set out in our Sustainability Report due for Remuneration publication this March.
For information about our directors remuneration see page 76.
Oversight The world continues to be a troubled place and the risks faced by BP are ever evolving.
The board keeps under review its approach to the monitoring of risk as demonstrated by the boards oversight of cybersecurity and the sharpened focus on geopolitical risk through the formation of the geopolitical committee.
This is complemented by the work of our international advisory board.
As we progress with our litigation in the US, we expect to stand down the Gulf of Mexico committee during 2016 and I would like to thank my colleagues for the important work and focus they have given to this committee over the past five years.
Oversight of the continuing litigation will fall to the full board.
Governance and succession Membership of the board has continued to be refreshed and during the year Paula Reynolds and Sir John Sawers joined us as non-executive directors.
Paula brings deep experience from the financial and energy worlds, while John brings long experience of international politics and security that are so important to our business.
Professor Dame Ann Dowling has taken the chair of the remuneration committee in anticipation of Antony Burgmans standing down from the board after twelve years.
Antony has chaired the remuneration committee and is also chairing the newly formed geopolitical committee until April when Sir John Sawers will succeed him.
Phuthuma Nhleko, who joined the board in 2011, has decided not to offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM due to external business commitments.
On behalf of the board I thank Antony and Phuthuma for the substantial contribution that they have made to all of our work.
In 2015 Bob and his executive team have worked determinedly to steer the business through some difficult times with some tough decisions.
They have met every challenge and as a result the business is in robust shape as we go into 2016.
They deserve our thanks as do all our employees.
I would like to thank the board for all that they have done.
Top: The safety, ethics and environmental assurance committee SEEAC examine safety And I would like to thank our shareholders for your continued support.
We are set to measures at our operations in the Khazzan field continue supplying energy to help meet global demand while delivering value to you from in Oman.
Bottom: SEEAC members meeting crew on the Cassia platform in Trinidad and Tobago where they inspected the safety of operations.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 4 March 2016 a See Our financial framework on page 19.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 7
