Chairmans statement We saw a steady rise in house prices throughout 2015 and the early signs in 2016 remain positive.
The current constraints in the availability of skilled labour in the industry remains the major short term operational challenge for the industry as a whole.
We are focused on further developing the quality of our own construction teams and working closely in partnership with our suppliers and sub contractors.
Across the country we are working hard to bring new people into the sector to address the shortage.
Operational and capital effectiveness The Board recognises the inevitable challenges the Group faces as we progress through the growth phase of our plans and are Ian Tyler focused on delivering a high level of operational effectiveness Chairman across the enlarged business.
We have further developed our management structures during the year to support an increase in volumes towards our targeted steady state of between During last year Bovis Homes made good 5,000 and 6,000 new homes each year and I have every progress against its ambitious strategic plan.
confidence in our ability to deliver that ambition.
We continue I am pleased to report that, once again, to invest in our people and with two additional operating through delivering a record volume of homes, regions in place from the start of 2016 we are able to apply the Group has driven growth in revenue greater management focus across our operating area.
We recognise that our success depends on safely building leading to a 21% increase in earnings per quality homes on time for our customers.
share and achieving our targeted growth in return on capital employed.
I am pleased to confirm that the Group has made further improvements in shareholder returns in 2015.
Combining a capital turn which exceeded one times for the first time with Growth strategy supported by a robust market an improvement in operating margin, the Group achieved its Our strategic plan, first communicated during 2014, remains target return on capital employed for 2015 at 18.3%.
The Board continues to review conditions in the The increased size of the land bank including our valuable UK housing market as we progress through the cycle and strategic holdings highlights the strong position of the Group we believe that the key factors which supported the positive for 2016.
The Group has between four and five years of market conditions in 2015 remain in place.
owned consented land supply and this is supported by over Whilst the UK financial markets have seen the impact of five years of supply of strategic land for future delivery.
growing uncertainty in the global economy, the fundamental The Group has retained the strength of its balance sheet lack of supply in the UK housing market and the current during 2015 with, once again, net cash at year end.
The Board strong demand from customers provides a robust back drop remains confident that, assuming a stable market, this will be to our growth strategy.
The Government support for the the base for further growth in capital turn, profitability, and housebuilding industry remains positive.
In particular the ultimately shareholder returns.
residential planning regime is ensuring that land supply to the market is ahead of production rates and the extension of the Dividends and earnings per share Help to Buy scheme provides confidence for our customers to Driven by a record number of new homes in 2015 and the invest in new homes.
The ongoing benign land market means ongoing trend of increasing average sales prices, the Group it is an excellent time to invest strongly in a disciplined manner.
delivered a 21% improvement in earnings per share to 95.4p.
Given the good progress made in 2015 and our ongoing Consistent with the period since 2010, our carefully targeted confidence in delivering the longer term strategic plan, as land investment has delivered significant future value into our previously indicated, a final dividend for 2015 of 26.3 pence consented land bank.
This investment has been concentrated per share will be recommended.
When combined with the on good quality sites in areas of strategic focus where we will interim dividend this provides a total dividend of 40 pence for be able to deliver our standard high quality Portfolio range of the year, an increase of 14% on 2014.
The final dividend will homes that our customers demand.
be payable on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 29 March 2016.
4 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Business overview | Strategic report Business overview Our positive investment in land has ensured we are well placed to further enhance value to our shareholders Brookfields Inkberrow The Board intends to recommend a progressive dividend for 2016 Warren, who stepped down from the Board this year, for his which is likely to again be ahead of our base dividend policy of service to Bovis Homes over many years both as a non-executive a regular payout ratio of one third of earnings per share.
In the director and as Audit Committee Chairman.
Ralph Findlay joined long term as we approach our planned steady state activity levels the Board during the year and has taken over chairmanship of and invest in land to replenish rather than grow our land bank, the Audit Committee.
I would also like to express my thanks to we expect to generate cash surplus to our requirements which will Jonathan Hill, our previous Group Finance Director, who left the further enhance cash returns for shareholders.
Group back in March after four years of valued service.
His successor, Earl Sibley, joined the Board in April 2015.
People The future I have continued to be impressed with the commitment and skill shown by the Groups employees in delivering the growth during While it has been a time of operational challenge with fast moving 2015 and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them all market conditions, the Board is confident that the Groups long for their dedication and hard work.
I would also like to extend my term growth plan remains appropriate in the current market and thanks to our subcontractors and suppliers who are such a key that our positive investment in land has ensured we are well placed component of our business.
to further enhance value to our shareholders.
The Board Ian Tyler I would like to thank my colleagues for another year of support Chairman and positive challenge.
In particular, I would like to thank John Bovis Homes Group PLC | 5
