BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans statement 04 Strategic Report BTG has reported another strong financial performance and is well positioned to deliver sustainable returns through investment in multiple growth drivers.
I am delighted to say the business has performed very well in 2014 15.
We have achieved a number of key milestones over the year and we are well positioned for sustainable growth.
Strong revenue growth has enabled us to make investments to expand our commercial footprint, develop our pipeline of innovative products and build a portfolio of innovative and patient-centric products.
Within Interventional Medicine, a new, dedicated US sales force commenced selling Varithena, our novel varicose veins treatment, in August 2014.
We expanded our European sales force for TheraSphere, the radiation therapy for liver cancer, from three to 25 people and subsequently started selling DCBead for the treatment of liver tumours, through the same sales force in April 2015.
DC Bead was approved in China, and we started selling the product directly in Taiwan.
We have had a very good year, In January 2015 we completed the acquisition of executing our growth strategy and PneumRx, Inc. which makes the RePneu Coil system, building the organisational capability aminimally invasive treatment for advanced emphysema.
PneumRx offers an exciting growth opportunity and expands and capacity to deliver sustainable, our expertise into Interventional Pulmonology, an emerging profitable growth.
Currently available in Europe, this product also has significant potential in the US through a fully recruited pivotal clinical trial that could lead to marketing approval in late 2016.
Garry Watts Chairman We also invested in our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business tomaintain our leadership position in rescue therapies.
InOctober 2014 we settled our patent action against parties webelieved were infringing our patent on the US snakebite treatment CroFab, removing uncertainty for our investors and allowing us to concentrate on continuing to deliver this first-class treatment to our customers and their patients.
Further details of operating progress during the year are provided throughout the strategic review and the performanceagainst our corporate objectives is described onpages 16 to 19.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 Strategic Report BTG share price performance vs FTSE 250 index in pence 700 400 100 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 BTG FTSE 250 Index Source: Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of 100 invested in BTG plc on 31 March 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Governance Outlook Achieving high standards of governance is fundamental The healthcare industry is competitive.
Our strategy for tothesuccessful growth of our business.
During the year, success is to find specialist areas where we can become weacquired PneumRx and have rapidly incorporated that acommercial and technological leader by delivering business into our governance framework.
We have also clinicallyproven, differentiated treatment options to paidparticular attention to the geographic expansion specialistphysicians and underserved patient populations.
ofthebusiness, to ensure uniform standards apply This approach has led us to become a leading provider of whereverwe operate.
rescue medicines and it is now enabling us to become a leaderin Interventional Medicine, where favourable macro The governance performance of the Board was evaluated trends and our investment strategy support the growth of byindependent consultants during the year.
We have made ourportfolio of innovative and patient-centric products.
good progress in areas we identified for improvement at the time of the last evaluation three years ago, and we have new This is an exciting time for BTG.
As we implement our organic areas to focus on.
Further details can be found in the growth plans in Interventional Medicine, we are continuing Corporate Governance Report on pages 37 to 78. toseek new opportunities that complement our existing platforms and capabilities to ensure the sustainable, Oversight of our risk management processes remains profitable growth of our business.
We provide an update on our approach and the keyareas of focus in the Risk Report on pages 33 to 36.
Garry Watts Chairman Strong leadership and dedicated employees Our company has changed significantly over recent yearsaswe have grown organically and through acquisition.
Thesuccessful transformation of our business to date is aresult of the hard work, enthusiasm and dedication of our employees.
My thanks go to them and to our shareholders, who have continued to support the business through a period of investment and growth.
I would also like to thank my Board colleagues and the Leadership Team for their guidance and oversight of the business, in particular Melanie Lee who has expanded her involvement with the Company as its first Chief Scientific Officer and as a consequence has retired from the Board afterfour years of service.
Dr Susan Foden joined the Board inMarch 2015.
Susan has an excellent track record in the fieldof Biotech and Healthcare and her extensive industry experience will be a great asset to BTG.
