Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overview Chairmans introduction Excellent underlying performance Your Company continued to perform very strongly in 2015, despite challenging conditions persisting across many markets Richard Burrows Chairman 04 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements That is why, in addition to our continued Welcome to our Annual Report for Board changes investment in our traditional brands, our 2015.
Your Company continued I am pleased to report that we maintain high growth markets, our systems and our our strong record on Board diversity, both toperform very strongly in 2015, people, we developed our Sustainability in terms of gender and in the wide range despite challenging conditions Agenda, focusing on tobacco harm reduction, ofrelevant backgrounds and nationalities sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods, persisting across many markets.
This ensures we At constant rates of exchange, the Group There are two proposed changes to the Board have an ongoing focus on the matters which delivered adjusted diluted earnings of 229.1p which will take effect from the conclusion of have the most relevance for our stakeholders per share, an increase of 10.1% on 2014. the forthcoming AGM.
Karen fide Segundo and consequently the future health of has indicated that she will be retiring from our business.
Reported adjusted diluted earnings were the Board at the end of this years AGM 208.4p per share, an increase of 0.1% on Our 2015 activities in these areas are covered on 27 April 2016, having served for eight 2014 as our excellent underlying performance in greater depth within our Sustainability years on the Board, nearly seven of which was offset by the impact of currency Summary report, which can be read as Chairman of the Corporate and Social fluctuations on our reported results.
You can download this report Responsibility Committee.
Dr Richard from our corporate website at www.
com We also delivered outstanding overall market Tubb will also retire from the Board at the sustainability.
share growth of over 40 bps across our Key conclusion of the AGM, having served as a Markets, driven by the excellent performance Non-Executive Director since January 2013.
Strategic investments in of our Global Drive Brands which grew by tobacco and beyond 8.5% and increased adjusted operating profit, The right strategy for at constant rates of exchange, by 4%.
Our commitment to delivering long-term asustainable future value to our shareholders extends beyond Reflecting on the success of 2015, let me We aim to consistently deliver investments in existing businesses and driving express my thanks and appreciation to shareholder value operational efficiencies.
In 2015, we also my fellow Directors on the Board, to our completed a number of investments and We remain very confident in our future.
Chief Executive, Nicandro Durante, to strategic partnerships which enhance our As such we are proposing a 4% increase in the management and to all our colleagues across opportunities for future growth.
final dividend to 104.6p per share.
the total dividend for 2015 to 154.0p.
We completed the acquisition of TDR in Looking to the future, I am confident that Croatia, the leading independent cigarette If approved at our Annual General Meeting we have the right strategic focus, people manufacturer in Central Europe.
We acquired AGM, the final dividend will be paid on and resources to deliver continued growth the rest of the shares in our Brazilian 5 May 2016 to shareholders on the register intheyears ahead.
subsidiary, Souza Cruz, not currently owned on 18 March 2016. by the Group and fide-listed the company.
Richard Burrows Sustainable growth We also concluded the investment of Chairman US$4.7 billion to maintain our 42% stake For us, sustainability is not a choice or in the enlarged, and substantially stronger, something that is nice to have, it is crucial to Reynolds American Inc. following its purchase securing the future of our business by creating Download our Sustainability Summary report at of Lorillard Inc. shared value for consumers, our customers www.
com sustainability and our shareholders.
In addition, further signalling our commitment to leading in Next Generation Products, we signed a vapour products technology-sharing agreement with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and completed the acquisition of the CHIC Group, the market-leading Vapour Product e-cigarette business in Poland.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 05
