Strategic report | Chairmans statement Chairmans statement The strength and resilience of our business model combined with the execution of our consistent and proven strategy has once again delivered further growth.
efficiencies and savings, while at the same Results time freeing up working capital, improving Although challenging macroeconomic their distribution capabilities, reducing conditions persisted in many of the countries carbon emissions and simplifying their in which we operate, particularly in Latin internal administration.
America and Australasia, and difficult market conditions continued to affect some of the Acquisition activity continued at a record sectors we serve, I am pleased to report pace throughout 2015.
We acquired 22 another good set of results.
Overall currency businesses during the year with a total translation movements had a small positive committed spend of 327 million, thereby impact on the Groups revenue but reduced adding annualised revenue of 324 million.
the growth rates for profits and earnings These figures exclude Tillman which we at actual exchange rates by between 1% agreed to acquire in December 2014 and and 2%.
completed at the beginning of January 2015.
The acquisitions made in 2015 have Group revenue increased to 6,489.7 million helped to strengthen our position in many 2014: 6,156.5 million and adjusted of the markets that we serve and have operating profit before intangible also taken us into two new countries, amortisation and acquisition related costs Turkey and Austria.
We now have was 455.0 million 2014: 429.8 million.
Adjusted earnings per share were 91.0p 2014: 86.2p.
Investment At constant exchange rates revenue Both organic growth and acquisitions require increased by 5% and adjusted operating investment in the business to expand and profit rose by 7%.
The Group operating enhance its asset base.
During the year we margin improved from 6.9% to 7.0% at have continued to extend and improve our constant exchange rates with adjusted warehouses and open new ones, both as a earnings per share up 7% on the result of acquisitions and by consolidating same basis.
Systems are an important part of our ability to serve our customers in the most efficient and Dividend appropriate manner.
By continuously The Board is recommending a final upgrading our IT systems we are able to dividend of 26.25p.
This brings the total increase the functionality of our operations, dividend for the year to 38.0p, up 7% thereby enhancing our customer offering.
Shareholders will Together this investment enables us to again have the opportunity to participate retain a competitive advantage and thereby in our dividend reinvestment plan.
maintain our leading position in the marketplace.
Strategy We have continued to pursue our longCorporate responsibility established and successful strategy of We continue to refine our sustainable developing the business through organic business processes and operations to ensure growth, consolidating our markets through improvements in this area.
However, we also focused acquisitions and continuously strive to assist both our customers and improving the efficiency of our operations.
suppliers to improve the sustainability of their businesses.
The nature of our business We seek to achieve organic growth by proposition, which allows our customers to applying our resources and expertise to consolidate both their purchasing enable customers to reduce or eliminate the requirements and product deliveries, is hidden costs of sourcing and distributing a environmentally friendly and, in addition, we broad range of goods not for resale.
As a offer a full range of environmentally friendly result they are able to focus on their core products.
During 2015, we once again business and run their operations more cost-effectively by achieving purchasing 04 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chairmans statement contacted our key suppliers to encourage Mike will be succeeded by Frank van Zanten Board them to adopt corporate responsibility who is currently the Managing Director of As reported in the 2014 Annual Report, Peter policies similar to ours.
Our quality the Continental Europe business area.
Johnson, who had served as a non-executive assurance quality control team based in Frank joined the Board at the beginning director since 2006 and was both Chairman Shanghai continues to refine our supplier of February and will assume his new role of the Remuneration Committee and senior audit process, undertaking audits of our upon Mikes retirement.
He has extensive independent director, retired from the Board key Asian suppliers to assist them in knowledge and experience of our business in April 2015.
David Sleath, who was meeting our required standards.
Integrity gained over many years and has a successful appointed as a non-executive director in is imperative in running our business and track record of implementing the Companys September 2007 and is Chairman of the building appropriate relationships and we strategy to develop and expand the Group.
Audit Committee, assumed the role of senior have recently refreshed our whistle blowing His appointment will provide continuity for independent director and Vanda Murray, who programme and renewed the corporate the business as well as its customers and joined the Board as a non-executive director responsibility training for all relevant employees going forward.
in February 2015, succeeded Peter as employees.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Philip Rogerson Chairman Employees As reported on 14 January 2016, after more 29 February 2016 Bunzls decentralised organisation structure than 10 years in the role, Michael Roney has decided to retire as Chief Executive of the encourages fast decision making at the local level.
This allows us to understand our Company.
He will stand down from his position and the Board following the customers needs and provide great service.
Many new people have joined Bunzl through conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 April 2016.
I would like to thank acquisitions during the past year and this provides us with a stream of new ideas to Mike for his outstanding contribution to Bunzl.
Under his careful stewardship the improve our business and strengthens our talent pipeline.
As a service oriented Group has gone from strength to strength and grown significantly with sustained company we continue to rely on the quality and efficiency of our employees across the increases in the Companys earnings, dividends and share price.
We very much appreciate their hard S ee our Corporate work and loyalty which are key to the ongoing the Board with our very best wishes and governance report on our sincere thanks and appreciation for growth and success of Bunzl.
