Strategic Report Introduction Chairmans Letter In the context of a dynamic year, Burberry delivers a strong performance for 2014 15.
I am pleased to report that Burberry has delivered a strong financial performance for 2014 15, with revenue of 2.5bn, up 11% underlying and adjusted profit before tax of 456m, up 7% underlying.
Against a challenging external environment and with rapidly changing consumer behaviour, Burberry has evolved and executed on its key strategies and initiatives.
Principal drivers of growth were the Companys continuing investment in retail and digital, as well as the global teams focus on our core products, the British-made Heritage trench coats and cashmere scarves.
Burberry continued to deliver robust growth during the year, reflecting the strength of the brand and its products, Sir John Peace underpinned by continued investment in key growth Chairman initiatives.
These included new stores in flagship markets, digital infrastructure improvements such as the upgraded mobile site and inventory fulfilment in China, and increased marketing, particularly focused on our flagship stores, iconic products and festive periods.
This Report sets out further detail on the progress made during the year across all our core strategies.
Dividend The Group ended the year with a 552m cash balance, and the Board has recommended a 10% increase in the full year dividend to 35.2p, a dividend payout ratio of 46% up from 42% last year.
Returns to shareholders remain a key priority for the Board and as stated in our Report last year, the aim is to move progressively to a 50% payout ratio over the three years to the 2016 17 financial year.
8 Strategic Report Introduction Management and Board changes Governance and diversity This has been a dynamic year for Burberry with Christopher As Chairman, I am committed to Burberry seeking to Baileys leadership fully embedded and a number of other operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
changes made to the Board as it continues to evolve for An independent evaluation was undertaken of the Board the future.
and our Committees during the year.
I am pleased to report that the results were positive and confirmed that the Board Christopher has set a clear vision for the evolution of operates effectively, in an open and collegiate manner.
the Groups strategic agenda to enable the Company to continue to innovate and move forward to achieve While all Board appointments are made on merit, the Board its future ambitions, while continuing to create value believes in the importance of a diverse Board and has for shareholders.
In this, he is supported by an excellent always had strong gender diversity among its membership, senior management team.
Female Board members currently comprise 33% of the Board, exceeding the goal During the year, in addition to supporting the management of25% set by Lord Davies in his review of the diversity in transition, the Board has continued to focus on building on Britains FTSE 100 boardrooms.
The Board will continue its relevant skills and competencies for the future under its tomonitor diversity and take such steps as it considers succession plan.
The composition of the Board has evolved appropriate to maintain Burberrys position as a significantly over the past two years with the appointment of meritocratic and diverse business.
four new non-executive directors, including the appointment of Carolyn McCall and Fabiola Arredondo during the year.
Our new strategy Build our Culture reflects our continuing These appointments bring important skills and experience commitment to building our unique culture and ensuring to the Board reflecting the Groups strategy.
that our values are reflected in everything we do.
Shareholder engagement Looking ahead The Boards dialogue with our shareholders has been Looking ahead to 2015 16, with the external environment akeyfocus during the year.
In particular the Board has becoming more uncertain in some markets since the start been reflecting carefully on the voting results of last years of the year, Burberry will continue to tightly control costs, Annual General Meeting.
While we received 84% of votes invest selectively to drive growth while embedding more infavour of the Groups remuneration policy, we were very productive and efficient processes throughout the disappointed that we did not receive majority support for business.
Key investments will include stores in flagship the advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Report.
markets, technology and continued digital enhancements.
Consequently, there has been significant engagement with our shareholders and other stakeholders on remuneration Finally, we recognise that our continued success is matters, as set out in detail in the Directors Remuneration dependent upon the hard work of our talented global teams Report on pages 81 to 103. and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them all for their efforts.
I would also like to thank our customers, shareholders and others who engage with the brand for their continued support.
