Chairmans review Cable & Wireless Communications is evolving into a more efficient, focused Group, putting customers at the heart of our business, served by a more robust network infrastructure.
This has been a transformational year for introducing a far greater level of operational Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE Cable & Wireless Communications CWC.
The management team has Chairman It was a year in which we completed the demonstrated its commitment to deliver refocus of our operation on the Caribbean and growth in revenue, maintain cost discipline Latin America: we successfully established a and improve our returns on capital, as well new operational hub in Miami and welcomed as beginning to transform the service our a new management team led by Phil Bentley, customers will receive.
We launched The benefits of our increased investments Project Marlin, our three-year plan to invest along with geographical focus have resulted more than US$1 billion in our networks to in improved network performance to support improve customer service, and at the end mobile data growth and improved Net of the year we completed the US$3 billion Promoter Scores NPS, with like-for-like acquisition of Columbus International Inc. a revenues increasing by 2%, reversing the transaction that has accelerated the execution trend experienced in recent years.
Each of of our strategy by dramatically expanding our our business units contributed positively.
In addition to financial targets, our senior Our new approach has begun to show positive management had well-defined personal results with early signs of a return to top line objectives concentrated on reshaping the revenue growth after a number of years of business and creating a platform for future decline in the region.
We are evolving into growth.
Moving from our old operating model a more efficient, focused Group, putting of a financial holding company, to one of customers at the heart of our business, served operational focus through the provision of by a more robust network infrastructure.
We greater direction from the Miami operational are executing against our vision to grow hub has streamlined the division of customer relationships and lifetime value by responsibilities to allow markets to largely delivering unparalleled customer experience, focus on serving their customers, whilst where our customers define excellence ensuring operational policies are implemented and we have been increasing our investment in a consistent way.
in the business to support this strategy.
The fundamental way we have reshaped the We continue to operate in a fiercely business in recent years has left us with a competitive environment and we still face financial position and operating platform that challenges from the difficult economies in we believe give us an excellent foundation for several Caribbean markets, intense mobile future growth.
CWC is becoming a stronger competition in Panama, and imminent Company better equipped to serve our liberalisation of the mobile market in customers with better products and services, The Bahamas.
accelerating the new strategy we outlined to An essential part of the plan is the substantial you last year.
increase in the level of investment in the Since taking up office a little over 12 months business over the next two years.
This ago, our Chief Executive Officer, Phil Bentley, investment is necessary to help us to compete and his team have built upon the establishment better and achieve our growth agenda.
Our of the operational hub in Miami through capital expenditure as a proportion of revenue 04 Cable & Wireless Communications Our mission: Connecting Communities...
Transforming Lives was higher this year, but the business has independent business and in establishing Miami This has been one of the most important already begun to see the benefit of the as the new operational hub.
chapters in CWCs long history.
It has been investment through improved revenues.
supported by all our team members with I also welcome Barbara Thoralfsson as an As we continue to accelerate investment in their hard work, dedication, energy and independent Non-executive Director who the business, the Company intends to maintain professionalism.
brings valuable industry knowledge, both from the dividend as a core element of shareholder her time as CEO of NetCom ASA in Norway and I am confident they will ensure that we returns and is recommending a dividend of in her ongoing relationship with Telenor ASA.
continue to deliver a great service to our US4 cents for the 2014 15 year.
customers and meaningful benefits in the As the former Columbus shareholders who communities in which we operate.
I would like Board changes received CWC shares are required to vote at to express my thanks to them for everything Following the acquisition of Columbus, we have all shareholder meetings in line with the they have done and the foundations they have three new major shareholders, each of whom recommendation of the Board for an initial now laid to make the combined Group even has proposed a Director to the Board.
I am period subject to certain limited exceptions, more successful.
delighted to welcome three highly committed under the Listing Rules and the City Code, the Non-executive Directors who bring with them Directors are subject to additional restrictions, Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE both telecoms experience and extensive including on their ability to trade shares, as Chairman personal networks.
John Risley is a Canadian described in more detail in the Directors and entrepreneur who co-founded Columbus.
corporate governance report on pages 55 Entities ultimately controlled by him own and 56. approximately 20% of the enlarged CWC.
Thad York represents the private office of Our approach John Malone, who has ultimate control of Our infrastructure and services play an integral an entity that owns 13%.
John Malone is a role in the communities we serve.
We always well-respected figure in the worldwide cable seek to take an active part in our community, industry.
He was a through supporting local causes, and being an co-founder of Columbus and as its Executive employer of choice.
Together with our new Chairman, led its progress from the start.
team members from Columbus we will redouble these efforts since we are aware of Perley McBride was appointed Chief Financial our social responsibilities and the role we play Officer in June 2014 replacing Tim Pennington.
We aim to maintain the Perley brings a wealth of experience to the highest standards of ethics and good business having spent most of his career governance and monitor this closely through working for both fixed and mobile telecom a series of both internal and external controls.
operators as well as technology businesses.
We have set out more information on our Following the completion of the acquisition approach to Corporate Social Responsibility of Columbus, we have reduced the number and Sustainability on pages 38 to 41 of of Executive Directors to two and with the this report.
transition to Miami completed, Nick Cooper, The Board has approved this Annual Report who has remained UK based, has now stepped and Accounts as being a fair, balanced and down from the Board.
Nick has served with understandable assessment of CWCs position distinction for nine years.
He has been a and prospects.
Director since demerger and has played a leading role in establishing CWC as an Annual Report 2014 15 05 Strategic Review Find out how we are delivering our strategy through increased investment 8-17 C hief Executive Officers strategic review 11 Our strategic imperatives 13 Our market opportunities 16-17 Group KPIs 17 Our performance 18-21 Principal risks and uncertainties 22-27 Group financial performance review 28-29 LIME performance review 30-31 Panama performance review 32-33 The Bahamas performance review 34-35 Seychelles performance review 36-41 Corporate responsibility and sustainability Our year of transformation and growth was marked by several major investments.
We embarked on Project Marlin, a US$1 billion investment-led strategy to upgrade our networks across the region.
In Panama, we made an important acquisition, acquiring Sonitel, an IT integration company, in a bid to strengthen our Business-to-Business operations.
In November 2014, we announced the US$3 billion acquisition of Columbus International Inc. which was completed on 31 March 2015 06 Cable & Wireless Communications We provide seamless mobile, broadband, video and voice services with our next generation network.
