Chairmans Statement The Group continues to generate best-in-class margins and excellent free cashflow Geoff Cooper Chairman Card Factory achieved an important milestone in The Board has also considered further the capital 2014 with its successful listing on the London Stock structure of the Group and continues to recognise the Exchange in May, followed by inclusion in the FTSE 250 benefits of financial leverage, whilst also wanting to in September.
These were significant steps for a ensure sufficient flexibility to invest in the growth of the business only formed in 1997. business.
Over the medium term, the Board expects to maintain a leverage ratio broadly in the range of 1.0 to Throughout this past year, and despite the inevitable 2.0 times net debt to underlying EBITDA.
To the extent distractions that an IPO can bring, the Group continued there is surplus capital within the business, having to deliver its successful strategy, focused on four pillars considered investment opportunities and other cash of growth: requirements, the Board expects to return that capital to shareholders.
growing like-for-like sales in existing stores: rolling out profitable new stores: Overall the Group has performed in line with the focusing on delivering business efficiencies: and Boards expectations at the time of listing.
As we increasing penetration of the complementary approach our first anniversary as a public company, online market.
I am confident that this track record of success will continue in the years ahead.
Our management team is well-established and has a strong track record of consistent delivery against each of these strategic priorities.
As a consequence, Card Factory has further enhanced its status as the UKs Geoff Cooper market-leading specialist retailer of greeting cards, Chairman dressings and gifts, and is building an increased online presence through its relatively young but fast growing, 24 March 2015 online operations.
The Group continues to generate best-in-class margins and excellent free cashflow, benefiting significantly from its unique vertically integrated business model.
Given this continuing strong performance, the Board is recommending a total dividend of 6.8p per share, giving a dividend cover of 2.5x based on adjusted proforma earnings, comprising an interim dividend of 2.3p per share together with a final dividend of 4.5p per share.
As indicated at the time of the IPO, we are paying a dividend for the full 2015 financial year, as opposed to for the period since IPO.
10 10 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 11 11
