Chairmans statement Ian Durant, Chairman DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH A RESPONSIBLE CULTURE OVERVIEW Total return Dividend I am pleased to report that Capco had another successful year in 2015, executing its strategy for its assets and generating strong returns for shareholders.
Covent Garden and Earls Court have experienced a very active year and milestones have been reached at both of these unique London estates.
17% 1.5p PERFORMANCE In 2015, Capco delivered positive performance with a total return of 17 per cent which represents the growth in net assets plus the dividends paid during the year.
The valuation of the Groups property assets increased by 14 per cent on a like-for-like basis Total shareholder return and total shareholder return, which reects the share price change pence 500 and dividends paid, was 20 per cent.
The strategy at Covent Garden to create an internationally 400 renowned destination for retailers and visitors continues to drive performance.
Following a positive year for leasing on the estate, new 300 Zone A rental levels were achieved and we have continued to invest in the estate through strategic acquisitions and developments.
200 Management remains confident that the ERV target of 100 million by December 2017 is on track.
100 At Earls Court, our plans continue to advance.
The team is demonstrating the capability to undertake complex and ambitious 0 10 May 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec projects and to manage them successfully.
The demolition of the 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 former Earls Court Exhibition Centres is well-advanced and Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index construction of Lillie Square is underway, with first completions expected later this year.
6 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The strategy to transfer the Venues business from Earls Court Following the promotions of Gary Yardley and Soumen Das to the to Olympia London has been undertaken successfully and roles of Managing Director with responsibility for the oversight of performance of the Venues business has exceeded expectations and investment performance at Earls Court and Covent Garden in this year of transition.
respectively, the business has continued to evolve its operational structure.
Operational functions have been further re-organised I would like to thank all of Capcos employees for their hard work to embed and strengthen our focus on long-term returns from during the year.
It is their commitment and expertise that allows our assets.
Both Managing Directors continue to report to Capco to continue to deliver our strategy and generate marketIan Hawksworth, Chief Executive.
The Board continues its leading returns for our shareholders.
commitment to encouraging diversity and the development of our people to ensure that Capco is resourced appropriately FINANCIAL POSITION AND DIVIDENDS for the future.
Prudent nancing remains an important part of Capcos strategy.
The Board ensures that the Company maintains a strong balance A RESPONSIBLE CULTURE sheet which will enable it to operate throughout the property cycle.
Capco seeks to generate market-leading returns with The balance sheet is strong and exible with a conservative LTV of entrepreneurial air, whilst operating responsibly, professionally 16 per cent.
Following a Covent Garden renancing of 705 million, and with accountability.
The Board encourages this culture which has further strengthened the balance sheet, the Company is throughout the business.
well-positioned to support its future activities with confidence.
You can read more about Capcos culture in our Corporate Responsibility report on page 49.
The Company continues to seek shareholder returns delivered through capital growth and a modest annual dividend.
This is Targeting ambitious returns requires us to ensure that risk is appropriate during a phase of capital investment and land value carefully managed.
During the year, the Board undertook a enhancement.
Accordingly, the Directors are proposing a final comprehensive review of its principal risks and its risk dividend of 1.0 pence per share, which brings the total dividend management reporting across the business in order to ensure that for 2015 to 1.5 pence per share.
the level of risk and return aspirations are appropriately balanced.
THE BOARD AND ITS PRIORITIES 2015 saw our first major demolition and construction projects begin There were a number of changes to the Board during the year, with at Earls Court and Lillie Square, and in preparation for this we Gerry Murphy joining as an independent Non-executive Director reviewed our health and safety reporting across the Group and and Andrew Huntleys retirement.
established a Group Safety Leadership Team.
Ian Henderson is to retire from the Capco Board and as Deputy Corporate Responsibility and how we conduct our business in Chairman and Senior Independent Director at the Companys the communities and environments in which we operate remains forthcoming AGM on 6 May 2016, and will step down as Chairman inherent in Capcos strategy and culture.
Our employees remain of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 25 April 2016. committed to our Corporate Responsibility programme and The Board is pleased that Ian will remain available to the Company throughout the year we have supported a number of charitable on a consultancy basis following his retirement from the Board, fundraising initiatives including Maggies Culture Crawl, a quiz allowing the Company to continue to benefit from his night in aid of the Sir Simon Milton Foundation and the Royal extensive experience.
British Legion Poppy fundraising day for the fourth consecutive year.
In addition, sustainability continues to play an important role in our Gerry Murphy will be appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration business and activities on both of our estates are underpinned by an Committee with effect from 25 April 2016, and Demetra Pinsent ambitious environmental and sustainability strategy.
will join the Remuneration Committee on the same date.
The role of Senior Independent Director will be taken up by Henry Staunton LOOKING AHEAD on Ian Hendersons retirement.
Londons economic prospects are positive and it is estimated that the population will grow signicantly over the next ten years.
Anthony Steains has been appointed as a Non-executive Director Capcos two unique estates are well-placed to benefit from this of the Company with effect from 1 March 2016.
On appointment, growth, providing vibrant and well-managed places for people Anthony will become a member of the Nomination Committee.
Whilst we expect increasing market The Board is keen to ensure that a balance of skills and experience uncertainty due to global and political challenges, Capcos strategy aligned to Capcos strategic goals is maintained, and in 2016, will remains clear and focused.
With a strong balance sheet we are continue to consider whether any additional Non-executive well-positioned to continue to deliver long-term value creation Directors should be appointed.
You can read more about Anthony Steains experience and our work on succession planning in the Nomination Committee report on page 65.
Ian Durant Chairman 24 February 2016 www.
