10 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our growth strategy seeks to create shareholder value by taking projects through the mining value chain: exploration, development and operations.
josef el-raghy Chairman During 2015 Centamin has maintained As noted at the beginning of the Fullyear cash operating costs its strategic focus on generating year, the open pit operation at Sukari improved to US$713 per ounce from shareholder returns and valueaccretive progressed through the next stage US$729 per ounce in 2014, mainly growth, despite the continued gold of pit development in line with the driven by the decrease in fuel price, price weakness and widespread longterm mine plan, resulting in although marginally above guidance of challenges across the industry.
below reserveaverage grades during US$700 per ounce despite the higher Our flagship Sukari Gold Mine has much of 2015.
The underground production than originally forecast.
continued to deliver substantial free and processing operations offset It is pleasing to note the fourth quarter cash flows, driven by a sixth successive these lower grades from the open cash operating cost of US$667 per year of production growth and industry pit in the first half of the year, with ounce, which points towards the competitive costs.
aboveforecast levels of productivity potential for Sukari to deliver driving gold production in excess of highlycompetitive cash margins, The strong performance of our core our initial guidance.
Sukari continued as productivity and cost efficiencies asset, together with the Companys to perform well during the second are the focus over the coming years.
robust financial position, allowed half, and fullyear production of Allin sustaining costs AISC of the board of directors to approve an 439,072 ounces was within the US$885 per ounce were below our interim 2015 payment of 0.97 US cents revised guidance range of 430,000 to original forecast of US$950 per ounce, per share versus a 2014 interim 440,000 ounces originally 420,000 mainly due to the rescheduling of payment of 0.87 US cents per share.
There was a strong end to certain sustaining capital cost items, I am now pleased to announce the year as the fourth quarter saw as highlighted in the third quarter the approval of a final dividend for plant throughput reach our minimum results statement, as well as the 2015 of 1.97 US cents per share.
expected longterm rate of 11 million higher production.
This represents a full year payout of tonnes per annum, being 10% above approximately US$33.7 million, which nameplate capacity.
sits at the top end of our dividend policy to pay out 1530% of our net free cash flow.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report Blast hole drill rigs in place in the open pit In May 2015, Centamin detailed Profit before tax of US$58.4 million Centamin made continued progress its fiveyear production and cost was down 28% on 2014 and earnings during 2015 in developing its guidance following completion of per share for 2015 was 4.51 US cents, longerterm growth objectives.
construction and commissioning of compared with 7.21 US cents in 2014.
At Sukari, the total combined the Stage 4 plant expansion in the The reduction in profit was mainly due open pit and underground mineral prior year.
A seventh year of growth is to the decreased operating margin and reserve estimate increased, net forecast for 2016, with production of also a US$6.3 million writeoff following of mining depletion, by 7% to 470,000 ounces at a cash operating our decision towards the end of the 8.8Moz, continuing to support our cost of US$680 per ounce and AISC year to cease exploration in Ethiopia.
expectation for a mine life in excess of US$900 per ounce.
Further growth During the year the Company incurred of 20 years.
Whilst the increase was is expected in 2017 with an annual an income tax charge of US$6.8 million partly due to lower operating costs production rate of approximately in relation to foreign exchange gains associated with reduced fuel prices, 500,000 ounces per annum, with on its cash holdings within Australia.
it is pleasing to note that drilling from AISC continuing to trend downwards underground continues to improve Centamin remains committed to its below US$900 per ounce.
Continued the resource categories of our gold policy of being 100% exposed to optimisation and increases in asset base and thereby increases the gold price through its unhedged productivity over the medium term, the underground component of the position, and its balance sheet remains in particular within the processing and reserve.
The underground operation strong with zero debt.
We ended the underground mining operations, offer is an important valuedriver for our year with US$230.7 million in cash, good potential for further production business and we expect further bullion on hand, gold sales receivables growth and reductions in cash costs substantial growth of the reserve over and availableforsale financial assets.
the coming years as development and This is a material increase over the exploration continues.
2015 revenues of US$508 million were US$162.8 million at the end of 2014 up 8% yearonyear as an 8% fall in and highlights the potential of the realised gold prices were offset by a business to continue selffunding its 17% increase in gold sales.
EBITDA next stages of growth from cash flows decreased by 9% to US$152 million, whilst maintaining a commitment to mainly due to a reduction of gross dividend payments.
operating margin as a result of the drop in gold price, and also an increased cost associated with changes in production inventories.
12 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Centamin is in a strong position to continue investing in its longterm growth throughout the cycle.
With the downturn in gold prices Whilst disciplined and sustainable After a series of delays and having resulted in a significant growth on our existing projects remains adjournments, the Concession curtailment of industry spending on a key focus, we continue to evaluate Agreement appeal has now been set exploration, Centamin is in a strong opportunities to grow through the down for judgment on 24 May 2016. position to continue investing in its acquisition of projects which offer the If the judgment is a final judgment, the longterm growth throughout the potential for the Company to deliver Company expects it will be in its favour.
Beyond Sukari we are focused on its strategic objectives.
However, it has been advised that on our extensive licence holdings the Egyptian legal system allows for Developments in the two litigation within Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
the possibility of an interim judgment actions, Diesel Fuel Oil and Concession Whilst these districts hold potential for staying the appeal until the Supreme Agreement, are described in further several deposit types, our immediate Constitutional Court has ruled on the detail in note 20 to the financial objective is to discover and define validity of law no.
In respect of the latter, the areas of nearsurface and highgrade Company continues to believe that The group continues to benefit from economic mineralisation.
In this it has a strong legal position and, in the full support of the Ministry of respect, positive results during 2015 addition, that it will ultimately benefit Petroleum and the Egyptian Mineral have seen a number of priority areas from law no.
32 of 2014, which came and Resources Authority EMRA, emerge which will remain the focus for into force in April 2014 and which both in the Concession Agreement resource growth during 2016.
I look restricts the capacity for third parties to appeal and at the operational level.
forward to updating you further in due challenge any contractual agreement As part of our longterm strategy, we course with our progress in unlocking between the Egyptian government look forward to continuing to share the the Companys next stage of growth and an investor.
This law, whilst in force benefits of the Companys substantial from these highly prospective regions.
and ratified by the new parliament, is investment in Egypt as the Sukari currently under review by the Supreme operation sets the stage for a new era Constitutional Court of Egypt.
of gold mining in the country.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report open pit at Sukari At the start of the year, Andrew Pardey I would also like to take this I would like to close by thanking all was appointed as chief executive opportunity to welcome Ross Jerrard those at Sukari, in Alexandria, Burkina officer CEO and joined the board as our new chief financial officer Faso, Cte dIvoire, Jersey and Perth as an executive director from 1 CFO, effective 18 April 2016. for their efforts in 2015 as Centamin February 2015.
Andrew has been a Ross joins Centamin from Deloitte continued on its journey to becoming driving force behind Sukaris growth Australia, where he was a partner an established, cashgenerative and into one of the worlds leading gold with over twentytwo years audit and growing gold producer.
mines and Centamins development advisory experience, specialising in Your Company remains well positioned from a junior exploration company into the resources industry.
He has worked to deliver outstanding shareholder one of the largest gold producers in in southern Africa and the Middle returns in the coming years.
I am pleased to report East, including a threeandahalfyear forward to updating you further that during Andrews first year as period based in Egypt, servicing over the course of 2016, and would CEO, the Company has continued a range of multinational and welcome you to join us at our AGM, to develop and has realised its next natural resources companies.
This which this year will be held in Jersey stages of growth, whilst maintaining appointment follows the resignation on 11 May 2016. its strategic focus on cash flows, of Pierre louw, who will hand over shareholder returns and social responsibilities in April 2016.
We thank This strategic review, progress on responsibility.
Pierre for his service and wish him all strategy, key performance indicators the best in his future endeavours.
and business model together form the strategic report, which has been approved by the board of directors.
By order of the board for and on behalf of Centamin plc.
