02 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement The Group has delivered a resilient Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing performance for 2015, during what proved to be an incredibly challenging period for business.
We are an energy and services company both the energy sector and the global and our purpose is to deliver energy and services economy.
These results, the first full year under Iain Conns leadership, to satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
are a testimony to the resilience of our businesses, particularly those that are customer facing, and the dedication and hard work of our employees.
STRATEGIC REVIEW In July 2015, we announced the results of the Groups strategic review.
This review was largely driven by changing external factors and the Boards decision to question whether we had the right strategy and mix of businesses to take advantage of future opportunities.
As a Board, we fundamentally reassessed our strategy and the direction we wanted to take the Group.
In February 2015, we took the tough but necessary decision to cut the dividend, having reduced capital investment.
This was a further reason to review the Groups strategic direction so that we could move into the next phase with confidence and certainty.
Our review concluded that Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing business.
We are an energy and services company and our purpose is to deliver energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
The outcome of the review requires a change to our portfolio mix with our growth areas focused on our customer-facing businesses and a reduced scale in gas and oil E&P to a level which will still allow us to participate effectively in that market, Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman S erving our 18121948 1973 1986 customers Gas Light & Coke British Gas Corporation British Gas privatised Company formed established for over 200 years...
The Gas Light & Coke Company, The Gas Council is abolished British Gas Corporation is privatised formed by Frederick Winsor, was following the introduction of the and British Gas plc is formed.
The incorporated by Royal Charter in Gas Act in 1972 and British Gas Tell Sid campaign is launched 1812.
In 1948, the Gas & Coal Act Corporation is established in allowing customers to buy a stake nationalised the industry merging 1973.
The corporation is in British Gas.
Ofgas, the forerunner over 1,000 privately owned and responsible for the development of Ofgem, is created to regulate the municipal companies into 12 area and maintenance of the supply gasindustry.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 03 diversify our cash flows and help us to being nimble in our formulation of strategy major UK customer-facing business and has manage risk by contributing to the strength and attracting new talent to Centrica who a strong track record in improving customer of our balance sheet.
Although we are can provide us with competitive advantage.
service, increasing performance and driving making significant investment now, the Crucially, we will need to do this while growth through innovation.
Mark is well benefits from these changes will be realised maintaining our aim to deliver long-term placed to lead the business in this next over the next three to five years.
shareholder value through both returns and phase and our customer-facing businesses growth.
These goals are neither easy nor are already benefiting significantly from his ST 21 CENTURY ENERGY COMPANY will they be achieved overnight but they capabilities.
Jeff Bell, who was appointed as We believe in operating transparently, are an essential element of our journey interim Group Chief Financial Officer, has treating employees fairly and linking reward to transform Centrica.
Jeff brings extensive to performance.
These principles are not experience in driving financial performance BOARD CHANGES IN 2015 only the right thing to do but make good and has a strong track record in developing At the start of the year, Iain Conn was business sense too.
and leading finance teams both in the UK appointed as the Groups Chief Executive and in North America having joined the We also believe that we have a duty and he has shown that his breadth of Group in 2002. to make a positive contribution to the knowledge and commitment to customers communities in which we operate.
In the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and safety make him ideally suited to UK alone, Centrica supports 174,000 jobs FRAMEWORK lead Centrica in the next phase of its and 6,000 companies supplying goods development.
He has made a significant During 2015, the Board undertook a and services through our supply chain.
contribution in leading the Groups strategic fundamental review of the Groups principal In addition, we provide opportunities for review and has underpinned the outcome risks and its corporate governance training and apprenticeships to upskill with comprehensive implementation plans.
framework and considered the primary and motivate our workforce.
roles of the Boards Committees and During the year, both Carlos Pascual and Within the energy sector, we face particular their membership.
A new Committee was Steve Pusey joined the Board as Nonchallenges around sustainability: convened, the Safety, Health, Environment, Executive Directors.
Carlos experience Security and Ethics Committee SHESEC, heightened expectations for support to in international energy geopolitics and under the chairmanship of Mike Linn.
be given to those who are most affected economic and commercial development Its purpose is to ensure the effective by the additional costs of carbon has enhanced the Boards global management of risks in respect of people: reduction targets: perspective and he has brought strong engagement, culture and behaviours: challenge to the strategic review.
Steves prioritising technologies of lowest cost sourcing and supplier management: considerable international experience as a and least regret: and health, safety, environment and security: senior customer-facing business technology setting simple cost-effective information systems security: and legal, leader has provided a new dimension to our decarbonisation targets.
regulatory and ethical standards Boards discussions and undoubtedly this compliance.
There is further discussion The Board is engaged in understanding the helps us develop our thinking in respect on the corporate governance framework potential of new technology and big data of our innovative offerings to customers.
and individual Committee reports in the in our sector and the role that leadership Mark Hodges, Executive Director and Chief Directors and Corporate Governance can play in exploiting new opportunities Executive, Energy Supply & Services, Report starting on page 47. and guarding against new risks.
In order UK & Ireland also joined the Board in 2015. st to succeed in the 21 century, we will need Mark has substantial experience of running a to focus our energies on building trust, 1997 2000 20022003 Centrica plc formed Direct Energy acquired Rough storage facility secured Centrica is formed when British Centricas acquisition of Direct Centrica acquired the Rough Gas plc is demerged into two Energy marks a major step offshore gas storage facility separate companies: Centrica plc in international expansion.
off the East Yorkshire coast.
Centrica maintains Direct Energy is the largest This is the largest gas storage the British Gasbrand in the UK.
unregulated retailer of natural facility in the UK, holding the gas in North America.
majority of the UKs current storage capacity.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 04 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement continued BOARD EVALUATION The clear outcome of the 2015 UK general Our strategic direction involves election has provided greater political Centrica has for many years conducted a less reliance on upstream and certainty.
The Competition and Markets thorough review of Board process, practice Authority CMA investigation into the UK and culture on an annual basis with the more investment in sources energy market is ongoing and we welcomed input of an external facilitator at least once of differentiation in Energy this wide-ranging review and the possibility every three years.
The Board considers that it will have a constructive influence such annual reviews as an essential part Services, Connected Home, on competition in the sector.
In 2015, Distributed Energy & Power and we assessed our effectiveness internally The Group is underpinned by our building on the findings from the 2014 Energy Marketing & Trading.
competitive advantage including our strong external exercise.
We focused on our market share in the geographies we operate progress against our improvement agenda in, good brands and deep energy services READ MORE IN OUR BUSINESSES ON PAGE 12. and new reflections in the light of our capability.
Building on these strengths, our evolving context and composition.
This is strategic direction involves less reliance on discussed further in our Directors and upstream and more investment in sources Corporate Governance Report on page 50. of differentiation in Energy Services, Connected Home, Distributed Energy & DIVERSITY Power fide&P and Energy Marketing & Centrica continues to support diversity in Trading EM&T.
all its forms, from the top of our organisation Looking ahead, our people and our down.
We believe that a mixed, diverse technologies are what will make us workforce is best able to engage with distinctive, giving us the competitive our customers and society.
We know advantage to not only respond to the that diversity drives better insight and changing global energy sector but to win understanding of customers, leads to better for our customers.
For these reasons, innovations and itself attracts diverse talent.
I believe this is an exciting time for Centrica.
More information on our diversity agenda can be found on page 50.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman OUTLOOK 18 February 2016 For 2016, continued weaknesses in commodity prices will provide challenges for the Group.
However, I am confident in the Groups resilience against this backdrop.
The Group will continue to engage actively in discussions on energy policy in the UK, Europe and North America in the interests of our customers and stakeholders.
2009 2013 2014 2015 Centrica expands Energy Marketing Bord Gis Energy AlertMe and Panoramic in the North Sea business of Hess acquired Power acquired and into nuclear Corporation acquired Centrica acquired Venture Direct Energy acquired the Centrica acquired Bord Gis British Gas completed the Production to become a Energy Marketing business of Energy, a vertically integrated acquisition of AlertMe, leading operator of mature and Hess Corporation.
This made energy supply business in the a UK-based connected home orphaned gas assets in the UK Direct Energy the largest business adjacent market of the Republic company.
Direct Energy also continental shelf and acquires a gas supplier on the US East of Ireland from Bord Gis ireann, acquired Panoramic Power, a 20% interest in British Energys Coast and the second largest the state-owned energy company.
leading provider of device-level nuclear fleet of power stations business power supplier in the energy management solutions.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
