Chairmans statement The acquisition of Aerocrine brings commercial operations in the worlds two largest allergy markets, the US and Germany, and a network of distribution channels in other territories that we can bring in-house to expand our capabilities.
Most importantly, the field forces already target our future core customers: the allergy specialists who will be responsible for the success of our immunotherapy portfolio.
This established infrastructure provides an ideal foundation for our ambitious growth plans, while also providing an immediate and growing revenue stream from sales of its market-leading NIOX products.
Circassias commercial progress was complemented by the concurrent acquisition of Prosonix, which broadens and balances our pipeline.
Its products fall into the same respiratory focus as Aerocrine, with a number of near-term asthma treatments.
These are complemented by longer-term novel formulations targeting chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
These products can leverage our common commercial infrastructure, with late-stage asthma substitute treatments not requiring significant promotion but using our supply chain, reimbursement, compliance and analytic capabilities, while the success of the longer-term novel formulations can be greatly The last year has been a period of significant progress for enhanced by directly targeting key opinion leaders and specialists.
We advanced our pipeline of innovative allergy therapies and the successful acquisitions of Aerocrine and Building momentum Prosonix accelerated our strategy to commercialise these Since completing these acquisitions in June 2015, we have made products independently in key markets, while also building good progress advancing all three franchises of our business.
In our a broad and balanced pipeline of specialty treatments.
With immunotherapy franchise we are on track to complete our cat allergy a successful 275 million fundraising completed to support pivotal trial in the near future and to initiate a registration study in grass the acquisitions, the Company remains well funded to deliver allergy.
Our commercial progress is underlined by solid sales growth across the newly-expanded business.
in our acquired NIOX franchise, while our most advanced acquired asthma treatment has now been approved by the UK regulator.
Three franchises: one common infrastructure Overall, we have continued the momentum created by our acquisitions, Our strategy to transform Circassia into a self-sustaining leader in and have ambitious plans to build on this in the coming year.
the specialty pharmaceutical sector took a significant leap forward in 2015.
The business now has three separate specialty franchises based Positive outlook on three innovative technologies, which come together under a single Circassias future looks highly encouraging as our ambition to bring therapeutic focus and leverage a common commercial backbone our portfolio to market is increasingly matched by our capability to and out-sourced business model.
While the Company remains centred do so.
In the near-term, we look forward to completing our cat allergy around its revolutionary allergy products, it is also building significant phase III study, while expanding our commercialisation capabilities in additional value from its broader asthma and respiratory portfolio that preparation for its launch.
With the allergy sector continuing to attract can leverage its newly-established commercial infrastructure.
attention, and current therapies that target the underlying disease remaining highly inadequate, we are well placed to exploit These acquisitions represent an important strategic milestone the commercial potential of this previously poorly-served market.
Crucially, they leapfrog the requirement to build a commercial presence from scratch prior to our first product approval, Looking to the longer-term, the future is equally positive.
With thereby avoiding the major challenges associated with recruiting and three franchises, any of which has the potential to drive long-term retaining talented sales teams before they have products to sell and success, we have the prospect of ongoing substantial sales growth, having to commit resources to major infrastructure ramp up before a complemented by three potential product filings by the end of next year revenue stream is established.
and eight potential product launches by the end of 2021.
With a robust balance sheet to support our ambitious plans, we are well placed to achieve our goal of becoming a self-sustaining, world-class specialty biopharmaceutical business.
Dr Francesco Granata Chairman Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 16
