STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement Anthony Bloom Chairman right Moshe Mooky Greidinger Chief Executive Officer left The outlook for 2016 is encouraging as there is a solid film release programme and weare currently on track to open a further 13 cinemas during the year.
Accordingly, Ilook forward to the future withoptimism and confidence.
Anthony Bloom Chairman | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 6 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT Overview Governance Code, and stepped down from the Board at the I am pleased to report that 2015 was another successful and AGM on 26 May 2015.
I would like to personally thank David exciting year for the Cineworld Group and its shareholders.
and Peter for their dedication to Cineworld since its listing, and Revenues continued to grow as more than 93 million customers during a period which has seen the Company become one the came through our doors and enjoyed the movies we showed.
UKs most successful cinema chains, expand internationally The film slate was strong with a number of blockbusters and enter the FTSE 250.
They made a significant contribution exceeding expectations Jurassic World, Spectre and and we wish both of them well for the future.
Star Wars: The Force Awakens being the most significant.
The increase in EBITDA was the result of thatpositive trend At the AGM, Julie Southern and Alicja Kornasiewicz were in admissions, two months additional results from the Cinema elected to join the Board as independent Non-Executive City acquisition, as well as better operating efficiencies and the Directors.
Julie Southern was appointed as the Chair of the effect of our new cinemas, limited in the latter case as most of Audit Committee, to replace David Maloney.
Julie has an them only opened towardsthe end of the period.
extensive background both in finance and consumer facing businesses and is well qualified to assume this role.
Alicja The Groups EBITDA for the period increased by 22.7% to has extensive experience in most of the Eastern European 155.3m 2014: 126.6m, on revenue which improved by territories in which the Group operates and brings a valuable 13.9% to 705.8m 2014: 619.4m.
Statutory profit before skill set to the Board.
Both Julie and Alicja have already taxincreased by 48.1% to 99.7m 2014: 67.3m.
made significant contributions to the Board discussions and coincidentally have the added advantage of addressing the The Groups balance sheet is strong.
Net debt reduced gender imbalance which previously existed on the Board.
to 245.2m, thus reducing the EBITDA to net debt ratio at the year end to 1.6 times, compared to 2.1 times in the On 26 May 2015 Rick Senat was appointed as the Senior prior year.
This strength along with the excellent operating Independent Director, a position previously held by David performance of the Group has enabled the Board to declare Maloney, and Martina King was appointed as the Chair of the a full year dividend of 17.5p per share, which represents 29.6% Remuneration Committee, succeeding Peter Williams.
Iam particularly proud of the fact that the Group Smith, who joined the Company as In House Counsel in 2011, has increased the dividend every year since the Company was appointed as Company Secretary and General Counsel, was listed in 2007, in varying economic conditions which with effect from 30 June 2015.
I would like to welcome Fiona insomeyears were extremely challenging.
Smith to the role of Company Secretary, and thank outgoing Company Secretary and General Counsel Richard Ray, who During 2015 we focused on both expanding and renovating has helped guide Cineworld for seven years since its early our estate.
There were a record number of 18 site openings years as a listed Company.
in the UK and Ireland and CEE and Israel.
We operate 2,011 screens, in 218 cinemas, across nine different territories as at On 9 June 2015 Philip Bowcock stepped down as Chief the end of 2015.
This translates into approximately 10,000 Financial Officer.
Deputy CEO Israel Greidinger, formerly shows a day in 9 different territories, a managerial task CFO of Cinema City International before its combination of considerable magnitude which our management team with Cineworld in February 2014, assumed the responsibility handled with great skill.
We are currently scheduled toopen of CFO on an interim basis.
I would like to thank Philip for a further 465 screens over the next four years 290 of his important contribution as CFO of Cineworld and on whichare in CEE and Israel and 175 of which are in the UK.
Thisexpansion will be financed from internal resources and provide excellent growth potential into the future.
It goes without saying that we will continue to attain the highest corporate governance standards.
This is a matter The Groups performance in 2015 was gratifying in a number thatthe Board takes extremely seriously.
We continue to take of important areas, particularly in the field of enhanced note of issues that concern the environment, gender and other customer service.
Driven by our focus on ensuring that we diversity and health and safety matters, and we periodically make good on our publicly expressed promise to be The Best review and where appropriate improve our practices in Place To Watch A Movie, we were pleased that our efforts thoseareas.
in this regard were validated by the fact that we were the top ranked UK cinema chain in the highly regarded Annual On behalf of myself and the Board I would like to Survey conducted by the Institute of Customer Service.
In expressmysincere appreciation to the Groups management addition, our CEO Mooky Greidinger will be awarded the and all its employees for their hard work, competence prestigious Global Achievement Award by the National and professionalism and their achievements during 2015.
Association of Cinema Owners in Las Vegas in April this Wehavean excellent and highly motivated management year, a mark of the respect in which our Company is held team, a modern estate with state of the art equipment and internationally.
Going forward we will continue to make bold plans for the future, all of which will continue to provide excellent customer experience a top priority, as it has always shareholder value.
been between Cineworld and Cinema City.
The integration process of the twocompanies was completed during the year Outlook and I am pleased to report that the synergies achieved have The outlook for 2016 is encouraging as there is a solid film significantly exceeded our original expectations.
release programme and we are currently on track to open afurther 13 cinemas during the year.
Accordingly, I look Board forward to the future with optimism and confidence.
Following nine years of committed service, David Maloney and Peter Williams ceased to be considered independent as Anthony Bloom Non-Executive Directors, as defined by the UK Corporate Chairman 10 March 2016 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 7
