Strategic report Strategic report Chairmans review Through the acquisition we have combined two leading businesses and highly experienced and proven management teams to create a fully integrated offer across shipping and offshore, broking and banking.
4 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Overview People Whilst shipping and offshore markets have seen some The most important core strength of the group is the quality good opportunities during 2015, overall there have of our people, who constitute the heart of everything we do, been unprecedented challenges, so we are very pleased and I am delighted to confirm that the integration process Clarksons has once again delivered a robust performance.
The combined team now fields experts Key to this has been sticking to our strategy of best in across the globe in every part of our business: shipping class service offer, underpinned by unique breadth, global and offshore, banking and broking, research and support.
reach and the expertise of our people.
Without losing sight Board of the really important day-to-day service, difficult times often require new solutions.
The integrated tool box now Following completion of the Platou acquisition, and as available to clients, combined with real execution expertise, highlighted in my report last year, Peter M. Anker and Birger has been key to these results and is also essential for the Nergaard joined the board.
Their contribution and breadth way forward.
of experience has been of great value.
On 2 February 2015 we completed the acquisition of During the course of the year we were delighted to RS Platou ASA Platou, a leading international broker and announce the appointment of Jeff Woyda as chief operating investment bank, focused on the offshore and shipping officer of the group in addition to his role as chief financial markets.
Through this acquisition we have combined two officer.
Jeff joined Clarksons in 2006 and has played a major leading businesses and highly experienced and proven role in the growth and development of the business in the management teams to create a fully integrated offer across last nine years.
The board believes this appointment better shipping and offshore, broking and banking.
The board reflects Jeffs remit and role within the business.
firmly believes that this deal sets new standards in the broking industry.
The integration of our two businesses has Outlook continued at great pace over the course of the year and The challenges witnessed across the global shipping is now effectively complete.
On behalf of the board I would markets have continued into 2016.
The macro-economic like to congratulate the entire team across the business environment remains very uncertain and as such we do on this significant achievement.
not anticipate any changes to our markets in the near term.
Despite this backdrop, growth remains a central plank Results of our strategy.
Market turbulence continues to drive a flight The results in 2015 include 11 months contribution to quality which, as the market leader, we have benefited from Platou.
It has also encouraged the consolidation we have Underlying profit before taxation was 50.5m 2014: seen in the industry in recent years and of which we have 33.8m.
Over the course of 2015 we have taken significant strides to strengthen the fully integrated Underlying earnings per share was 121.9p 2014: 134.2p Clarksons offer with the very best people supported by resulting in basic earnings per share of 68.2p 2014: 91.9p.
valued research and unique technology, positioning our business for the long-term.
Dividend Clarksons has increased the dividend every year since 2002 in line with its progressive dividend policy, and in 2015 again Clarksons intends to raise the dividend paid to our shareholders.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 40p 2014: 39p.
The interim dividend was 22p 2014: 21p, resulting in a 3% increase in the total dividend for the year to 62p 2014: 60p.
The dividend will be payable on 3 June 2016 to shareholders on the register at 20 May 2016, Please see our business review on subject to shareholder approval.
pages 14-27 for more information 5 www.
