Chairmans Statement Our focus in 2015 has been on integrating Aeroflex, streamlining the portfolio, embedding continuous improvement and positioning the Group to generate growth and cash.
However, we have encountered unexpected headwinds in some of our commercial markets COBHAM IS NOW MUCH primarily as a result of slowing growth in Asia-Pacific and the impact of the reduction in the price of oil and gas.
The Board believes that the fundamental, MORECOHESIVE WITH long term macro growth drivers in these markets, for which our technology is well positioned, remainunchanged.
STRONGER POSITIONS It is these unexpected headwinds which have heldback Group revenue growth during the year, FROM WHICH TO GROW with Cobham posting a slight organic revenue decline overall.
Further, the headwinds have masked the solid progress that we have made to improve the business.
This has included our increased investment to grow our pipeline of new and improved products and services.
In addition, there has been very good progress on our major aerial refuelling development programmes.
Although challenges remain as we move through the critical flight test phase on the US KC-46 tanker programme during 2016, we have made progress including the first successful transfer Full year dividend Overview of fuel to a US Navy aircraft in early February 2016.
Following the 2014 acquisition of Aeroflex for Our progress here is, in part, testament to the some US$1.5bn, our focus has been on integrating ongoing commitment to increasing critical skills 11.18p the former Aeroflex businesses, streamlining and capabilities in the business and to embedding 2014: 10.65p and simplifying the portfolio, and continuing to a continuous improvement culture.
This targets embed a continuous improvement culture in the enhancements to our engineering skills as well business.
These actions, together with our focus asongoing improvements to key operational and ontechnology and customers, position the Group customer delivery metrics including on time delivery, todeliver growth and generate cash.
quality and also supplier performance, which are Growth in full allcritical to the ongoing health of the business.
year dividend This year, we have seen signs of stabilisation and, in some regions, improvement in our defence We are extremely encouraged by the excellent and security markets, which have been through progress made in integrating the former Aeroflex 5% aperiodic downcycle.
The new bipartisan budget businesses into the Group.
Integration is now 2014: 10% agreement in the US covering 2016 and 2017, which expected to be complete by the end of 2017 with includes an increase to the investment accounts, has costs and benefits in line with original expectations.
underpinned this, even though there is a continuing time lag between budgetary approval and outlays, In addition, we have streamlined and simplified or the spending of the budget.
Elsewhere, there is the Groups portfolio by exiting certain markets evidence of modest increases in some European and technologies, allowing us to focus on our defence security budgets, with growth continuing core capabilities.
This has reduced complexity and inAsia-Pacific and in Middle East markets.
enablesus to concentrate our investment in markets with the most attractive long term potential.
com Cobham plc 4 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT These divestments have contributed to Cobhams Dividend 13% CAGR over ten years in dividend pence cashgeneration in the year and we ended the The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2006 3.75 yearwith lower net debt, despite unhelpful year 2015 of 8.13p 2014: 7.746p.
This, together with endtranslation rates, as the Groups debt is primarily theinterim dividend of 3.05p 2014: 2.904p, will 2007 4.50 denominated in foreign currencies.
Operating cash result in a total dividend per share for 2015 of 2008 4.96 generation and free cash flow remain areas of 11.18p 2014: 10.65p, an increase of 5%.
2009 5.45 increased focus for the Group in 2016.
2010 6.00 This increase is consistent with the Groups policy, When I look back at the considerable progress which I first set out in the 2014 Annual Report 2011 8.00 made over the past few years, Cobham is now and Accounts, of growing the dividend so that it 2012 8.80 a much more cohesive entity with stronger and isbroadly aligned with underlying earnings growth, 2013 9.68 more focused positions from which to grow in while rebuilding dividend cover over time.
It has strengthened its leading market continues to consider that this approach will give 2014 10.65 positions through selected acquisitions and judicious theGroup the flexibility to invest to drive growth 2015 11.18 technology investments and it has exited weaker andmaximise shareholder returns.
market positions by divesting some of its more peripheral activities.
It has a greater balance in The Board is mindful that Cobham has a long See page 28 for more information.
revenue from its main markets with more scale in trackrecord of dividend growth, this being the th attractive commercial segments.
It has a redesigned 45 consecutive year in which the full year dividend organisation and management structure which has has been increased, and it remains committed to closely aligned management and reporting lines with aprogressive dividend policy.
the drive to deliver revenue growth.
It has reduced its fixed cost base, with some of the efficiencies Conclusion generated being used to increase investment in the We have continued to make excellent progress business.
It continues to transform its operational onthe delivery of our strategic objectives during the performance and customer delivery, to enable it to year, including excellent progress with the integration meet and exceed customer expectations and grow of the Aeroflex business.
In addition, we have exited market share over time.
certain markets and technologies, allowing us to focus on our core capabilities, and in so doing we In addition, there has been an increase in our focus have reduced our risk profile.
on risk management processes, on ethics and on employee satisfaction, with Cobhams ongoing The Board remains confident that the continued Group-wide employee engagement and initiative investment in technology and know-how will enable feedback programme expected to include former us to maintain our leading positions in markets with Aeroflex employees for the first time during 2016. good prospects, leaving Cobham well placed to For further information visit us deliver growth over the medium term.
com The Board We announced in January 2016 that Simon Nicholls, Chief Financial Officer CFO, will be leaving Cobham to become CFO at Wolseley plc.
The search to replace him is underway and, to ensure a smooth transition, Simon will remain in place until his successor has been identified.
John Devaney We have also welcomed Alan Semple to the Board Chairman as a Non-executive Director in February 2015.
2 March 2016 Alan was previously CFO at John Wood Group plc.
He subsequently became Chairman of the Audit Committee in April 2015, replacing Mike Wareing, who remains a member of the Committee.
com Cobham plc 4 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
