Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DELIVERING GROWTH 2015 has been another year of consistent performance for Compass, delivering sustainable organic revenue growth and returns for shareholders.
As we look forward, the opportunities for further improvement and value POSITION IN FTSE 100 INDEX AS OUR VALUES AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2015 2014: 28 creation remain attractive.
OPENNESS, TRUST AND INTEGRITY PASSION FOR QUALITY 25 WIN THROUGH TEAMWORK Im pleased to report another excellent year for Compass.
We continue to pursue our clear and COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE V FTSE 100 consistent strategy, which has delivered a RESPONSIBILITY OVER LAST 3 YEARS % strong performance for shareholders, and we remain positive about the future opportunities CAN DO SAFELY we see.
1 YEAR 14.2 PERFORMANCE 2 YEARS 22.8 Our commitment to generating sustainable organic growth by winning new contracts 3 YEARS 39.4 and retaining existing business has delivered a strong performance.
We have achieved excellent levels of organic growth in North America and emerging markets, despite an uncertain economic environment in some of COMPASS GROUP SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE V THE FTSE 100 INDEX those countries.
Encouragingly, Europe & POUNDS Japan returned to growth in the first half of FTSE 100 REBASED the year, with progress accelerating through COMPASS the second half.
2014 2015 13 Our focus on embedding the Management and Performance MAP framework deeper into 12 the organisation and generating efficiencies remains as strong as ever.
This has enabled us 11 to reinvest in the business to support growth and deliver an improvement in underlying 10 margin before restructuring costs.
These relate to a proactive reduction of the cost base in our 9 Offshore & Remote business globally and in some emerging markets to manage the impact 8 of challenging market conditions.
S O N D J F M A M J J A S Richard talks more about the drivers of our performance on page 8 of this report.
2 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 SHAREHOLDER RETURNS OUR PEOPLE SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK As a result of this strong performance, Im Compass owes its success to its more than Compass has had another strong year.
North pleased to announce that the Board has 500,000 employees.
I would like to thank America continues to deliver excellent growth.
recommended a final dividend of 19.6 pence them all for their dedication and hard work Our business in Europe & Japan is enjoying per share, which brings the total dividend during the year.
Im committed to creating a strong recovery as we are rewarded for our for the year to 29.4 pence per share, an an environment that encourages and enables investment to accelerate growth in the region.
increase of 10.9% over the prior year.
The people to achieve their ambitions and develop Our Fast Growing & Emerging region continues final dividend will be paid to shareholders the skills they need to do so.
to perform well despite lower volumes and on 22 February 2016. pricing pressures in the Offshore & Remote sector, and in some emerging markets.
LEADERSHIP AND BOARD CHANGES We completed the 500 million share buyback After 11 years with Compass, initially as programme, announced on 27 November We continue to drive operating efficiencies Group Finance Director and then as Group 2013, on 10 August 2015, buying a total of around the business, which we are partly Chief Operating Officer, Europe & Japan, 48.3 million shares.
reinvesting in the growth opportunities we see Andy Martin will stand down from the Board across the Group.
Excluding the 26 million Creating shareholder value is a key priority on 1December 2015.
As a result of Andys of restructuring costs announced in July, for the Group and, going forward, our priorities departure, Dominic Blakemore will move underlying operating margin for the Group for how we use our cash remain unchanged.
from his role as Group Finance Director improved by 10 basis points.
We will continue to invest in the business to become Group Chief Operating Officer, to support organic growth, pursue small to Our expectations for 2016 are positive and Europe from 1 December 2015.
Johnny medium sized infill acquisitions and grow unchanged.
The pipeline of new contracts is Thomson will succeed Dominic as Group the dividend in line with earnings per strong, and the savings from the restructuring, Finance Director from his position as Regional share.
We remain committed to maintaining together with the margin improvement in the Managing Director of our business in strong investment grade credit ratings and rest of the Group, are expected to offset the Latin America and will join the Board will therefore return any surplus cash impact of lower volumes and pricing pressures on 1 December 2015. to shareholders to target net debt EBITDA in our Fast Growing & Emerging region.
Ireena Vittal and Nelson Silva also joined the of around 1.5x.
In the longer term, we remain confident about Group as non-executive directors during the the significant structural growth opportunities year.
Ireena brings to the Board a wealth of COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE globally and the potential for further revenue experience, particularly of working in India RESPONSIBILITY growth, margin improvement, as well as which is an important fast growing and Corporate responsibility CR underpins our continued returns to shareholders through emerging market for Compass.
Nelson is business, enabling us to achieve our strategic dividends and ongoing share buybacks.
currently Senior Vice President responsible goals in a responsible and sustainable way.
for Brazil, Bolivia and Uruguay for BG Group The Board is fully committed to the integration and has over 40 years of international of broader social, ethical and sustainable experience in mining, logistics, aluminium practices across our day to day business.
and oil and gas industries.
Our teams around the Group work hard to PAUL WALSH Sir Ian Robinson will retire from the Board continuously enhance the positive contribution Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys Annual that we make to local communities.
We focus 24 November 2015 General Meeting in 2016 after nine years on the issues that are important to our service.
Don Robert became the Senior business and our stakeholders, from the way Independent Director from 1 October 2015 we source our products to how we engage with in succession to Sir Ian.
Specifically, our focus includes developing our people, the On behalf of the Board, Id like to thank Andy health and wellbeing of our consumers, the and Sir Ian for their contribution and welcome responsible use of resources and improving Johnny, Ireena and Nelson to the Board.
the integrity of our supply chain.
There is more information on our CR performance during the year in the CR section Corporate of this report, which starts on page 35.
Responsibility Read more on pages 35 to 39 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 3 CUSTOMISED SECTORISATION IS A KEY TO OUR SUCCESS Sectorisation enables us to adapt our offer to different market segments.
This approach is most well developed in North America, where we use our portfolio of B2B brands to customise our services for each client and we now have over 20 sub-sectors.
For example, in Healthcare & Seniors we have different sub-sectors for food and support services and for hospitals and senior living communities.
