Strategic report Chairmans review Confident in the Groups position to deliver in 2016 following a transformative year in 2015 IN SUMMARY Significant period of change in the market and our business New management and divisional structure in place with four business units focused around the customer Retail, London, Financial Services, B2B Proactive action taken on cost while protecting key investments Clear strategic vision communicated to the business In my second and final term as chairman In 2015, we confirmed that there would be As noted in our January 2016 Trading ofthe Group, I am reporting following a no change to the underlying dividend policy Update, the Group achieved an encouraging significantly tougher year both for the market which would target a payout ratio of 3545% performance in Q4 of 2015.
While it is too and Countrywide.
2015 was an uncertain of the annual reported Group profits after early to accurately predict how the residential year and we know that uncertainty does taxbut before amortisation.
Inrecent years, transactions market will perform in 2016, notbreed confidence, a necessary factor theGroup has paid 40% and I can confirm trends are encouraging with momentum toprovide stimulus to the UK housing that the 2015 cash payment will be held at building and strong pipelines.
At this stage transaction market.
The May general the previous years level.
In February 2016, inthe year, I am confident that the Group electionwas the most uncertain election wesold 8,659,302 Zoopla shares realising isin a good position to deliver in line with inageneration and the anticipated 19.1 million which will be returned to the Boards expectations.
shareholders by way of a share buyback programme.
We continue to hold 9,234,473 2015 results delivered income growth of Zoopla ordinary shares.
The Board has the 4%to 733.7 million but EBITDA fell to potential to re-introduce special dividends 113.0million.
Grenville Turner performance, with poorer results in sales Chairman andlettings, these figures highlight the As announced on 11 February 2016, 25 February 2016 benefits we continue to derive from our Iampleased that Peter Long will take over broadly based diversification strategy with asnon-executive chairman following the 42% of Group EBITDA being delivered from Companys Annual General Meeting on Lettings and Commercial, our key recurring 27April 2016.
I am proud of my tenure at revenue streams.
Other contributors to Countrywide and it was always my intention growth were our Financial Services and to only remain as chairman for a period of Surveying teams, two areas of the business two years.
I believe the time is now right to which outperformed the market in 2015. depart, with the arrival of Peter who brings astrong customer focus and a wealth of plc board experience, which will complement the Boards expertise and add value to Countrywide as it delivers its customer-centric strategy.
