HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DRIVERS FOR GROWTH Taste, heritage and authenticity First class customer service In 2013 we commissioned our gourmet pastry We work closely with our customers throughout facility in Malton, North Yorkshire, home to the product development process to deliver the Yorkshire Baker, to deliver premium quality tailored food solutions, to meet the changing pastry products.
A well thought out design, demands of the UK consumer.
Our passion for industry leading equipment and a highly skilled quality, service and innovation is channelled workforce enables us to incorporate fresh, into our commitment to continually exceed natural, quality ingredients into our recipes our customers expectations.
to bake great tasting, authentic, hand-made products.
This unique bakery facility now produces high quality pies, quiches and sausage rolls for premium retail and travel customers.
For more information on our strategy and business model see pages 20 to 25 FOCUSED ON REAL QUALITY With a clear focus on premium quality products and categories, we use authentic, artisan processes wherever possible to maintain the heritage and integrity of our food.
08 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGY We will do this by focusing primarily on the growing quality end of the markets in which OBJECTIVE we operate and by establishing meaningful and long-lasting relationships with our major customers.
This will be achieved through a TO BE A LEADING SUPPLIER OF PREMIUM, FRESH AND ADDED-VALUE FOOD PRODUCTS WITH A FOCUS ON OPERATIONAL combination of product development and high EFFICIENCY AND DELIVERING INNOVATIVE, QUALITY PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS service levels.
We will continue to invest in quality facilities and the latest equipment so that we can operate as efficiently as possible and to provide a safe and secure working GROWTH STRATEGY environment for our employees.
Driven by organic initiatives and targeted acquisitions Our growth strategy Our long term growth strategy is to consolidate UK CONSOLIDATION UK DIVERSIFICATION DEVELOPING AN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS existing market positions, develop new products and channels in our core UK market and grow Penetrating more categories Developing new product Growing our international operations our international operations and customer base.
and reaching more customers solutions for our customers and customer base Organic growth initiatives are complemented by targeted acquisitions.
In this section we provide an update on progress made during the last PROGRESS financial year and the plans that are in place to develop our business going forward.
UK CONSOLIDATION UK DIVERSIFICATION DEVELOPING AN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS Our values New business wins Acquisition of Benson Park Rapid growth in exports to the Far East Our business model is underpinned by our New products launched Strong growth in premium pastry Dedicated business development four core values: Quality, Value, Innovation and resource in China People.
Our vision to provide high quality food, New customers added Focus on food to go and which is sustainably and ethically produced is at convenience channels More countries targeted Ongoing capital investment the heart of everything we do.
We will continue Investment in British Opportunities for premium to innovate and develop food which delights our charcuterie range products being developed customers.
Producing high quality food which is great value for the consumer has been central to our success so far and will be at the core of our future development.
Substantial ongoing KPIs investment in our production facilities and in ethical and sustainable supply chains underpins our value proposition.
We also continue to invest UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH ADJUSTED GROUP OPERATING MARGIN RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED heavily in our people.
This year we have boosted -0.3% 5.8% 17.0% our graduate recruitment programme and have funded extensive training and development 2015 2015 2015 - 0.3 5.8 17.0 programmes at all levels across the business.
2014 12.0 2014 5.4 2014 16.8 Over the following pages we provide further OUR OVERALL STRATEGIC AIM IS TO CREATE 2013 5.3 2013 2013 17.2 5.7 details of the Groups performance in the Operational and Financial Reviews.
We then ADJUSTED GROSS PROFIT MARGIN FREE CASH FLOW LONG TERM VALUE FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS, provide an overview of our core markets and 12.4% 53.5M the channels through which we access those markets.
Finally we outline our business model CUSTOMERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS.
2015 2015 and strategy, the key performance indicators we 12.4 53.5 use to monitor performance and the principal 2014 2014 11.8 59.1 risks and uncertainties we face in delivering 2013 12.2 2013 49.0 our strategy.
Adam Couch Chief Executive RISKS 18 May 2015 The principal risks and uncertainties, all of which may affect our growth strategy, are set out on pages 32 and 33.
10 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION IMPROVEMENT IN ADJUSTED 0.4% OPERATIONAL OPERATING MARGIN REVIEW THE MARKETS IN WHICH CRANSWICK OPERATES PRODUCT CATEGORY REVIEW CONTINUE TO BE COMPETITIVE, BUT WE REMAIN FOCUSED ON DELIVERING INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY AND EXCEPTIONAL FRESH PORK -10 PER CENT COOKED MEATS 2 PER CENT BACON 4 PER CENT Fresh pork sales were 10 per cent lower than Cooked meat sales grew by 2 per cent Bacon sales were 4 per cent ahead as continued SERVICE LEVELS TO OUR CUSTOMERS.
This was due, in part, to the loss supported by new product launches and growth of the business hand-cured, air-dried of business with one customer at the start of a strong promotional calendar as well as bacon was supported by a substantial uplift in the year, which has now been recovered in full.
increased business with a key retail customer sales of premium gammons.
The latest Kantar Adjusted Group operating profit increased by Exports to Europe were lower than the prior The fall in sales was also partly attributable after securing a long term supply agreement data also confirmed that the super-premium 10.1 per cent to 58.7 million in the financial year as more product was sold into the UK to a 9 per cent year on year fall in the average in the previous financial year.
The project to bacon category grew strongly during the year year on revenues of 1,003 million which market where prices were more attractive.
pig price, with this reduction being reflected extend the Milton Keynes facility was completed to March 2015.
This is a tier in which Cranswick were 1 per cent ahead of the previous year.
Fresh pork sales were during the year, on time and to budget.
This has a strong market position and where the Strong revenue growth in several of the Groups Infrastructure investment supported by a strong barbecue season in investment has substantially increased capacity barriers to entry are high.
During the year, product categories offset lower fresh pork sales A further 21 million was invested in the the first half of the year allied to a buoyant at the site and will deliver further efficiency the business moved to sole supply status for and a decision to use all of Cranswicks own pigs Groups infrastructure during the year to Christmas trading period.
During the year work gains as well as improving product quality.
premium bacon and gammons with one of the internally.
Revenue growth was also supported increase capacity, improve operating efficiencies UK DIVERSIFICATION on the new rapid chill system at the Norfolk During the final quarter of the year, all Groups leading retail customers.
Sales over the by the contribution from Benson Park, which and improve the quality of its asset base.
This investment which production at the Kingston Foods site in Milton key Christmas trading period were particularly was acquired on 22 October 2014.
Group brings our total investment over the last five BENSON PARK is part of an ongoing upgrade to the East Keynes was transferred to the Groups Sutton strong, with volumes well ahead of the same operating margin at 5.8 per cent of sales was years to 137 million, resulting in the business Anglian facility has made the plant more Fields facility in Hull.
The consolidation of period last year.
0.4 per cent ahead of the previous financial year, having some of the most efficient and wellenergy efficient as well as improving yields production at one site will allow the business reflecting an unstinting focus on improving invested production facilities in the UK food ACQUISITION and throughput speeds.
to better serve its customers and to deliver cost operational efficiencies across the Group and manufacturing sector.
All Kingston employees the benefit of lower pig prices in the current On 22 October 2014 Cranswick were given the opportunity to transfer to the financial year compared to the previous year Cranswick has performed positively during acquired Benson Park, a leading Groups Delico facility, also in Milton Keynes, when prices had risen rapidly to record levels.
a period in which the UK grocery market has producer of premium British with the vast majority taking up this offer.
The business SAUSAGES 6 PER CENT cooked poultry.
Board has recently agreed further investment Pig herd continues to focus on delivering high quality Sausage sales increased by 6 per cent with at the Kingston site which will see it used as Following the substantial investment in the premium products which deliver real value growth in premium sausage and beef burgers PASTRY 72 PER CENT a satellite gammon production facility.
Groups pig breeding and rearing activities to the UK consumer.
This focus on quality and It supplies ingredients to customers partly countered by lower sales of frozen and Pastry sales were well ahead of the prior year, during the previous financial year, the business value is underpinned by a constant drive to which operate in the fast growing food mid-tier ranges.
According to the latest Kantar continuing the positive development since this this year has focused on improving the quality innovate and bring new, exciting and relevant to go sector of the retail multi-channel, market research data, retail sales of super-premium category was introduced.
The rapid growth of of the herd and the performance of the breeding, products to market.
The ongoing growth and convenience and foodservice markets.
sausages, which Cranswick produces predominantly, the business initially added complexity and cost rearing and finishing units.
There is now development of the Company is underpinned This strategic acquisition moves continue to grow ahead of the overall category resulting in the return from the investment capacity to provide more than 20 per cent by the continued efforts of the highly skilled Cranswick into a new protein sector both in volume and value terms.
The price being below initial expectations: however the of the Groups overall British pig requirements and committed people across the business.
broadening both the Groups product differential between the premium and standard performance of the Malton facility improved and there will be ongoing investment to range and its customer base.
tiers is relatively modest which makes trading markedly during the second half.
During the CONTINENTAL PRODUCTS 8 PER CENT improve productivity and efficiencies.
Cranswick remains highly cash-generative up an attractive option for consumers.
The integration of Benson Park is year several new products were listed with Sales of continental products increased by allowing for attractive returns to Shareholders, progressing as anticipated and the this categorys lead customer and further 8 per cent reflecting the UK consumers growing Export trade continued investment in the Groups positive performance of the business products will shortly be launched for the coming taste for speciality continental products, including Exports to non-European markets were 23 per cent infrastructure and complementary acquisitions.
continues to be in line with the Boards spring summer season.
Good progress was made charcuterie, cheeses, pasta and olives.
Category ahead of the prior year, as the business continues Cranswicks facilities are amongst the very best expectations.
The major investment during the year in broadening the customer base growth was supported by new product launches to make positive progress in developing its export in the industry and ongoing investment, both programme at the site, which will for these products through food service, forecourt and new retail contracts in the second half of the trade.
The business is now exporting to a number in these assets and the teams which make substantially increase capacity, improve SANDWICHES 15 PER CENT and food to go channels, including some existing previous financial year together with a renewed of countries in the Far East and has recently sent them run so effectively, will support the efficiencies and allow the business to Sandwich sales grew by 15 per cent, driven customers of the Groups sandwich business.
focus on sourcing high quality, artisan products shipments to West Africa and Australia.
One-third Groups future successful development.
offer a broader product range, remains partly by new contract wins at the start of across Europe.
During the final quarter of the year, of the tonnage being processed through the on track and is expected to complete the period and by additional sales to existing a range of fresh olives was launched with a new Groups two primary processing facilities is in the autumn of 2015. customers.
The new contracts brought additional premium grocery customer.
The business increased being shipped overseas each week.
complexity to the business through an increased sales of its British charcuterie range and is investing product range which adversely impacted 0.6 million in a new salami production facility at Cranswick now has a dedicated business Adam Couch operational efficiencies: however a clear its Guinness Circle site in Manchester to provide development manager based in Shanghai and is Chief Executive improvement was seen during the second half capability and capacity to support future working with the China British Business Council 18 May 2015 of the year leaving the business well placed as development of this fast growing category.
to expand its knowledge of the Chinese market.
it starts the new financial year.
This improvement For more information see page 98 was achieved by both a relentless focus on labour efficiencies and yields and by streamlining the customer base and product range.
12 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 HIGHLIGHTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INCREASE IN CASH GENERATED ADJUSTED PROFIT FROM 10.6% 54.4M FINANCIAL BEFORE TAX OPERATIONS REVIEW Revenue Adjusted profit before tax Cash flow and net debt The Group also operates a defined benefit Reported revenue at 1,003.3 million increased Adjusted profit before tax at 57.8 million Cash generated from operating activities pension scheme which has been closed to further by 0.8 per cent with volumes 3 per cent higher.
increased by 10.6 per cent from 52.2 million.
was 54.4 million 2014: 60.1 million, with benefit accrual since 2004.
The scheme deficit Underlying revenue was in line with the prior higher Group operating profit partly offsetting at 31 March 2015 was 5.6 million 2014: 6.5 year with growth across most product categories Taxation increased working capital of 11.2 million million.
Cash contributed to the scheme during offset by lower fresh pork sales.
Underlying The tax charge of 11.6 million was 21.9 per 2014: decrease of 2.1 million, 4.9 million the year, as part of the programme to reduce the volume growth was countered by lower input cent of profit before tax 2014: 21.1 per cent.
of which related to Benson Park.
Net debt at deficit, was 1.3 million.
The present value of prices being passed on to the Groups customers, The standard rate of UK corporation tax was 17.3 million was in line with the prior year funded obligations was 30.2 million and the particularly in the final quarter of the year.
The effective end notwithstanding the 17.7 million net fair value of plan assets was 24.6 million.
Export sales to key non-European markets tax rate for the year was higher than the cash outflow on the acquisition of Benson Park, increased by 23 per cent.
standard rate of corporation tax due to 21.1 million of capital expenditure and a 15.4 disallowable expenses of 0.5 million.
Gearing fell from 5.6 Adjusted Group operating profit prior year charge included a 1.0 million per cent to 5.2 per cent as the Groups balance Adjusted Group operating profit of 58.7 million, deferred tax credit following the 3 per cent sheet continues to be conservatively managed.
Mark Bottomley including the post-acquisition contribution enacted reduction in the UK corporation The Groups unsecured bank facility of 120 Finance Director from Benson Park, increased by 10.1 per cent.
In addition, last years 1.1 million million extends to July 2018 and provides the 18 May 2015 Adjusted Group operating margin at 5.8 per cent contingent consideration provision release business with generous headroom.
of sales was 0.4 per cent higher than last years was not chargeable to tax.
level, reflecting lower input costs, operating Acquisitions efficiency improvements and the benefit of Adjusted earnings per share On 22 October 2014, the Group acquired product innovation.
Operating margin in the Adjusted earnings per share increased 100 per cent of the issued share capital of second half of the year improved to 6.2 per cent by 9.5 per cent from 84.1 to 92.1 pence Benson Park Limited, a leading producer of from 5.4 per cent reported at the interim stage.
reflecting the underlying profitability increase.
premium British cooked poultry, for an initial The weighted average number of shares in consideration of 17.7 million, net of cash 2015 2014 issue was 49,071,000 2014: 48,734,000. acquired of 2.3 million.
A further 4.0 million m m Change of consideration may become payable Adjusted Group Adjusted profit measures contingent on the performance of the business operating profit 58.7 53.3 10.1% Following investment in its pig breeding during a two-and-a-half year period from the Release of contingent and rearing activities last year, the Group date of acquisition.
The acquisition moves the consideration 1.1 now monitors performance principally through Group into a new protein sector and broadens adjusted profit measures which exclude its product range and customer base.
Benson Amortisation of certain non-cash items including: the net Park has performed in line with the Boards acquired intangibles 0.7 IAS 41 biological assets valuation charge expectations in the period since acquisition.
Net IAS 41 valuation of 4.2 million 2014: 1.4 million credit : Further details are set out in Note 14. movement 4.3 1.4 amortisation of acquired intangible assets of 0.7 million: and, in the prior year, the release Pensions Group operating profit 53.7 55.8 -3.7% of a 1.1 million provision for contingent The Group operates defined contribution consideration payable to the previous owners pension schemes with contributions made Finance costs of Kingston Foods.
Statutory profit before to schemes administered by major insurance Net financing costs at 0.9 million were tax fell by 3.5 per cent to 52.8 million companies.
Contributions to these schemes 0.1 million lower than last year, reflecting 2014: 54.8 million.
Operating profit on the are set as a percentage of employees earnings.
lower average bank borrowings and improved Revenue and operating profit same basis was 3.7 per cent lower at 53.7 terms following the extension of the Groups million 2014: 55.8 million and earnings 2015 2014 banking facilities at the end of the previous per share were 84.1 pence 2014: 88.7 pence.
Interest cover was 59.6 times Revenue 1,003.3 994.9 0.8% compared to 54.4 times a year earlier.
Adjusted operating profit 58.7 53.3 10.1% Adjusted operating margin 5.8% 5.4% 0.4% Excluding the contribution from the Benson Park acquisition in the current year and sales from the pig breeding, rearing and trading activities in both the current and comparative financial years.
14 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15
