Strategic Report Chairmans Statement A year of strong progress I am pleased to report, inmy first Continuing to deliver our strategy statementas Chairman, that Croda has I have joined Croda at an exciting stage made strong progress in 2015 Againsta inits development Innovation in 2015 backdrop ofchallenging market conditions, reached a record level with over a I have been impressed we have grown sales, increased profit and quarterof our sales coming from New generated a strong cash flow Ourfocus bythe way that innovation andProtected Products NPP This has oninnovation has been at the forefront increased our product differentiation runs through the Business, ofthissuccess The reorganisation to andimproved thequality of our Business embedded within Crodas aglobal market sector-led structure in Wecontinue tolead our sector: a speciality 2014has bedded inand is contributing DNA.
I would like to take chemical business developing distinctive toboth our top andbottom line growth ingredients for attractive niche markets this opportunity, on behalf Our strategy of investing in fast growth Record reported sales and of the Board, tothank all markets has continued to pay dividends pre-tax profit performance our people for their We have seen our performance in Asia go Sales for the year increased to 1,0817m from strength to strength, with the region commitment in 2015. representing constant currency growth now representing over 20% of total sales of42% over 2014 and capping six Anita Frew In addition we saw a steady recovery successive quarters of underlying sales Chairman inEuropean markets We have growth growth The improvement in adjusted potential and innovation opportunities pre-tax profit waseven stronger across all our market sectors up88%inconstant currency terms Croda is proud of itsindustry leadership Adjusted pre-tax profit was 2547m insustainability We havereaffirmed our 2014:2354m andIFRS pre-tax profit commitment to using naturally derived was2523m 2014: 2294m Our rawmaterials from sustainable sources performance reflected underlying sales wherever possible and we are well placed growth in all four sectors and from all tohelp customers deliver their consumer fourregional geographies Momentum promises Our pioneering investment in a continued in Personal Care, and Life new North American plant to manufacture Sciences delivered excellent sales non-ionic bio-surfactants isevidence of andprofit growth Although impacted ourconfidence in the growth potential of byaweaker market in Geo Technologies, green products, whilst our investments in Performance Technologies grew sales green energy and water saving technology inallits other markets and Industrial are delivering environmental benefits Chemicals improved its profitability We are committed to our strategy and Our people havehad the confidence in 2015 to invest The results we have delivered are a nearly 200m to drive future growth, testament to the quality, dedication and bothorganically through increased creativity of our people, many of whom capitalexpenditure and inorganically Ihave met during site visits since my byacquisition appointment to the Board last March In December 2015, Croda completed Ihave been impressed by the way that theacquisition of Incotec Group BV, innovation runs through the Business aninnovative seed enhancement andisfirmly embedded within Crodas business, foran overall consideration DNA Our people help to meet the diverse of155m Thisacquisition will broaden and complex needs of our customers, ourtechnology and market capability giving usan unrivalled ability to provide inCropCare and allow us to develop therightproducts for each local market aworldleading position in one ofthe I would like to take this opportunity, fastestgrowing niche segments of onbehalf of the Board, to thank all our thismarket people for their tremendous work and commitment in 2015 Croda International Plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Code and thisyearsReport We have deployed some of the Groups Leadership includes more analysis onrisk, control debt capacity to acquire Incotec.
However, In September 2015, my predecessor andlong term viability.
our balance sheet leverage remains asChairman, Martin Flower, stepped belowtheBoards policy of targeting a downafter 10 years withthe Company.
I would also like to thank Kevin Gallagher ratioof 1to 1.5 times net debt to capital Martin brought wide ranging experience who has retired from the Executive EBITDA.
Inlight of this, and givenour ofbothcorporate leadership and Committee in December after over ongoing strong cash generation, the governance.
During his tenure, Croda 40years of outstanding service to Croda, Boardisalsoproposing toreturn 136m delivered a total shareholder return TSR most recently leading Personal Care.
toshareholders by way of a special of721%, four times that achieved by FromJanuary 2016, SandraBreene has dividend of 100p per share combined theFTSE 250.
This was inno small way become President of our Personal Care witha share consolidation.
This will bring duetoMartins leadership and direction.
sector and Keith Layden has combined our leverage to around the mid-point Onbehalf of us all, I would like to thank therole of President of the Life Sciences oftheBoards target range.
himfor the contribution he made and sector with his existing role as Chief wishhim the very best for thefuture.
Maarten Heybroek Outlook continues as President of Performance The Board and Nomination Committee Looking ahead, whilst we expect Technologies and Industrial Chemicals.
completed a careful search fora new marketconditions to remain challenging, Chairman and I was delighted tobe our strong innovation pipeline and the Dividend and special return appointed to this important role.
I will benefits of our customer-led investment In 2014, the Board set out a clear continue to encourage the openness and incapacity, mean that we are confident capitalallocation policy, whereby profit frankness that Martin fostered, as well ofdelivering continued progress in 2016. andcash generated would be invested asensuring that the Board allocates ingrowing the Business organically and sufficient time to focus on critical byacquisition, paying a regular dividend strategicissues.
toshareholders and returning any surplus Your Board is committed tohigh standards capital to shareholders through one-off of corporate governance and to instilling returns.
Weare continuing to deliver theright culture, behaviours and approach onourstrategy, with good sales growth, to how we do business.
In 2014, our Anita Frew strong innovation and well invested external board evaluation recorded that Chairman assets.
TheBoard has proposed afull wehad a mature and collaborative yearordinary dividend increase of 5.3% Board, focusing on governance, strategy, to69.0p 2014: 65.5p, covered 2.0times innovation, global growth, restructuring 2014:1.9x by adjusted earnings per share andpeople.
Following the payment of an interim goodprogress in implementing further dividend of 31p in September 2015, positive changes to the way that we work.
shareholders will receive a final dividend TheBoard has spent time discussing of38p, subject to approval at the andimplementing the new UK Corporate forthcoming AGM.
Acquisition of Incotec In December 2015, we acquired Incotec portfolioof products will be available to Group BV, an innovative seedenhancement customers andthe combination with our business that uses sustainable technologies ownCrop Care business creates a strong to increase the farming yields of both andunique platform for future growth.
vegetable and field crops, which will help Webelieve that our combined innovation feed the worlds growing population.
strengths, together with our global sales reach, will enableus to be even more Seed enhancement has been identified as responsivein meetingthe unmet needs akeymarket opportunity for our Crop Care ofourcustomers todayand tomorrow.
business and Incotec is a rare asset in a niche, high value, fast growing sector.
Through this acquisition, a broader, more innovative Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
