Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Chairmans Introduction It gives me great pleasure to report on a year which has delivered record growth in overall net asset value.
The net revaluation gain was 229.7 million, an increase of 92% on the previous years gain 2014 119.6 million.
The UK revaluation produced an uplift of 15.5% 2014 9% while in the USA in dollar terms the figure was 13.4% 7.4%.
Net asset value per share has increased by 20.1% to 81.84 2014 68.15.
Once again we have seen significant growth in the value of our properties in London and the South East.
It is encouraging that values in other UK regions have also returned to growth.
In the UK this years revaluation surplus includes a total of some 77.0 million arising from increases in the value of Africa House, WC2 following completion of letting and in the value of The Strand Palace Hotel following a successful rent review.
For the immediate future however it is likely that increases in the rental income and capital values of these major properties will be more modest, in line with the market as a whole.
In the USA, yield compression and improved net operating income have contributed to increases in values throughout our portfolio.
Board In November 2014 we welcomed to the Board Mr Aaron Mendy Bude, who joined us as a nonexecutive director.
Mr Bude is a founding partner of Bude Nathan Iwanier, a firm of solicitors specialising in property matters.
Dividend A strong years results and confidence in the future provide a sound basis for your Board to propose an increase in the total dividend of 6p to 88p 2014 82p.
Outlook Last year I began my comments on the outlook with a word of caution: this year too, albeit against a positive background, I must strike a cautionary note.
Whilst the general election result has dispelled from the immediate horizon threats of rent regulation and changes to the AST regime, a new cloud has appeared.
The referendum on the UKs membership of the European Union EU, which will take place sometime in the next two years, introduces an unwelcome element of uncertainty into the market.
London benefits from its status as an internationally orientated city within the EU and it is likely that any change to this position would have an adverse impact on demand for office space.
The present crisis in Greece risks delaying economic recovery within the Eurozone which is the UKs principal trading partner.
At present our business is benefitting from a favourable combination of low interest rates, low inflation and positive economic growth.
We know from experience that these factors are cyclical and will in due course start to reverse.
In particular the unusually low interest rates we have seen in recent years may eventually start their movement back to more normal levels.
Property investment yields continue to be compressed but this trend may also start to unwind.
Nevertheless the overall outlook for the coming year remains positive with continued steady economic growth in both the UK and the USA.
We will continue with the pursuit of our objective of long term, low risk growth in net asset value and we have confidence that this approach will deliver another successful year.
Above: Sincere thanks must go to those whose endeavours have helped to deliver these results.
Freshwater House, Shaftesbury Avenue, London WC2.
B S E Freshwater Right: Chairman Africa House, 70 Kingsway, London WC2.
