CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Transformational sale It is very important that the Company In November 2014 we agreed to sell the has not let the tough trading environment assets of our Dairies operations to Muller and the transformational activities that we UK & Ireland Group LLP Mller for a have undertaken in the year deflect us from our commitment to act responsibly.
The This has been reflected in our continuing sale has been overwhelmingly approved strong performance in the Business in by shareholders but remains conditional the Community Index where we have on the approval of the Competition and maintained our position as their highest Markets Authority.
It is pleasing that we ranked business in the UK and further have received support for the sale from the improved our score.
independent organisation that represents our farmers, Dairy Crest Direct, and the Board changes wider farming community.
In addition to the departure of Anthony Combining our Dairies business with Fry, to which I refer above, Martyn Wilks, that of Mller will build on the progress Executive Managing Director, left Dairy that Dairy Crest has already achieved, Crest on 31 March 2015 to pursue other strengthen the wider UK dairy sector and interests.
Martyn was on the Board for allow Dairy Crest to focus on growing our seven years and played a key role in successful cheese and spreads operations.
He left Dairy Crest The financial results for the year ended with our best wishes for the future.
Martyn 31 March 2015, delivered in a particularly has not been replaced on the Board at challenging environment, highlight the this time.
differing financial performance of the business we are selling and those that we Increased dividend recommended will retain and which will be at the heart of The Board is recommending a final Anthony Fry Dairy Crest in the future.
dividend of 15.7 pence per share, making Whilst I was very pleased to take up the We have continued to make good a full year dividend of 21.7 pence per role of Chairman in September 2014, I did progress with projects that enhance the share, up 1.9% from last year.
This so with mixed feelings.
I was delighted future prospects of these businesses, dividend is covered 1.8 times by adjusted to have the opportunity to be able to including consolidating butter and spreads basic earnings per share, compared to contribute further to the future of Dairy production onto one site and investing 1.9 times last year.
Looking ahead, we Crest but saddened by the departure due in demineralised whey and galactopropose to maintain our progressive to illness of my predecessor, Anthony Fry, oligosaccharide innovative products that dividend policy with a target cover range who left the Board at that time.
Anthony will expand our product range and give us of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
had a significant influence on the business access to new sales channels in growing in his seven years as a Non-executive global markets.
Summary director and especially for the four years The conditional sale of our Dairies he served as Chairman.
I would like to Living by our Vision and Values operations will transform Dairy Crest and thank Anthony on behalf of the Board Dairy Crest has robust values and a leave a predominantly branded business for his considerable contribution to the clear vision.
The Board recognises that has delivered strong financial results development of Dairy Crest and to wish its responsibilities to the farmers who in the year.
The business will benefit him well with his recovery.
supply us with milk, our employees from greater focus on sectors where it is I would also like to thank Richard and franchisees, our pensioners, the already strong and where it has significant Macdonald who was Acting Chairman communities in which we operate and growth potential.
while Anthony was away from the business ourshareholders.
We use the framework and has now resumed his role as Senior that our well established Vision and Independent Director.
Stephen Alexander Chairman Valuesprovide to balance the different 20 May 2015 interests of these groups.
Highlights Total Product group profits of Cheese and On track to start production of demineralised Spreads businesses up 19% year on year.
whey powder and  for growing global markets this year.
Sale of Dairies operations approved by shareholders: regulatory approval progressing Strong Corporate Responsibility commitment to plan.
maintained top ranked UK business by Business in the Community for second Cathedral City brand continues to grow consecutive year.
strongly now Britains 16th largest grocery brand, accounting for over 50% of total Proposed final dividend payment of 15.7p branded retail cheddar sales.
