DEAR SHAREHOLDER 2014 15 has been a year of good CHAIRMANS profitperformance and strong cash generation, as the management focused on delivering progress in thestrategy to develop a leading international multiLETTER channel brand.
Delivering sustainable shareholder returns In particular, over the past year there isclear evidence that the business has madea step forward in online service, which our multi-channel growth supports: our market share has improved despite toughcompetition, which reflects our compelling customer offer: our refocused promotional strategy has underpinned growth in full price sales: and we continue to drive growth internationally despite foreign exchange headwinds.
Our strategy We are continuing to evolve our business model to ensure that the Group remains competitive, effective and successful within changing markets, and that our infrastructure is best-inA YEAR OF class in order to support international multi-channel growth.
The pillars of our strategy delivering a compelling STRONG CASH customer proposition: focusingon UK retail: increasing availability and choice GENERATION through multi-channel: and expanding the brand internationally remain central to the creation of shareholder value and are enabled by continuing investment in operational effectiveness.
An explanation of our strategy and theprogress we have made in 2014 15, together with a discussion of how we manage risk and integrate a sustainable approach across our activities, is shown on the following pages.
Our finances During the year we have made considerable progress in cash generation and having diversified ourfunding sources last year, we continue tohaveflexible and sustainable financial resources.
As a result of good cash flows, we have reduced our leverage from 1.6 times net debt EBITDA to 1.3 times at the financial year end.
With 90% of UK trading space either in new or recently modernised stores, our UK store business is well invested.
The Group is continuing with asystems investment programme to support its multi-channel growth both inthe UK and overseas.
Our dividend Debenhams is a cash generative business and the board has decided tomaintain the total cash dividend at 3.4 pence per share for 2015.
As part ofthe capital structure discussion, the Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2 Strategic report 2-39 board has reviewed its dividend policy AGM before stepping down from Our people and intends to adopt a progressive theboard at some point in 2016.
He We take the boards role in establishing dividend policy as earnings increase willprovide continuity and balance the culture and values of the Company and dividend cover is rebuilt over time.
tothecomposition of the board given very seriously.
I am impressed with hisexceptional knowledge of and progress in both staff engagement Our board commitment to the business and will assist andsetting goals for our employees, Michael Sharp has been Chief Executive in the Chief Executive succession process.
sothat all can see and be rewarded of Debenhams since September 2011 and forthe part they play in driving the it has always been his intention to serve a Denniswould not be considered performance of the business.
Michael is now two months independent asaresult of his nine detail can be found onthe way our into his fifth year and has indicated this is yearsas a member oftheboard, so organisation iscontinuing to evolve the right time for the board to commence inthe interests of good governance, and how we are developing thenext a succession planning process so that he hehasagreed to stand down as generation of leaders for Debenhams can step down some time in 2016.
SeniorIndependent Director, as chair within the resources, relationships Michael will remain in post during the oftheRemuneration Committee and andsustainability section.
Christmas trading period and into 2016 asamember of the Audit Committee.
and will assist the board in the process of On behalf of the board, I would like identifying his successor.
This process As a result Terry Duddy will be tooffer all of our people my gratitude willevaluate internal and external appointedSenior Independent for their hard work and dedication that candidates and Michael has agreed Director, and Martina King will has helped to deliver a successful year toremain in post to ensure an orderly becomechair of theRemuneration for the business in 2015.
With their andsmooth handover to his successor.
These appointments support and commitment we look willtake effect on 14 January 2016, forward to further progress in 2016.
On behalf of the board I would like to subjectto shareholders approving thank Michael for continuing to lead therespective directors election NIGEL NORTHRIDGE Debenhams through a crucial time of re-election at the AGM.
CHAIRMAN change in retailing and for the good 22 OCTOBER 2015 progress the Company has made underhis leadership.
He has worked enormously hard to develop the Companys strategy and the benefits ofthis are really starting to show in the INVESTMENT CASE results.
I am pleased Michael will remain with us until we have appointed a suitable replacement and will help facilitate an Business model orderly succession process.
The board is We aim to create value for shareholders by serving our customers well, with a clear confident we have a clear and effective understanding of what they want, supported by our expertise in how to develop, strategy and when Michael steps down, source and sell products through the channel that bestmeets their needs.
he will leave Debenhams in a strong Read more on the inside front cover position to compete and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Strategy To be a leading international, multi-channel brand by delivering a compelling There have been a number of changes to customer proposition and increasing availability and choice through our flagship the board in 2015. digital platform and well invested, well located stores around the world.
Read more on page 8 Debenhams welcomed our new Chief Financial Officer, Matt Smith, to the Brands board on hisappointment inJanuary.
We offer a unique, differentiated and exclusive mix ofowned, international Matt has excellent retail experience at and concession brands.
Our exclusive Designers at Debenhams ranges both Mothercare plc andHome Retail showcase internationally renowned British design talent.
Terry Duddy, former leader in premium beauty in the UK.
ChiefExecutive of HomeRetailGroup Read more on page 11 plc, was appointed anindependent non-executive director inApril.
Terrys Key performance indicators KPIs longand distinguished career in retail The board assesses the performance of the business on a range of financial, ensures that his experienceand expertise strategic and sustainability key performance indicators, some of which are will beagreataddition totheboard.
linked to the management performance share plan.
Read more on page 28 Sophie Turner Laing stood down as an independent non-executive director on Risks and how we manage them theexpiry of her second three year term.
The management of risk plays a central role in strategic planning and is Sophies input during her six years systematised to ensure that the Groups reputation is protected and the service on the board of Debenhams has strategic and operational goals of the business can be delivered.
We are very Read more on page 20 grateful to have had the benefit of her insight and support and wish her well Dividend policy inher future endeavours.
Debenhams is a cash generative business.
The board has reviewed thecapital structure and intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy Dennis Millard has agreed to stand which iscompatible with the investment requirements of the business.
forre-election by shareholders at the Read more on page 32 January 2016 Annual General Meeting Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
