Chairmans Statement 02 I am pleased that with the newly refreshed Board, we have a strong and experienced team to support and guide the Group.
John Nicholas, Chairman I was delighted to be appointed Chairman of conclusion of the AGM in January 2016 and reducing the results of the overseas your Company in January of this year, following after an orderly handover of responsibilities, to businesses when translated into UK sterling the retirement of John Rennocks from the retire from the Company on 31 March 2016.
Iain by 8.1m, when compared with last year.
During his ten years as Chairman, John has been a key member of the Board since adjusting for the contribution from these and guided the Company through an extended 1998 and as Chief Operating Officer since 2005, prior year acquisitions and for currency effects period of strong and sustained growth which has played a significant role in developing and on translation, Group revenues increased by delivered excellent returns to shareholders.
I implementing the strategy of the Group and in 1% on an underlying basis.
Steady underlying hope that in the years ahead I will be able to particular, the Seals and Controls Sector revenue growth of ca.
4% in both the Life maintain this performance through executing businesses.
The Board will miss Iains wise Sciences and Seals Sectors more than offset a the Groups strategy which is designed to counsel and robust approach to the day-to-day weaker performance from the Controls Sector deliver strong, double-digit growth in earnings operational challenges that face all businesses.
where underlying revenues declined by 5% and shareholder value over the economic cycle.
All of us in the Group wish him a long, healthy against a strong prior year comparative.
Shortly after my appointment, in June of this Adjusted operating margins remained robust year, the Board met at the facility of Kubo, our The Board is very supportive of the decision by at 18.1% 2014: 18.5% and adjusted operating newly acquired Seals business in Switzerland, our CEO, Bruce Thompson to establish over profit increased by 6% to 60.3m 2014: to review the Groups strategy and to set the coming year, a formal Executive 56.7m.
Gross margins in the Canadian and targets and objectives for each of the Groups Management Group EMG which will report Australian Healthcare businesses were again Sectors to be delivered over the next three to him.
The EMG will comprise the key senior impacted by transactional currency effects, years.
After a number of presentations managers of the main business clusters and but this was partly mitigated by a more and thorough and challenging reviews certain Group functions.
Good progress has favourable product mix and strong control with Executive management, the Board already been achieved with this development over operating costs.
Adjusted profit before was unanimous in supporting the Groups and two senior level recruits have recently tax increased by 6% to 59.6m 2014: 56.2m existing strategy of building larger, broader joined the Group to strengthen management and adjusted earnings per share EPS also based businesses in our three Sectors.
The Board remains confident that increased by 6% to 38.2p 2014: 36.1p.
strategy aims to generate stable GDP plus the formation of this EMG over the course of organic revenue growth over the business 2016 will provide Diploma PLC with a strong The Group generated strong free cash cycle, sustainable attractive margins and and experienced group of senior business and flow of 40.3m 2014: 37.8m, with tighter strong cash flow.
The Board also confirmed financial managers who have the potential to control over working capital providing record the ambition of accelerating growth through provide leadership in the coming years.
an active acquisition programme, utilising Capital expenditure increased to 4.3m the Groups strong cash resources and Results 2014: 2.2m with increased investment in experienced management to enhance value.
Group revenues increased in 2015 by 9% to productive capital represented by facilities, 333.8m 2014: 305.8m, with acquisitions healthcare field equipment and seal cutting In September, Iain Henderson informed us of completed during the year contributing machinery and tooling.
his decision to step down from the Board at the 24.2m and adverse currency movements Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 03 Adjusted EPS growth pence TSR growth TSR index 2010 100 Dividend growth pence 1 1 1 % p. a.
Building momentum It was a much stronger year for acquisition increase on 2014.
The dividend is well covered Employees activity with the Group investing 37.8m by adjusted EPS at 2.1 times, in line with the Since being appointed Chairman earlier this 2014: 16.5m in new businesses during the Boards objective of targeting towards a two year, I have endeavoured to visit the Groups financial year, extending the Groups activities times level of cover.
businesses and meet our employees who into new products and geographies in line are so important to the success of the Group.
with the Groups strategic objectives.
Shortly Governance I have been impressed by the hard work and after the year end the Group completed the We have this year completed the process of loyalty that our employees demonstrate to acquisition of WCIS, an established supplier developing and refreshing the Board started each of their businesses and I wish to thank of sealing products and services in Australia by my predecessor in 2013.
In February we them for their efforts this year to deliver a high for a maximum consideration of 9.8m.
The strengthened the Boards resources with level of service as they strive to meet targets WCIS acquisition is another example of how the appointment of Andy Smith as a nonin the face of challenging markets.
the Group uses acquisitions to extend and Executive Director.
Andy brings excellent broaden its activities into new markets and experience to the Company having previously Outlook geographies.
held Group HR roles at Severn Trent PLC and The Groups strong and proven business model The Boots Company PLC.
delivered robust growth this year, benefitting The much higher spend on acquisitions in this from a good contribution from acquisitions and financial year, together with distributions of I was also pleased that Anne Thorburn despite adverse exchange rate movements.
19.7m 2014: 18.2m to shareholders during accepted our invitation to join the Board in This balance is expected to continue into the year, contributed to a reduction in net cash September.
Anne brings to the Company the coming financial year as the economic funds of 18.3m in the year to 3.0m at 30 many years of experience gained from Board headwinds continue to constrain organic September 2015 2014: 21.3m.
level finance roles in listed international growth in the Groups principal markets in industrial companies.
Anne will replace MarieNorth America and Europe, but prospects for Dividends Louise Clayton as Chairman of the Audit further acquisitions remain promising.
The robust balance sheet and strong free Committee, when she retires from the Board cash flow, together with a more favourable this month at the end of her term of office.
I While the Board remains cautious on the acquisition environment, has led the Board to wish to thank Marie-Louise for the support current macroeconomic backdrop, we remain recommend an increase in the final dividend and guidance she has provided to the Board confident that the Groups resilient business of 7% to 12.4p per share 2014: 11.6p.
Subject during the past three years.
model with a diverse geographic spread to shareholder approval at the Annual General of activities and strong financial position, Meeting, this dividend will be paid on 27 I am pleased that with the newly refreshed together with a more favourable environment January 2016 to shareholders on the register Board, we have a strong and experienced for acquisitions will provide a good platform to at 27 November 2015. team to support and guide the Group as it deliver further growth in the coming year.
pursues the successful implementation of the The total dividend per share for the year will Groups growth strategy.
John Nicholas be 18.2p 2014: 17.0p which represents a 7% Chairman 16 November 2015
