Dignity plc 04 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report From the Chairman Summary The high number of deaths in 2015 to some extent Greatest change in the number masks the fact that it was of deaths for over 60 years.
another good and consistent Underlying operating profit up performance by 16 per cent.
Dividend per share increased by 10 per cent again.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Overview David joined us following his retirement as This has been an extraordinary year, with the Chief Financial Officer of Synthomer plc, a % 34 number of deaths changing in percentage FTSE 250 group.
Given his recent experience, terms by a greater amount than any year since David has been appointed Chair of the Audit Underlying earnings per 1952.
As a result, the Groups funeral and Committee and will also sit on both the share up 34 per cent to cremation volumes were much higher than Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
However, I am delighted I am sure he will make a valuable contribution pence.
that across the country our standards did not in the coming years.
falter and that we continued to give families My thanks extend to the entire Board for its we had the privilege of helping, the excellent support and assistance in keeping the Group client service for which we are known.
14.31pence focused on its strategic objectives.
In financial terms, this has resulted in Our people Final dividend of 14.31 pence underlying operating profit increasing 16 per This year has been significantly busier for our proposed, continuing the cent to 98.7 million 2014: 84.9 million and staff than anyone could have imagined a year 10 per cent annual growth in underlying earnings per share increasing 34 ago.
Despite this, client service has remained the dividend per share.
Each member of staff has ensured Dividends that, in their own way, nothing was too much The Board is proposing a final dividend of trouble for each family we looked after at one 14.31 pence per Ordinary Share, bringing of the most difficult times in their lives.
Thank Our governance principles the total dividend for the year to 21.45 pence: you to each and every member of staff for another increase of 10 per cent on the your hard work.
If shareholders approve this Outlook for 2016 Continued close focus on delivering payment at the Annual General Meeting on our strategy.
The Group stated several times during 2015 AGM on 9 June 2016, then it will be paid on that, based on long-term historical data, there 24 June 2016 to members on the register at EFFECTIVENESS is a strong possibility the number of deaths close of business on 20 May 2016.
A strong, open and effective Board in 2016 may be significantly lower than 2015. with the independence of our Delivering a consistent performance The first two months of the new financial year Non-Executive Directors.
The high number of deaths in 2015 to some have not changed this view and therefore the extent masks the fact that it was another good Groups financial expectations for 2016 and ACCOUNTABILITY and consistent performance by the Group: client beyond continue to remain unchanged.
As a Close scrutiny and management service remained high: costs continued to be result, current market expectations are that of risks and controls.
controlled: cash continued to be invested in profit before tax in 2016 will be slightly lower REMUNERATION corporate activity, including the larger than than that reported in 2015.
Prudent oversight of executive normal acquisition of 36 locations from Laurel Nevertheless, the Group notes that achievement remuneration.
Funerals: crematoria opportunities have been of current market expectations in 2016 would developed: sales of pre-arranged funeral plans ENGAGEMENT mean earnings per share would have increased continued:and profits continued to be converted Maintaining a strong and open by approximately 30 per cent over the period efficiently into cash to fund these activities.
2014 to 2016, well ahead of the Groups As such, the investment case for shareholders continuing medium-term target of increasing of Dignity being a stable, predictable, cash earnings per share by 10 per cent per year.
Links Board priorities and changes See Governance and structure: During the period, Ishbel Macpherson left the p. 38 and p. 39 Board and was replaced by David Blackwood.
See Board of Directors: Ishbel has supported the Group since 2009 p. 40 and p. 41 when I became Chairman.
I am grateful for See Report on Directors her contribution over that time, both on the remuneration: p. 50 to p. 62 Board and as chair of the Groups Audit Committee since 2012.
