08 08 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT: WE ARE CREATING ONE OF THE BEST PERFORMING, MOST TRUSTED AND RESPECTED CONSUMER PRODUCTS COMPANIES.
Over the last two years we have taken the necessary steps to strengthen Diageo, to position our company to drive sustainable growth and value for you, our shareholders, and to ensure we are a trusted and respected partner to all our stakeholders around the world.
Diageo is a leader in beverage alcohol, one total dividend for the year to 56.4 pence Interim dividend per share of the most attractive growth sectors in per share, an increase of 9% over the prior year.
The final dividend will be paid to consumer products.
With our portfolio of global and local brands, and the presence shareholders on 8 October 2015.
Earnings 2 1.5p 9% we have built in developed and emerging per share to dividend cover at 1.6 times is markets, we are well positioned to capture now outside our cover ratio, and we will 31 December 2013: 19.7p look to rebuild cover over time, maintaining this growth.
Final recommended dividend per share dividend increases at a mid-single digit rate Performance and dividend until we are back in range.
In a volatile global environment, our commitment to being one of the best Strategic progress 34.9p 9% Diageos strategy is delivered through a performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies is as strong market focus.
In individual markets, we 30 June 2014: 32.0p as ever.
Ivan and the Executive Committee compete with our iconic global brands i Total dividend per share have taken actions to strengthen the and local stars while building strong routes business to deliver operational and cultural to consumer.
Our in-market teams are change, greater agility and responsiveness.
accountable for delivering holistic Performance this year reflects these actions performance and are empowered to act 56.4p 9% and continued tough conditions in some with speed and agility, supported by the Full year 2014: 51.7p markets.
In addition, currency volatility scale and expertise of our global business.
affected trading, especially in some of our As a business we have been focused on i Includes recommended final dividend.
scotch markets where currency devaluation organic growth while capturing inorganic impacted the price of imported goods for opportunities.
For example, we have been local consumers.
capitalising on North American whisk e y We are more focused than ever on trends with the launch of Crown Royal Regal managing cost and delivering cash, and Apple and the continuing success of Bulleit I am pleased that we achieved strong cash and our other craft bourbons.
We have also conversion, over 100%, during the year.
been broadening our participation in new This, together with the actions we are taking categories and across price points, with the to realise our full potential, has enabled the Orijin brand in Nigeria and Haig Club, a single Board to recommend a final dividend of grain Scotch whisky.
This would bring the S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 09 09 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT interests of the whole industry are served Diageo acquired a majority stake in United Sustainability and responsibility Spirits Limited USL in India in July 2014, Diageo has a long history of working within by the United Kingdom remaining within consolidating Diageos position as a local the communities where our products are a strong, reformed European Union.
leader in spirits in this exciting growth enjoyed, and we understand that the role Board changes market.
We are now moving into the next and impact of alcohol within society must Having been on the Board for nine years, phase of integration, prioritising brand be our primary focus.
Our work to promote Laurence Danon will step down at the investment, driving efficiencies and responsible drinking and reduce alcoholupcoming Annual General Meeting.
On your continuing the implementation of Diageos related harm remains central to our purpose behalf I would like to thank Laurence for operational and governance standards of celebrating life every day, everywhere, and her contribution over a period of progress across the business, while putting in place a we share the goal of the World Health and growth for Diageo.
In July 2015, we route to consumer team to further develop Organization WHO to reduce the harmful announced that Emma Walmsley will join USLs already impressive market coverage.
In line with the Board as a Non-Executive Director the industrys commitments, during the year In February 2015, we completed the effective 1 January 2016.
Emma is currently acquisition of the remaining 50% of tequila progress was made on underage drinking, Chief Executive Officer of GSK Consumer brand, Don Julio.
In gaining full global reducing drink driving and strengthening Healthcare.
ownership and management control of the marketing codes.
We are proud of the broad contribution brand and its supply assets, we enhance our Our people position in the high growth segments of we are making to society, through our Diageos success is in the hands of our 33,000 super and ultra premium tequila.
With this economic contribution and through our employees around the world.
I would like to deal we also repatriated the Smirnoff brand three community programmes: Learning thank them all for their dedication and hard for Life, Water of Life and Plan W. These into our in-market company in Mexico which work during the year.
We must create an will allow us to extend our leading position programmes have: provided training and environment that stretches and challenges in spirits in this attractive market.
skills to more than 100,000 people in the our people and enables them to do their We remain committed to reviewing Americas and Britain to help them secure best work, living our values each and every new jobs: delivered access to clean water our portfolio to ensure that we are the day.
I am committed to continuing to build best owners of our assets.
We realised full and sanitation to more than 10 million such an environment, and look forward to management control of Don Julio through people in Africa supporting better health: working with my colleagues on the Board the sale of Bushmills.
While Bushmills is a and empowered around 100,000 women and throughout the business to make sure across Asia.
And within Diageo, we continue good brand, this was the right strategic that we do.
decision for Diageo as we invest behind to champion diversity and inclusivity.
The sale One example of this is the level of female Looking ahead of the Gleneagles Hotels Limited is another representation at Board and Executive Your Board is confident that Diageo will Committee level, at 45% and 40% example of Diageos decision to focus on key deliver its Performance Ambition.
Following the success of the Ryder respectively.
last two years we have taken the necessary Cup we felt it was an appropriate time to steps to strengthen Diageo, to position our Business environment realise value through this sale.
We are company to drive sustainable growth and With our strong portfolio of Scotch whisky pleased that the new owner of Gleneagles value for you, our shareholders, and to brands, we have a deep commitment to has committed to be a significant inward ensure we are a trusted and respected Scotland built on the heritage of some of the investor in Scottish tourism and will work partner to all our stakeholders around industrys greatest entrepreneurs.
The closely with the local community to make the world.
current debate over the United Kingdoms a positive contribution to the visitor industry role within the European Union is one in and the Scottish economy.
which Diageo is actively engaged.
We want our Scotch whisky business, which makes a considerable contribution to the British economy, to remain competitive in the Dr Franz B Humer global marketplace and believe that the best Chairman Diageo share price rebased to 100 Global volume share of premium spirits Diageo share price performance FTSE share price rebased to 100 % Share price pence 35% 300 26% 250 200 17% 6% 150 6% 10% 100 Diageo Bacardi Beam Suntory Pernod Ricard Brown-Forman Others 50 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Impact Databank, February 2015
