12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chairmans statement Drax is the world leader in biomass technologyand I am excited by the opportunities this will present the Group.
In my first year as Chairman it has certainly Many years ago Drax recognised that to limit More than ever Drax been challenging for the Group.
However, the climate change would require an eventual end has demonstrated the progress we made to complete our conversion to the use of coal generation that is why we to a predominantly biomass-fuelled generator embarked on our transformation to become essential role it can was excellent and more than ever Drax showed a predominantly biomass fuelled generator.
play in the UKs future the essential part it has to play in the UKs energy mix.
In 2010 our power station burnt almost 10 million tonnes of coal.
Because of The operational performance across the our transformation by 2015 we had business was strong and in 2016 we will lowered this to six million tonnes.
complete the transformation we began some 10 years ago.
The business we have today is But we dont want to keep burning coal and more diverse, built on a dedicated supply chain we dont have to.
and backed by world-leading innovation and technology.
It continues to deliver around 8% Greater use of sustainably sourced biomass is of the UKs electricity needs, while providing the fastest, safest and most affordable means an excellent service to our retail customers.
by which the UK can move away from coal and support greater use of wind and solar in the future.
Political and regulatory changes During the year the government applied the With the right policy frameworks we could Climate Change Levy CCL to renewables and become 100% renewable through the full announceda potential timeline for the closure conversion of our three remaining coal units 4.
The former had a and we could do this well before 2025.
We will significant negative impact on our 2015 results, continue to work closely with the government reducing EBITDA by an estimated 30 million, The reduction in annual coal use to help them quickly reduce the UKs reliance and this impact will be double for 2016. in tonnes since we started our on coal.
biomass transformation 1 00% Our renewable output if we upgrade the second half of our power station to biomass Philip Cox CBE Chairman Strategic report Drax Group plc 13 Annual report and accounts 2015 In accordance with our dividend policy, the Critical infrastructure Our people Board proposes a final dividend in respect Drax remains an essential part of the energy I have reflected on some of the challenges of2015 of 0.6 pence per share, equivalent to mix.
Our ability to generate reliable, affordable, we faced during the year, but there were also 2million.
This would give total dividends for renewable power and deliver this to a broad many positives, several of which are described the year of 23 million 2014: 48 million.
range of customers places the Group at the in this report.
This is in large part down to the heart of the UKs power generation.
In turn, this dedication and hard work of our people, in Corporate governance creates long-term value for our shareholders every part of the business.
We are fortunate At Drax we are committed to excellent we remain focused on optimising this value to employ a workforce with a diverse range corporate governance and given the changes as well as remaining alert to opportunities for of skills and experience, unified by their and challenges experienced during the year growth.
In this regard we await the outcome of commitment to decarbonising the UK and in theBoard and Committees remained very the EU State aid decision during the year.
Details can be found in the Corporate Securing the Contract for Difference CfD is a working with them over the year ahead.
GovernanceReport on page 56. key component of our investment case.
Finally, I would like to say how delighted I am The year ended with a number of changes to the to be Chairman of Drax.
The Company is at a Results and dividend Board.
My predecessor Charles Berry left after pivotal point in its development, coinciding Our earnings EBITDA for 2015 of 169 million our AGM in April.
Tony Quinlan left the Group in with a critically important time for UK energy were, as expected, below those of 2014 229 June and was replaced as CFO by Will Gardiner, policy.
We are confident and determined million.
This result was adversely impacted by who joined us in November.
Paul Taylor and thatour reliable, renewable and affordable the dramatic fall in commodity prices and the Peter Emery, both executive directors, resigned generation and supply will be at the heart of loss of Levy Exempt Certificate LEC income at the end of December, with Andy Koss UKenergy for the long term.
from August, but it is pleasing to note that the appointed to the Board effective from 1 January shortfall this created was partially offset by our 2016.
I would like to thank Charles, Tony, Paul and self-help measures.
Our capital investment Peter for their contribution over many years of programme 174 million was delivered on service and welcome Will and Andy to the Board.
schedule, whilst we retained strong control over operating costs.
The refinancing of our We have an effective Board with 400 million Revolving Credit Facility helped complementary skills, knowledge and usmaintain a robust balance sheet.
We will continue to look at how Chairman we can strengthen this mix during the year.
22 February 2016 Generating up to 8% of the UKs electricity Essential to the UK Reliable and flexible contributions to the national grid Significant contribution to UK decarbonisation targets 1 Leveraging world-leading biomass technology Expertise and innovation Delivering high quality, fit for purpose infrastructure Providing products tailored to customer needs 2 Highly efficient and robust operating assets Industry leading operational Flexible units, able to be dispatched on demand performance Well integrated, optimised supply chain 3 Well controlled cost base and targeted capital investment Cash generative operations and well controlled working capital Robust balance sheet Appropriate levels of credit and established debt facilities 4 Dividend policy to distribute 50% of underlying profit Commitment to capital returns 5 Investment case
