"Strategic Report 1 Chairman's Statement "" I am delighted to report another year of excellent performance by DS Smith."
"We have delivered strong growth in volumes, profits, margins and returns, in a market that is still tough. """
Total shareholder return, which is a measure PERFORMANCE DIVIDEND combining growth in the share price with the I am delighted to report another year of The Board considers the dividend to be benefit of dividends, has grown 343 per cent, excellent performance by DS Smith.
We an important component of shareholder considerably out-stripping the FTSE 250 at have delivered strong growth in volumes, returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver 93 per cent over the same five year period.
profits, margins and returns, in a market a progressive dividend, where dividend that is still tough.
cover is between 2.0 and 2.5 times, through OUTLOOK the cycle.
For the year 2014 15, the Board As usual, on behalf of the Board, I would I am particularly pleased with the way that recommends a final dividend of 7.7 pence, like to thank all my colleagues throughout the business has continued to re-shape.
which together with the interim dividend DS Smith for their dedication and hard work Since the acquisition of SCA Packaging in of 3.7 pence gives a total dividend for over the past year.
That commitment has July 2012, which transformed the business the year of 11.4 pence per share 2013 14: resulted in the great results for the year, into a genuinely pan-European business, the 10.0 pence per share.
This represents an and the growth in market share that we are principal focus has been on integration and increase of 14 per cent on the prior year and seeing across our business.
We see significant the delivery of substantial synergies.
With cover of 2.1 times in relation to earnings per opportunities for the business in the coming that programme complete, over the last 12 share before amortisation and exceptional year and are confident of future success.
months DS Smith has acquired businesses in items adjusted EPS, in line with our policy.
Italy, Spain, and in the high growth region of south eastern Europe.
These businesses are Looking back over the past five years I am focused on our core enterprise of recycled particularly proud of the consistent growth packaging.
We have also been investing in and returns to shareholders.
Adjusted new sites, such as those for the plastics EPS has grown at an average rate of 34 business in both the US and Europe.
At the per cent each year, with the dividend per same time, some non-core businesses have share growing similarly at 29 per cent.
Gareth Davis been disposed of, releasing capital that can Chairman Total shareholder return be deployed elsewhere.
500 343% While we have done this, we have continued 400 to deliver on our key performance indicators, See p 44 for more information with our margin now at the top end of our on Governance 300 target range.
I am delighted to confirm that 93% 200 this medium-term target is now being raised by 100 basis points, reflecting both the 100 performance of the business and also 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 our aspiration for the future.
DS Smith FTSE 250 Index dssmith.
