Chairmans Statement Andy Harrison Chairman I am delighted to report to you for the Will Adderley will revert to his previous Strategy development first time as Chairman of your Company.
role as Deputy Chairman and will remain In February, we announced a renewed Dunelm is a strong business with an actively involved in the business.
The focus on growth, with an ambition to enviable track record of success.
I look business will benefit greatly from the increase the scale of our business by forward to working with the Board and combined and complementary skills 50% over the medium term.
The core the executive team to create further of John and Will, and I look forward to elements of this strategy are described value for all stakeholders in the years to working with them both.
more fully in the Chief Executives review.
We will be joined in December this year Board changes by Keith Down as Chief Financial officer, Financial performance and Let me start by thanking my predecessor, when David Stead retires from the shareholder distributions Geoff Cooper, who led the Board as Board.
David has been with the Group It is pleasing to report that the business Chairman for eleven years through for 12 years and has been a fundamental has maintained its record of growing Dunelms IPO in 2006 to the end of contributor to the growth and success of sales and profit every year since IPO in the last financial year.
Over this time the business during his tenure.
Headline sales over the 52 week the business has grown tremendously missed by his colleagues and we all wish period to 27 June 2015 amounted delivering a compound annual growth him well with his future plans.
to 822.7m, an increase of 12.7% on in sales of 11% and a compound annual the prior year: over the 53 weeks to 4 Keith brings a wealth of experience in growth in EPS of 15%.
Shareholders July which are covered in our statutory financial management, much of it gained have benefitted from this success with numbers, sales amounted to 835.8m.
in the quoted retail and hospitality a total shareholder return of over 700% PBT amounted to 121.4m on a 52 week sectors.
I am confident that with his since IPO.
Geoff has been pivotal to our basis 4.7% growth and 122.6m for 53 drive, experience and character he will success, and his leadership of the Board weeks.
play a central role in the execution of our has been inspirational.
On behalf of all growth strategy, and I look forward to my Board colleagues, I would like to During the last year the Board agreed a welcoming him to the Board.
thank him for his enormous service to new capital policy under which we intend Dunelm.
to operate with a level of net debt within There were also a number of changes the range of 0.25 0.75 times historical amongst my Non-Executive colleagues.
The last financial year also saw a change EBITDA.
Implementing this policy led to Matt Davies resigned in January when of Chief Executive.
In September the payment of a special distribution to he agreed to take on an executive role 2014 Nick Wharton left the role of shareholders of 70p per share in March at Tesco plc.
The Board greatly valued Chief Executive after three years.
Further special distributions will be Matts contribution during his tenure of conducting a full external search the considered if net debt falls consistently nearly three years and we wish him well Board reppointed Will Adderley, who below 0.25 EBITDA.
had previously been CEO between 1996 and 2011, to the role.
At the time of this In addition to the above, the Board is appointment John Browett was a top recommending an increase in the final external target candidate, and we were dividend to 16.0p per share FY14: delighted when John became available 15.0p, bringing the total ordinary to join Dunelm earlier this year.
John dividend for the year to 21.5p FY14: joined the Board as Chief Executive 20.0p.
This is consistent with our policy Designate on 1 July 2015, and he will of maintaining ordinary dividend cover in become Chief Executive in January 2016 the range of 2.0-2.5, with cover for the following an induction period working year of 2.2. with Will and the broader senior team.
A more detailed review of the financial John brings an excellent combination performance is provided in the CFOs of business leadership together with review.
outstanding retail skills across a breadth of sectors, from grocery and electrical goods to fashion.
He also brings proven experience of applying technology in multi-channel operations which will help us accelerate our digital plans.
com Stock code: DNLM 6 STRATEGIC REPORT We were pleased to welcome William Outlook Reeve to the Board in July as a NonWe are at a very exciting time in our Executive Director.
We enter a new chapter of entrepreneur and investor, who cogrowth with a refreshed executive team, founded LOVEFiLM.
com and has been led by John, and supported by Will, actively involved with a number of who are two of the top retailers of their other successful online businesses.
We also have a great team have long searched for someone who across the business, with continuing has both an entrepreneurial mind-set passion for giving our customers great and deep digital experience, who can products, great value, and great service.
William ts Dunelm has an outstanding track record these requirements very well.
We are and is in great health.
We look forward also pleased to be able to announce to reporting on our further progress, the appointment of Peter Ruis as a Non-Executive Director.
Peter has deep Andy Harrison experience in the retail sector, with Chairman particular expertise in marketing.
He is 10 September 2015 currently Chief Executive of Jigsaw and prior to that worked with John Lewis Partnership and Ted Baker.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 7
