Chairmans letter Continuing to deliver JOHN BARTON, CHAIRMAN Returns to shareholders DEAR SHAREHOLDER Last year the Board announced its policy to increase the Reflecting another year of growth, I am pleased dividend payout ratio to 40% of profit after tax, in line with the broader market.
After another successful year we are pleased to report that your Company has delivered to recommend a dividend for the year of 55.2 pence per share, record profit for the fifth year in a row, with an increase of 22%.
profit before tax up 18% to 686 million.
People As always, our people have again made a significant contribution Celebrating 20 years as a business to the success of the business.
I would particularly like to thank easyJet celebrated its 20th birthday in November 2015.
It is those on the front line, who sustained high standards of remarkable how far we have come in this short period of time.
customer service throughout the year.
We continue to dedicate We have grown to become the second biggest short-haul airline resource to attracting the right people for the business and in Europe, carrying almost 70 million passengers a year and we in the development and retention of our existing employees.
are now an established FTSE 100 company with 4.7 billion of It is the strength of our people that will enable us to meet revenue.
Over the 20 years we have retained our entrepreneurial our ambitious objectives for the future.
spirit and maintained our focus on providing customers with excellent service at a reasonable cost, the main reason for On the Board, we have recently welcomed Andrew Findlay as our success.
our incoming Chief Financial Officer, joining the Company on 2 October 2015.
I would like to thank Chris Kennedy for his Strategy significant contribution to the successful growth of the Company Our strategy remains focused on delivering market-leading in the last five years and wish him success in the future.
innovation in customer service, whilst establishing a network of routes and frequencies that benefit from strong demand.
Conclusion We continue to see a number of opportunities to grow in a We believe that our business model and strategy will deliver profitable and disciplined way and our announcement of an long-term value to shareholders.
Our clear focus is to fulfil our agreement with Airbus to take delivery of an additional 36 customers needs via a network of airports, routes, frequencies A320 aircraft will help us to capitalise on these.
and slots that is unrivalled in European short-haul aviation.
This, combined with our fleet expansion plans, gives us a significant There have been several regulatory developments in the year.
opportunity for future profitable growth and increasing shareholder We are engaging with the European Union to address efficiency returns.
We look forward to another 20 years of success.
in a new EU Aviation strategy, including overall regulatory structure, air traffic control, regulated airports, levies and taxation.
We were pleased with the Airports Commissions final report in July recommending that the Government expand its aviation capacity in London.
We are also encouraged to see the Government engaging on Air Passenger Duty, against a backdrop of evidence that clearly indicates that an increase JOHN BARTON in air passenger traffic is a contributor to economic growth.
Non-Executive Chairman easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 8
