Chairmans introduction Welcome to our report.
Trading performance Underlying sales adjusted for trading days and currency movements grew by 3.5%, with growth improving slightly from 3% in the first half of the year to 4% in the second half, mainly reflecting better growth in Continental Europe.
North American revenues grew by 10%, benefiting from a healthy economy, strong growth in automation and control products and eCommerce sales.
Sales growth in Continental Europe improved from 2% in the first half of the year to 7% in the second half of the year, averaging 4% over the year.
The management actions taken in France, our largest Continental European market, brought the business back into sales growth in the second half.
The Asia Pacific business We were pleased to welcome Lindsley saw growth of 4% during the year with Ruth as Group Chief Executive on 1 April good growth in Greater China and South 2015.
Lindsley has spent much of his East Asia, partially offset by a slowdown in first few weeks in the Group visiting our Australasia.
operations, meeting the team and talking to UK performance remained poor with sales our suppliers and customers.
The UK market remains joined after our financial year end, this difficult for us, as it does for a number of Annual Report and Accounts will not contain other companies operating in our industry.
As a The Board does not believe this performance result my report is slightly longer than usual is acceptable and the UK will remain an area and covers some of the issues normally of urgent Board and management focus.
addressed in the Group Chief Executives section.
An introduction to Lindsley and Headline profit before tax fell by 21% with 8% his initial observations on the Group are points of the decline due to fewer trading days included on pages 12 and 13. and the strengthening of Sterling.
At constant trading days and exchange rates, profit before Our 2015 financial performance was tax was down by 13%, with gross margins disappointing, with investment not yet down 1.3% points and costs up by 3.6% as delivering the expected step up in revenue planned investment in the strategy continued.
growth and the UK business remaining in Anticipated mix effects resulting from abovedecline.
Neither sales growth nor gross average growth in lower-margin geographies, margin reached expected levels, whilst costs such as North America, and lower-margin continued to grow.
Headline profit before product categories, such as semiconductors, tax was down 21%, with 8% points of this reduced gross margins by 0.5% points.
The decline due to adverse exchange rates and balance of the decline resulted from increased fewer trading days.
Overall, performance discounting in regions including the UK and was not good enough and something we are Asia Pacific and the impact of exchange rates.
Lindsley will review the business, strategy and its implementation Headline free cash flow during the year and lay out his plans in November on how was 52.3 million compared with 58.3 to deliver a sustained improvement in million the prior year.
Free cash flow as a performance.
Meanwhile, actions to address percentage of sales at 4.1% was at the underperformance are being intensified.
lower end of the parameters set out in our medium-term performance framework.
Return on capital employed of 16.4% was below the targeted range set out in this performance framework for more information on these KPIs please refer to pages 24 and 25. www.
com Stock Code: ECM 04 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report Strategy and medium-term business plans Governance Despite this performance, the Board remains confident in The Board and its committees continued to work effectively the underlying Electrocomponents business model and fully throughout the year to monitor the implementation of supports Lindsley as he assesses the changes needed to the the Group strategy, ongoing business performance and strategy and operations in order to achieve significantly better compliance with Group policies.
There is more detail in the performance.
Corporate Governance report on pages 50 to 57.
In the past year, further progress has been made in The internal Board evaluation led this year by the Company implementing the strategy including One Global Offer and Secretary built on the findings of the external exercise eCommerce with a Human Touch.
Over a quarter of our carried out in 2014.
The results and recommendations, product range is now available globally against 10% a year as well as the completed actions arising from last years ago, whilst eCommerce sales grew at 6% and amounted evaluation, are reported on page 55. to 59% of Group revenues.
The global rollout of our SAP Adrian Auer stood down as a Non-Executive Director on systems was completed with its implementation in Japan.
30 June 2014 after five years on the Board.
I would like We continued to improve eCommerce search capabilities to thank him for his incisive contributions to the Boards and began investment in a global inventory planning tool and discussions.
Having reviewed the issues facing the business a new web platform.
More details on progress can be found in the coming years, the Nomination Committee decided it in our strategy section on pages 10 and 11. would benefit from appointing someone with current digital experience.
I am therefore delighted that Bertrand Bodson Group Chief Executive appointment will be joining the Board with effect from 1 June 2015.
As mentioned earlier, Lindsley joined us as Group Chief Bertrand, who is Belgian, is currently Chief Digital Officer at Executive in April.
He has many years of highly relevant Home Retail Group and brings to us considerable relevant international experience in the distribution sector and a digital experience, as well as increasing Board diversity.
strong track record of driving sales, margins and international growth.
More details on his background and his first thoughts After seven years Rupert Soames stood down as Chairman upon joining Electrocomponents can be found on pages 12 of the Remuneration Committee on 1 August 2014. and 13.
We are confident that he has the skills, experience However, I am pleased to say that he continues on the and attitude needed to address the factors that have held Board as a Senior Independent Director.
John Pattullo has back the performance of our business and deliver improved taken over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
results for shareholders, customers and suppliers alike.
Corporate responsibility After 13 years in the role, Ian Mason stepped down as As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, corporate Group Chief Executive on 31 March 2015.
On behalf of the responsibility is integral to our business.
Our greatest Board and his colleagues, I would like to thank Ian for his focus is on our employees, through ensuring a safe and stewardship of the Company over that time and wish him healthy working environment and engaging them fully in success in the future.
our business, strategy and operations.
We are also strongly committed to being good citizens, playing a full part in the Dividend communities in which we operate and controlling our impact The Group has a strong balance sheet and the Board on the environment.
The Board provides clear leadership recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders and in all these areas.
More information on our approach to is therefore proposing an unchanged final dividend for the corporate responsibility can be found on pages 34 to 41. year of 6.75 pence per share.
This will be paid on 28 July 2015 to shareholders on the register on 26 June 2015.
The total Employees dividend for the year will therefore be 11.75 pence per share, The success of the Group in its ability to grow and achieve resulting in headline earnings dividend cover of 1.1 times.
its ambitions is dependent on the talents and efforts of all our employees.
The Board is always impressed by the Current trading commitment of our employees and is especially grateful In the first seven weeks of the new financial year the for the way they have dealt with the uncertainty around a Group has delivered sales growth of 4%.
The International change of Group Chief Executive.
On behalf of the Board, I business grew by 6% and the UK declined by 1%.
Within would like to thank them all for their continued commitment International, Continental Europe grew by 11%, North and enthusiasm.
America grew by 4% and Asia Pacific declined by 1%.
Sales growth in Continental Europe has continued to be strong Peter Johnson whilst North American sales growth was affected by the Chairman recent weakening in US manufacturing output.
21 May 2015 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 05 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
