Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 03 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Chairmans Statement Robert Walker Chairman uncertainty and we remain engaged I am pleased to present our results pub analysis and planning is well in the consultation process relating to for the financial year ended 30 underway and each of the new the detail of that code.
The Group achieved operating models has been created.
positive like-for-like net income growth Our intention is to keep the markets Dividend for each quarter and an increase of and our investors fully informed We continue to use free cash flow 0.8% for the full year.
The business about our progress in executing the to meet our debt repayments and has now delivered nine consecutive strategy, with key events planned to fund business growth in order to quarters of like-for-like net income over the coming years.
generate value for shareholders by growth.
As a result, profit before tax Meanwhile, the past year has seen sustaining operational progress and to and exceptional items for the 2015 the successful implementation of deliver the new business strategy.
The year was 122 million which delivered many initiatives in our leased and Board believes it is not appropriate to adjusted earnings per share of 19.4p, tenanted estate, enhancing publican resume the payment of dividends at 2.1% ahead of the previous year.
profitability and mitigating business this time.
This strong performance has provided failures.
We have continued to the platform for us to undertake dispose of under-performing assets, Board of directors the most fundamental review reinvesting the proceeds to drive We welcomed Marisa Cassoni as a of our business model since the like-for-like net income growth and non-executive director on 1 April 2015.
Company was established in 1991. improve the financial returns of our Marisa brings a wealth of financial Work commenced on this review retained estate.
In the new financial experience with consumer-facing in April 2014 and the outcome was year we expect to generate around businesses, further strengthening the presented together with our Interim 65 million from the disposal of Board.
Covering properties which we do not judge can Employees and publicans the next five years, it represents deliver an adequate return, and plan a sustainable long-term strategy to invest approximately 70 million in Our engaged and hard-working that embraces different operating our retained assets, targeting growth employees and publicans are critical formats for our pubs in order to best projects.
We conducted our serve our publicans, employees and second employee engagement survey The Group continues to proactively communities in which our assets are in the year which reported a further manage its debt profile.
It will also deliver significantly increase in the overall satisfaction and beginning of the year we completed greater value to our shareholders by engagement of our team.
It is equally the partial refinancing of 249.5 optimising the returns from each of pleasing that publicans in our leased million of the 2018 corporate bonds our assets.
Underlying the strategy and tenanted estate continue to and introduced a new revolving bank is a comprehensive analysis of the include many award winners.
I would facility which helps to smooth and consumer habits, demographics and like to thank them all for their hard extend the debt maturity profile and competitive environment of each of work during the past year.
reduce the cost of borrowings.
Debt our pubs, and a thorough evaluation reduction has continued and in 2015 Outlook of the best operating model for we reduced net debt by a further Trading in the new financial year is in each pub, embracing fully managed 84 million, with total net debt at 30 line with expectations and we expect all the way to free-of-tie, rent-only September 2015 of 2.3 billion.
to maintain the growth momentum agreements.
achieved in the last few years at the In March 2015 the Small Business, Since announcing the strategy in same time as delivering the longer Enterprise and Employment Bill May, it has received widespread term evolution of our business.
This heralded shareholder endorsement and the future introduction of a Statutory support.
R M Walker Code and an independent Adjudicator Chairman to regulate the relationship between Execution is clearly critical and I am 16 November 2015 a small number of large pub pleased to report good progress companies, including Enterprise, and in this regard.
Additional and their tied tenants.
Royal Assent has experienced management has been brought some closure to a period of added to the senior team: pub by www.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 3 07 12 2015 17:24:11 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
