COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER Dear Shareholder, In its first year of Drive for 2020, it is I strongly believe that good governance disappointing that the performance of is founded on the core values and As previously announced, following the overall Group has been significantly behaviours established by the Board and ten years of service, I shall be retiring impacted by downturn in the global oil communicated throughout the Group.
at the 2016 AGM as Chairman of the & gas industry, with a sustained low oil price Essentra continues to promote a strong Board and a Non-Executive Director.
and the consequent effect on drilling culture of the highest standards of business I was appointed in 2005 when Essentra activity having a materially negative ethics, based on clear principles.
The Boards first listed as an independent company, impact on the performance of our PPT participation in the Companys compliance and over the course of my tenure I business.
Indeed, having visited the opening training programmes, and its commitment have seen the Company grow and of our new, state-of-the-art headquarters to the development of new governance strengthen significantly.
I am pleased in Houston in 2012, I have seen first-hand policies and practices, serves to ensure that to report that I will be leaving an the excellence of the site and its hardsuch standards are clearly understood and experienced Board under the working employees, and I would like to pay reinforced by the tone from the top.
tribute to the resilience of the entire team in securing business wherever possible in The continuing strong compliance During my time as Chairman, I have visited a very challenging environment.
programme helps to reassure the Board numerous sites around the world and had that, as Essentra continues to grow in the opportunity to meet many of our During the year, two new Non-Executive size and complexity, we have in place the employees, and have consistently been Directors were appointed, firstly Tommy appropriate people, culture and processes impressed by the dedication, commitment Breen in April and latterly Paul Lester to fully exploit the opportunities for further and enthusiasm of my Essentra colleagues.
as Chairman Designate in December, balanced, profitable growth which are both of whom bring a wealth of experience available, and to mitigate effectively the 2015 saw the completion of a number of to Essentra, gained across a number of risks to which the Company is exposed.
value-creating acquisitions, most notably different industries and in increasingly that of the Clondalkin Specialist Packaging senior strategic and operational roles.
In We have made a solid start to Drive for Division which significantly increases the addition, and consistent with the Groups 2020, and I am confident that the Board Groups position in the specialist secondary succession planning, Stefan Schellinger was will continue to focus on the successful packaging market for the pharmaceutical, appointed to the position of Group Finance execution of Essentras strategic objectives health and personal care industries.
Director in October: Stefan joined Essentra in 2016 and beyond.
While the afore I would like to take this opportunity of in 2013 as Corporate Development Director, mentioned challenges in the oil & gas formally welcoming all new employees in which role he was responsible for industry resulted in a c. 30m decline in to the Essentra Group.
These acquisitions developing Essentras corporate strategy, revenue and material reduction in have already been successfully integrated, including leading the Companys mergers operating margin for our PPT business, the and have enabled Essentra to continue and acquisitions activity and successfully Group has nonetheless delivered balanced, to expand its geographical footprint and completing a number of transactions.
profitable organic growth, complemented enter new or improve its penetration of by value-adding acquisitions in 2015.
Indeed, existing targeted end-markets, including Given the number of changes to the the Boards confidence in the resilience and the US, the Netherlands, Spain and Poland composition of the Board in 2015 and the prospects of the Company is underscored in healthcare packaging, Malaysia and prospective change in Chairman it was by the recommended 13% increase in the Thailand in security seals and Australia not considered appropriate to commission dividend per share consistent with in components.
a Board evaluation during the year.
Essentras commitment to paying a progressive dividend to shareholders.
