22 Strategic report Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Introduction This was a year of progress for Experian, which saw us lay out our key strategic priorities for our development and long-term future.
Don Robert Chairman I am pleased to report that this was Some of our brightest minds in data our big competitive advantages is that a year of progress, which saw us science, for example, are pioneering our capabilities are highly portable: they lay out our priorities for Experians breakthroughs in our Data Labs in operate in the same way wherever we development and long-term future.
North America and the UK, utilising choose to deploy them, making it possible We have again raised our full year unique data assets and solutions to for us to sell almost anywhere in the world.
dividend, by 5% to 39.25 US cents per help clients understand their customers At the same time, we are starting to see share and in January we announced a and prospects in higher definition, results from the moves we have made to US$600m share repurchase programme, and optimise the outcomes of complex address some of the challenges faced by underlining our commitment to strong business challenges.
We are offering our Consumer Services business in North capital stewardship.
more services to businesses, with America.
I am delighted by the reception sophisticated products, as well as Our strategic priorities US consumers have shown our flagship expanding our footprint amongst the In todays faster, more complex world, brand, Experian.
com, which we further army of small to medium enterprises vast quantities of data are created every strengthened with the addition of FICO SMEs around the world.
Against this backdrop, we offer Scores to our credit reports.
This initiative helping SMEs with their ambitions to our customers fresh ideas, based on was supported by a creative, new, highly trade overseas, through our Global the best and most accurate data, and successful advertising strategy.
As I look Data Network which provides access to find innovative new ways to analyse and ahead, I am excited by the host of new international data.
While our roots lie in providing ideas and plans we have in store to add credit information to assess the risks of In US healthcare one of our fastest even greater value to the people who look lending, today we do much more.
As well growing markets we see many to Experian to help them in managing their as acting for lenders, we serve individuals, opportunities to help hospitals and financial lives.
governments, telecommunications physicians better manage their revenue The role we play companies, the automotive sector, US cycles which are related to the medical hospitals and many other industries.
I am delighted Our measures of success have always by the excellent progress we are making stretched far beyond financial ones.
At Earlier this financial year the Executive with our products now, which are in use the heart of our organisation is a strong team, led by Chief Executive Officer, Brian in more than half of all US hospitals.
sense of responsibility and pride that we Cassin, who assumed the role in July We know we can expand further, as we play a profound, positive role in the lives of 2014, laid out our key strategic priorities, introduce our fraud detection, data and millions of people from all backgrounds.
through which we aim to deliver attractive analytics, and other products and services For society, our products and services earnings growth and superior returns.
I to help US consumers better manage the create new opportunities for people to get am pleased to report that we are making growing cost of their healthcare.
fair and affordable access to essential, excellent progress, dealing with some of everyday services that many take for the challenges that have arisen, whilst With the global fraud epidemic costing granted.
And we help millions of people at the same time opening up a host of businesses billions every year, we are each day to improve their financial status, exciting and high-quality opportunities finding new ways to help our clients so they are in the best position to get to grow.
protect themselves and their customers credit in a way that treats them fairly and from this most serious of threats.
One of have peace of mind against identity fraud.
Strategic report Chairmans statement 23 Highlights Full year dividend Share repurchase programme 39.25 USc US$600m Revenue CO e reduced by Volunteering hours 2 % US$4.8bn 17 39,139 For businesses and organisations, we Effective governance is more than In our local communities, we again gave help to find meaning in all the data they adherence to a set of rules.
It provides back more of our time than ever before, accumulate, to create better outcomes an appropriate control framework, within to help those most in need.
Our people for their business and build stronger, which we have developed and can pursue volunteered 39,139 hours of their time long-term customer relationships.
We are our strategic priorities, to create long-term during and outside work last year.
acutely aware that our role has never been shareholder value.
And risk management Environmentally, we continued to reduce more important to the people whose lives is at the heart of effective governance: it our impact, with a corresponding benefit we touch.
Throughout this years Annual is central to how we operate, and we have to our business efficiency.
Initiatives Report you can read their stories, in their put in place governance processes that to consolidate our offices and cut our words, about the difference we make.
enable us to manage the risks facing the business travel have helped us achieve our The role we play is clear: we help people business, create value and deliver returns carbon reduction target ahead of schedule.
and businesses to protect, manage and to our shareholders.
You will read later in make the most of their data, to help build the Corporate governance report about A winning team, an exciting future stronger economies and communities.
our governance activities during the year, Our continued success owes a great including the Board evaluation process, deal to the outstanding efforts of an Strong and effective governance the induction of our new directors and the exceptionally talented global workforce.
I would like to take this opportunity to activities of the Board and its committees.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Alan Jebson, who will retire as a thank everyone at Experian for the skills, Recognising our responsibilities non-executive director at the conclusion passion and commitment they bring to our of our Annual General Meeting in July, I have mentioned our role and our sense company.
The range of high-quality growth for his wise counsel and his outstanding of purpose and responsibility to society, opportunities in front of us are as strong leadership of the Audit Committee.
Our corporate as they have ever been, while the role we joined the Experian Board immediately responsibility agenda embodies these core play in peoples everyday lives has never following the companys flotation values and the year saw us help millions of been more important.
on the London Stock Exchange, and people through our programmes.
has contributed greatly to Experians In the second year of our global social framework of controls and risk innovation programme, we helped management.
The year also saw important 2.6 million more people to get fair and Board changes take place.
Brian Cassin affordable access to essential, everyday was appointed as Chief Executive Officer services.
We did this by investing in new and we were delighted to welcome Lloyd products and services, which you can Pitchford, who succeeded Brian, as our read about in this report.
Our impact in Chief Financial Officer.
Kerry Williams also this important area saw us receive Future joined the Board, in his new role as Chief Champion status for corporate citizenship, Operating Officer and we welcomed Jan at the UK National Business Awards held Babiak as non-executive director.
As part in London in November.
of a smooth transition, all four are already making a significant contribution to the Board in their new roles.
