F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Chairmans Statement Chris Russell Chairman 2015 was a positive year for the Company as it continued to build on its strong long term record.
With a new ten year loan at a significantly lower interest rate in place and the next continuation vote aligned to the maturity of that loan, the focus for the year was driving income and value creating asset management rather than any further corporate change.
The share price, which had been predominantly trading at a double Performance for the Year digit premium to NAV for the last two years, fell significantly in the The net asset value NAV total return for the year was 15.9 per cent last quarter of the year and was at a discount of 0.6 per cent at and the share price total return was 2.8 per cent.
The total return the year end.
This is consistent with lower expectations for capital from the portfolio was 14.3 per cent, which compares favourably growth in UK commercial property values and this trend has been with a total return of 13.3 per cent from the Investment Property experienced by the other companies in the sector.
The UK commercial property market is continuing to deliver good The share price at the year-end was 134.4p, representing a discount performance but there are signs that investment momentum may be of 0.6 per cent to the NAV per share of 135.2p.
There are concerns about pricing, particularly in London, and The following table provides an analysis of the movement in the NAV the market is entering a phase of the cycle where yield compression per share for the year: and the rate of rental growth are both expected to level off.
Pence Borrowings and Loan Refinancing The Company entered into a 260 million ten year loan agreement NAV per share as at 31 December 2014 122.1 with Legal & General Pensions Limited L&G on 31 December Unrealised increase in valuation of direct property portfolio 13.8 2014, refinancing its previous 230 million bonds and a 30 million bank loan.
The L&G loan carries a fixed interest rate of 3.32 per cent Realised increase in valuation of direct property portfolio 0.3 per annum.
The Company also has a 50 million bank loan with a Increase in valuation of interest rate swap 0.1 term to 28 June 2017 on which the interest rate is fixed, through Other net revenue 4.9 an interest rate swap of the same notional value and duration, at 4.88 per cent per annum.
The Groups total borrowings amount in Dividends paid 6.0 aggregate to 310 million with a weighted average interest rate of NAV per share as at 31 December 2015 135.2 3.57 per cent per annum.
Gearing, net of cash, at the end of the year was 19.0 per cent.
Performance in the year was driven by capital growth in the portfolio of 9.2 per cent.
The strongest returns were experienced in the Dividends and Dividend Cover logistics and industrial sector in the South East with the logistics big Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid box properties performing particularly well.
during the year maintaining the annual dividend of 6.0p per share and providing a dividend yield of 4.5 per cent based on the year-end In absolute terms, the most significant contributors to returns were: share price.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the Board intends London, St Christophers Place Estate reflecting yield that dividends in 2016 will continue to be paid monthly at the same compression and rental growth on all elements of the Estate.
Manchester, 82 King Street - a number of the vacant office floors The Companys level of dividend cover for the year excluding capital in the property were refurbished and let.
gains on properties was 80.6 per cent, significantly ahead of the London, Cassini House, St Jamess Street - reflecting the 50.5 per cent cover achieved last year.
This is as a result of net strength of investment demand and strong rental growth.
income increasing by 15.4 million in the current year, the majority of Southampton, Upper Northam Road, Hedge End there was a which was attributable to the following: letting of a vacant unit to Amazon during the first half of 2015 on a new 10 year lease.
8 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 9 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 71-77 Wigmore St, Reduction in interest costs 10.5 million London W1 Increase in rental income 4.1 million Reduction in non-recoverable property expenses 0.9 million Exceptional refinancing expenses in 2014 0.6 million Increase in Investment Management fee 0.7 million Refinancing the debt has provided the largest contribution towards the increased level of dividend cover.
The portfolio has, however, also benefited from additional rental income, with a full years rent being received from the Prime Four Business Park offices in Aberdeen, significant upward rent reviews at the offices in Cassini House, London and two vacant floors being let in Alhambra House, Glasgow.
Board Composition As reported last year, the Board is going through a period of change.
Two new independent non-executive Directors, Peter Cornell and David Preston, were appointed on 1 May 2015 with Nick Tostevin, who had been a Director since the Companys launch in 2005 and Chairman of the Audit Committee, retiring from the Board at the close of the last Annual General Meeting on 28 May 2015.
At the same time, Trudi Clark was appointed as the new Audit Committee Chairman and Martin Moore was appointed as Senior Independent Director.
The Board has consisted of seven Directors since May 2015.
In order to facilitate a smooth transition, the stated intention has always been that one further long serving Director would retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2016.
Accordingly, Brian Sweetland, who has been a Director since 2005, will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 2 June 2016.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Brian for all the time and effort he has put in over the economic and political environment.
There is also the forthcoming years: he has made a valuable contribution towards the ongoing EU referendum which adds a further level of uncertainty and success of the Company.
may lead to inactivity in the investment market and indeed the This year the Company conducted an external board review that occupational markets.
has helped clarify the optimum approach to board succession and There is a general consensus that returns will now revert to identified areas of potential improvement in board process and being more income driven following three years of strong capital performance.
Rental growth is expected to be positive at the allproperty level, particularly on prime assets, but rates of growth are Annual General Meeting expected to moderate over the next few years.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.30pm on Thursday 2 June 2016 at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, The Company has always adopted a prudent, low risk approach to Guernsey.
The Notice of the Meeting is contained on pages 59 investment and as a consequence, has a high quality portfolio with to 61.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting are a modest level of borrowings.
There exists a number of opportunities requested to complete and return their enclosed Forms of Proxy.
within the portfolio to enhance returns further and this remains the focus of management activity with the objective of enhancing the Outlook total return on the existing assets and continuing to build dividend There are clear signs that investors are adopting a more restrained cover.
approach to investing across all asset classes including commercial Finally, while the environment in the last several years has been property, which will have contributed to the re-rating of the positive for property investment, your Board and the Managers are Companys shares.
This restraint looks set to continue, given the mindful that this remains a cyclical business.
They are confident volatility of global financial markets and the international macrothat a continued, well integrated corporate and property investment strategy, combined with high quality portfolio and strong financial position, will enable your Company to take advantage of available There exists a number of opportunities opportunities that may be expected to emerge.
within the portfolio to enhance returns further and this remains the focus of management activity, with the objective Chris Russell Chairman of enhancing the total return on the 4 April 2016 existing assets and continuing to build dividend cover 8 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Report and Accounts 2015 | 9
