Chairman s statement FirstGroup is a very important company With a continued focus on to the customers and communities we serve.
Operating in five major divisions, execution and a commitment each a leader in its market, we provide to change, I remain confident vital transport links for millions of passengers that the Group will succeed across our core markets in the UK and in turning its attractive portfolio North America.
We are a significant of market-leading transport corporate employer with around 110,000 businesses into acceptable staff, and our services make a vital returns for shareholders contribution to linking people together, supporting the economic activity and as planned.
social well-being of the communities in which we operate.
John McFarlane Chairman Innovative, efficient and customer-focused transport services play anincreasingly important role in responding to the economic and environmental challenges of continued urbanisation, congestion anddemographic change.
FirstGroups portfolio of leading transport businesses is well positioned to provide the transport solutions needed, and as such has opportunities for sustainable growth and good financial returns in all of its markets.
All of this was clear to me when I took on the role of Chairman in January 2014, but it was also obvious that the Group had not been delivering fully on this potential forsome time.
Two divisions in particular, First Student and UK Bus, were delivering margins well short of their competitors, parts of the business had suffered from a lack of appropriate investment, and theGroup as a whole was not achieving acceptable returns for shareholders.
Turning this situation round has therefore been thekeypriority.
The multi-year turnaround programme we are executing is designed tosustainably improve the financial returns of the Group as a whole, mainly through more robust decision-making around pricing, productivity and capital allocation.
These areas are of particular importance in First Student and UK Bus, which together account for around two thirds of our annual capital investment budget and have underperformed.
With the support of shareholders through the 2013 rights issue, the Group has been able to reinvest in its future growth and commit to ambitious business plans that will deliver sustainable improvements in performance over the medium term, by addressing the Groups core challenges.
With improved balance sheet stability, anda strong and experienced Board of Directors providing challenge and support, the executive team have the platform to make the disciplined, long term decisions necessary to improve the Groups sustainable returns on capital and cash generation.
Over time this willreduce Group leverage and the associated interest burden towardsits optimum long term level, and increase shareholder returns.
As a matter of course, we continue to review alternative andadditional actions tocreate shareholder value, but nothing compelling has become evident to date.
04 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report During the year the Group has made important progress in several In some respects, the significant improvements in financial results keyareas.
In this respect, I would highlight in particular the success thisyear are a reection of past underperformance, and there remain ofFirst Students contract portfolio pricing strategy, as well as the anumber of headwinds to navigate, but I am confident that we are ongoing execution of the UK Bus turnaround plan, which has executing the most appropriate actions to return the Group to a successfully stimulated renewed passenger volume growth and is sustainably stronger long term position.
We have made encouraging beginning to capture yield.
Both of these key divisions have taken progress in the year, and some of the most important actions have important strategic steps to reposition themselves in their markets yetto manifest themselves fully in the financial results.
The improving forthe medium term, while also executing significant cost reduction financial results from First Student and UK Bus, our most capital programmes.
Continued disciplined execution over the coming years intensive businesses, reinforce our confidence in the future.
With a will be required to deliver the full benets of these important changes, continued focus on execution and a commitment to change, I remain but we are encouraged by the margin improvements these divisions confident that the Group will succeed in turning its attractive portfolio have delivered in the year.
Although Greyhounds performance this ofmarket-leading transport businesses into acceptable returns for yearhas been signicantly affected by the sharp fall in fuel prices in shareholders as planned.
thesecond half, we remain on track with its transformation into a Of course all of this progress is only made possible by the continued yield-managed, customer-oriented business, which will enhance commitment of our employees to delivering quality services for our returns from this division in the future, whatever the oil price.
On behalf of the Board I would like to In the year the Department for Transport DfT awarded us a contract extend my sincere gratitude to all our employees for their hard work tocontinue operating our largest rail franchise, First Great Western, to and dedication.
at least March 2019, and a contract to run First TransPennine Express Chris Surch will be retiring from the role of Group Finance Director on for an additional year.
We were disappointed not to secure the renewal 8January 2016, following his decision to step down from a full-time of the First ScotRail franchise, and were unsuccessful in four other bids executive role for personal reasons.
The Board has commenced but these were awarded at economic levels that were unacceptable aformal search for his replacement.
On behalf of the Board and tous.
We were and will remain disciplined in our approach to bidding everyone at FirstGroup I would like to thank Chris for his commitment for these significant contracts.
tothe transformation of the Group over the last three years.
We respect hisdecision to step down andhewill be leaving with our good wishes Overall, the Group is broadly where we expected to be at this stage for the future.
ofthe transformation plan, and has begun to demonstrate the improvements in financial performance that were clearly required.
In May I was pleased to welcome Wolfhart Hauser to the Board as a 1 Underlying Group revenue increased by 4.1%, but more importantly Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate.
He has an exemplary 2 operating profit increased by 13.3%, adjusted profit before tax track record of sustained value creation and is a highly experienced improved by 46.5%, and adjusted profit attributable to ordinary Non-Executive Director.
It is with regret that I am required to step down shareholders increased by 48.2%.
Adjusted EPS increased by 30.7%, from the Chairmanship of FirstGroup at the AGM in July, in order to fully less than attributable profit because of the increased number of shares dedicate myself to the task of bringing Barclays to full health.
However, following the rights issue.
Group ROCE was 7.8%, or 8.5% at constant with Wolfhart succeeding me as Chairman, I will be leaving FirstGroup exchange rates, a 0.3 percentage point improvement compared with in capable hands.
I wish him and all at FirstGroup well for the future.
Group cash ow, though still signicantly below our potential, was better than our initial expectations, and we expect the John McFarlane actions we are taking will increase this substantially over time.
In due Chairman course, the Boardis confident that the business plans being executed 10 June 2015 will return the Groupto a sustainable cash generative position, with the potential to resume payment of a dividend.
However at this stage of the Groups transformation, and having regard to the commitment to the capital investment programme and the importance of strengthening the balance sheet further, the Board considers it appropriate to continue torefrain from reinstating a dividend at this point.
1 Excluding impact of UK Rail franchise changes, non-recurring revenues inprioryear from UK Bus operations now sold closed and foreign exchangetranslation.
2 Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit before amortisation charges and certain other items as set out in note 4 tothenancial statements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
