Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chairmans Statement gold from old and current tailings of the In the past year we have witnessed a continued Fresnillo and Saucito mines.
The Juanicipio downward trend in precious metal prices, to levels not advanced exploration project in the Fresnillo seen in five years.
This has led to short-term operational District is moving closer to the development phase, with production expected to begin and financial challenges and raised long-term strategic in 2018. questions for our industry.
Exploration results were mixed, with a 4.2% rise in total gold resources and 1.9% decrease in silver resources.
Gold reserves remained relatively stable while silver reserves decreased 6.0%, mainly at Fresnillo and San Julin.
Our resource However, we have seen periods of increased the 2015 gold production to a base remains exceptionally sound, uncertainty and low prices before and record of 762 koz, 28% above the previous particularly given the lower silver prices believe that, with our high quality assets, year and strongly ahead of guidance.
conservative financial structure and ability Notably, at the time of our IPO in 2008 we to adjust operations and investments, had set a ten-year gold production target of The maturity of the Companys Health, Fresnillo plc has demonstrated its capacity 400 koz, which has been revised upward Safety, Environment and Community to meet these challenges, maintain solid several times due in part to the acquisition of Relations HSECR System progressed toward profit margins and continue to pursue its the remaining 44% of Penmont in 2014, and its 2016 targets, as determined by an long-term goals.
we have surpassed even that target.
Notwithstanding the significant reduction in fatalities over the Within this context we successfully ramped Development projects advanced largely past few years, it is with much sadness I up the Saucito II expansion, significantly according to plan.
In the second quarter report one fatal accident in 2015, and two ahead of the original three-year timeframe.
of this year we will commission the first fatalities in early 2016, a disturbing reversal This was essential to achieving the 4% rise in stage of the US$515 million San Julin mine, of our safety record.
It is the Companys silver production year over year, to the upper the key growth project to achieve our silver responsibility to ensure that everyone who range of our guidance.
In addition, we production target of 65 moz by 2018. works at our operations returns home safely reached steady state at Herradura, which Detailed engineering neared completion for to their family every day.
The Board will combined with higher throughput at Saucito, the pyrites plant, which will recover silver and Fresnillo is well placed to withstand volatility and lower precious metal prices Alberto Baillres Non-executive Chairman 06 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Fresnillo Today Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations always give the highest priority to safety Our goal is to create long-term shareholder It is with these priorities in mind that we issues and has overseen investigation of value, and I believe that this can be achieved scaled down our capital expenditures and these accidents, ensuring that management by balancing growth, corporate social exploration budget in 2015, and have begun takes action to improve safety systems and responsibility and attractive returns for our to implement our contingency plan in 2016 to practices.
I encourage you to review our shareholders.
The Groups dividend policy safeguard our financial position at a time of social and sustainability performance set out takes into account the profitability of the cyclically low precious metal prices.
on pages 66 to 86 for a deeper look at our business and underlying earnings, as well as Specifically, we have deferred equipment programmes and progress, as well as how its capital requirements and cash flows, orders for the planned pyrites plant and we intend to support the UNs sustainable whilst maintaining an appropriate level of development work at Orisyvo.
A total dividend of between continue to monitor market conditions closely 33 and 50 per cent of profit after tax is paid to evaluate the timing of reinstating these Revenues increased mainly as a result of out each year in the approximate proportion projects, or if further deferrals are required, higher production volumes and productivity of one-third to be paid as an interim dividend, and will act accordingly.
We have also directed improvements, which more than two-thirds to be paid as a final dividend.
This management to focus on further cost compensated for the 10.4% and 16.1% gives us the required flexibility to consider the reductions, productivity improvements and declines in our average realised gold and underlying cyclical behaviour of precious value preservation measures.
As a result, total metal prices.
adjusted revenues of US$1,583.3 million were The challenges we face today are real and 2.5% above last year.
Furthermore, the 19.2% The Boards governance agenda in 2015 was evolving, as we detail in our Market Overview average devaluation of the Mexican peso focused on the action plan based on the and Risk sections pages 16 to 17 and 36 to benefited peso-denominated production 2014 External Board Evaluation and in 47.
While there is little consensus on when costs.
However, profit attributable to equity response to UK Corporate Governance Code we might next see upside, I believe that our shareholders was US$70.5 million, down changes taking effect this year, most low cost operations, development project 35.0%, mainly due to the non-cash significantly conducting the assessment of pipeline and portfolio of exploration projects accounting effect of the devaluation of the viability for the preparation of the Viability constitute the solid foundations to drive Mexican peso on deferred taxes.
The Corporate Governance long-term shareholder value.
Report set out on pages 98 to 136 illustrates EBITDA of US$547.5 million was 3.5% lower the full range of Board actions in pursuit of Fresnillo is well placed to withstand volatility than in the previous year, while cash flow long-term shareholder value creation.
and lower precious metal prices and to reap from operations was a healthy US$542.9 the benefits of an eventual upturn.
For now, million, 346.5% higher mainly due to a The Board also continued to take an active we will focus on ensuring that our operations reduction in accounts receivable.
Our role in setting strategy, reviewing progress are working to their full potential, bringing year-end cash balance was US$500 million, against plan and ensuring management our new San Julin mine on line as planned, and net debt was US$300 million.
retains sufficient flexibility to respond to replenishing reserves and continuing to market dynamics and operational explore core districts.
After a comprehensive review of the developments.
Our role is perhaps most Companys financial situation, capital vital in the allocation of capital, and my It is in these challenging circumstances requirements, growth targets and the colleagues and I are aligned in seeking a when strong leadership is most deeply precious metal markets, the Board declared balance between growth, returns to our appreciated, and for this reason I wish to an interim dividend of 2.1 US cents per share shareholders and maintaining a strong recognise our management team and the and a final dividend of 3.35 US cents per financial position.
people of Fresnillo for their endurance, and share, totalling US$24.7 million.
my fellow Directors for their invaluable advice and support.
