Chairmans Statement GOOD PROGRESS IN CHALLENGING MARKETS 2015 has brought both good progress as well as new challenges.
It has been pleasing to see that the strategy which the new management team John Connolly developed towards the end of 2013 and began Chairman to implement in 2014 has been progressing still further over the last 12 months, with solid growth and improved productivity.
Our colleagues work in challenging The year under review environments and deliver complex 2015 has brought both good services, often in the public eye.
We progress as well as new challenges.
have high expectations of them to It has been pleasing to see that the do their very best for our customers strategy which the new management and to conduct themselves in a way team developed towards the end which is in line with the groups of 2013 and began to implement values and standards.
Regretfully, in 2014 has been progressing well there are some occasions when over the last 12 months, with solid our standards have not been met.
Revenue by region in 2015 In those cases, the board is satisfied The strong focus on investing in that management has taken prompt resources where they can be most action to adapt our processes and productive is clearly reflected in our oversight mechanisms.
Further the progress with the portfolio information about how we have rationalisation and better processes addressed some of these issues to ensure the returns and risks is available in our CSR Report.
associated with prospective investments and contracts are well Sadly, 46 of our colleagues lost understood.
Our chief executive, their lives in the course of their Ashley Almanza, comments on duties in 2015.
The board will all these matters in further detail continue to support fully the elsewhere in this report.
strenuous efforts which are being The corporate renewal process made around the group to ensure that all our employees enjoy the agreed with the UK Government, on which I commented in my statement safest possible working environment.
Africa 6% last year, has been implemented and The board has welcomed the Asia Middle East 21% much has been done to reinforce further progress in developing Latin America 8% the values that underpin the the management structure for performance of the essential Europe 18% the groups businesses around services which the group provides.
North America 24% the world and in recruiting high UK & Ireland 23% quality and experienced people to run these businesses.
4 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report The macro-economic environment UK corporate governance guidelines.
Management has continued to tackle remains difficult and in some parts In addition, Adam Crozier has decided a number of legacy issues effectively, of the world has become more not to seek re-election to the board including onerous contracts in the challenging.
I am heartened though this year.
UK and accounting issues in certain to see real progress in all the important businesses.
The effect of these legacy Since Marks and Adams departures strands of the groups strategy and issues is reflected in the onerous leave a number of roles to fill, and across the very considerable range contract provisions and the prior because the Nomination Committee of the businesses that make up year restatement of certain items.
would like to broaden further the the group.
This is covered in more detail in the range of expertise available to the CFOs review on pages 96 to 105. board, an exercise has begun to The board recruit two new non-executive The board has confidence in the The board has undergone further directors.
We have also announced groups performance and prospects change during the year and it is that John Daly will take on the and the directors propose a final important that we continue to refresh role of Remuneration Committee dividend of 5.82p DKK 0.5615 the boards capabilities, expertise chairman following Mark Elliotts per share, payable on 10 June 2016. and experience so that it can support retirement from the board.
With an interim dividend of 3.59p and challenge management in the I would like to thank Mark and Adam DKK 0.3793 per share paid on most effective way.
for their outstanding service to the 16 October 2015, the total dividend As announced previously, Grahame board throughout their time with for the year will amount to 9.41p Gibson stood down from the board the company and I would particularly per share 2014: 9.24p per share, in June 2015.
He made a great like to thank Mark for the support he an increase of 1.8%.
contribution to the group throughout has given me throughout my time his career and the board wishes him as chairman.
Our people well in his retirement.
The progress which has been I believe the current planned As also announced previously, Mark achieved over the last year came changes will result in a board Seligman, a non-executive director, about as a result of the efforts with a broad spectrum of skills also stood down from the board, of the groups management and and a diversity of experience and having served for nine years since he employees.
They provide vital background which reflects the wide was first elected.
Mark had handed services for the groups customers range of geographies and cultures over his role as chairman of the in what can sometimes be challenging which makes up this group.
Audit Committee to Tim Weller circumstances and I would like to prior to his departure and so Tim express my thanks for their continuing Financial performance has overseen the change to our new hard work and dedication.
The progress made in 2015 was external auditor, PwC, who were reflected in the groups underlying appointed during the year following financial performance.
Again, I would like to record the boards gratitude Revenue growth was 4% overall, John Connolly to Mark for his very valuable and that growth, combined with Chairman contribution to the board.
the success of restructuring and efficiency programmes, saw underlying John Daly was appointed to the operating profit increase by 5.7% and board in June 2015 and serves on underlying earnings increase by 14%.
both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
John has great experience in many of the markets in which the group operates: having held senior executive positions in Europe, the Middle East and Asia over some 20 years.
The progress which has been achieved over Mark Elliott is our Senior Independent the last year came about as a result of the efforts Director, Remuneration Committee chairman and is a member of our of the groups management and employees.
He has provide vital services for the groups customers in also been a director now since 2006 and so will be retiring from the what can sometimes be challenging circumstances board this year since his length of and I would like to express my thanks for their service means that he will no longer be considered independent under continuing hard work and dedication.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 5
