CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Strategic progress against our core objectives Our strategy We have a clear strategy which is serving Mike Turner CBE us well.
Our overarching strategic C Ch hairm airman an objective is to sustain growth above the market and the Board continues to shape the Groups strategic activities with a view to delivering that objective.
During the year, we approved the acquisition of Fokker Technologies Group B. V. and the associated debt and equity funding.
The acquisition of Fokker will add more than 20% to GKN Aerospaces sales and is closely aligned to our strategic objectives: it strengthens our leadership position in aerostructures to number two, allows us to access new technologies and extends our global footprint in aerospace with sites in China, Turkey, Mexico and the Netherlands.
The successful integration of Fokker will be an important objective for GKN Aerospace in 2016 but our people are experienced in this area.
While economic uncertainty continues, our business proved to be resilient with a pleasing set of results.
I am confident that our enlarged GKN GKN Aerospaces acquisition of Fokker and the Aerospace division is well positioned for success.
During the year, GKN Aerospace outperformance of our automotive businesses won new business with a total contract against their markets helped ensure continued value of more than $3.5 billion and strengthened both its position with progress against our strategic objectives.
Boeing and its relationship with Airbus.
GKN Driveline secured some 880 million of additional annualised sales in new and replacement business on important global automotive platforms, achieved a 5% organic increase in sales and maintained its profit margin above 8%.
GKN Powder Metallurgy increased its margin to 12% and entered into an agreement to form a joint venture in China, a key step towards becoming the first Chinese supplier of international grade powdered metal.
GKN Land Systems showed determination and had a reasonable year given dicult markets.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 8.7p 9.2% Total dividend per share Group trading margin excluding the impact of Fokker Dividend This year we will continue to emphasise People all that is good about GKN's strong In light of our performance during the year, Our people are key to the successful we have again increased our dividend culture, reminding our people what is execution of our strategy and we will important to us and what makes GKN such and are recommending a final dividend continue to identify, retain and develop of 5.8 pence per share, making a total of an enduring and successful company.
talent at all levels in GKN.
In a year that 8.7 pence per share for the year, an increase contained many external challenges, of approximately 4% over the prior year.
GKN employees have worked very hard Summary to deliver a satisfying set of results and I 2015 was a pleasing year.
We outgrew Board changes would like to take this opportunity to thank our automotive markets and made them for their hard work and perseverance.
Andrew Reynolds Smith stepped down aerospace acquisitions which position from the Board in September 2015 us well for the future.
As always, we to take up the role of Chief Executive worked hard on continuous improvement Risk at Smiths Group plc.
We thank Andy and cost control across the Group.
GKN I reported last year that we continued to for his contribution to the Group entered 2016 as a stronger company.
develop our risk management processes and wish him well for the future.
In 2015 we made further significant progress.
During the year Looking ahead We take succession planning very the Board expanded the remit of the Political and economic uncertainty is seriously and work hard to ensure that Audit Committee to include greater likely to have an effect closer to home we have a strong talent pipeline.
We responsibility for the review of risk in 2016 as the debate continues on the were pleased to be able to fill Andys management systems and controls.
UKs potential exit from the European role with an internal successor.
Phil The Committee subsequently reviewed Union.
However, with a clear strategy and Swash, latterly Chief Executive GKN three of our main operational risks sustained focus on operational excellence Land Systems, took over as Chief across all divisions: product quality, and technology, I am confident that GKN Executive GKN Driveline from September programme management and contract will continue to show its resilience.
Adam Walker assumed executive management.
These reviews represented responsibility for GKN Land Systems, a significant step forward in our approach in addition to his role as Group Finance and enabled us to develop further our Director, which will further strengthen risk management processes.
We also Adams operational experience.
Both Phil spent more time reviewing our strategic and Kevin Cummings, Chief Executive risks as well as discussing and setting Mike Turner CBE GKN Aerospace, were subsequently the risk appetite for the Group.
Chairman appointed to the Board in January 2016, having been members of the Executive Culture Committee since October 2014.
Their I reported last year that we had revised extensive operational experience and inour Code of Conduct to reinforce our depth knowledge of the Groups markets tone from the top and ensure that our will be a great asset to the Board.
employees know the behaviour that is expected of them.
We worked hard to ensure that the Code is engaging and easy to understand.
I am pleased to report that the Code was communicated to all GKN employees during the year and was very well received.
We continue to drive home our key message that in GKN we do the right thing.
GKN plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
