Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Chairmans statement The Group has made good progress in delivering the strategy and outlook set out to shareholders in May 2015.
For 2015, the Group has declared an I am pleased to report that the Group has 2015 highlights ordinary dividend of 80 pence per share demonstrated strength in multiple areas of and a special dividend of 20 pence.
A review of the work overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee is on page The current level of annual dividend of 88.
The Remuneration Committee has 80 pence exceeds the cash ows from operated in accordance with the binding p p our businesses.
However, the Board has Remuneration Policy, approved by 80 20 said it expects to maintain that level of shareholders in 2014.
The Remuneration payment for 2016 and 2017, which are 80p ordinary dividend and a special report can be found on page 102. important years of change.
During this dividend of 20p period, the long-term impact on cash ow We have been pleased to welcome two of the decline in Seretide Advair should new independent Non-Executive Directors become clearer but so should the benefit to the Board: Vindi Banga and Dr Jesse This is my first letter to shareholders and to cash generation of the growth of recently Goodman, as our Senior Independent I am pleased to report that the Group made launched products, the expansion of our Director Designate and a scientific and good progress in delivering the strategy Vaccines and Consumer businesses Medical Expert respectively.
I am pleased and outlook set out to shareholders in and reduced restructuring expenditure.
with the contributions they have made May 2015. already to the Boards deliberations.
Good progress has been made in the A clear element of the Groups strategy development of the companys operating Sir Christopher Gent retired from the is to deal with the decline in sales of model and R&D pipeline.
Both of these are Board as Chairman in May 2015 after over Seretide Advair which has for the best important for the long-term health of the 10 years at the helm of GSK.
He stood part of the last decade been the biggest company and the Board is encouraged by down at the same time as Tom fide Swaan source of profits to the Group.
This is a the level of innovation in the companys and Jing Ulrich.
However with the pipeline, with novel assets in development Executive Directors: Dr Stephanie Burns, investments that have been made in new across six core therapy areas.
Sir Deryck Maughan and Dr Daniel Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products we Podolsky will retire as planned at the A priority for the Board is to manage are now seeing an effective transition in 2016 AGM in May after completing over succession of executive management.
Hans Wijers has also After what will have been nearly 10 years decided not to seek re-election at our AGM It is also important for the Group to secure as CEO, Sir Andrew has indicated to the this year.
We have greatly appreciated all the sales benets and cost synergies Board his intention to retire from the their dedication, experience, the wealth of resulting from the recent Novartis company in early 2017.
The Board has knowledge and insights they brought to transaction, which was successfully agreed that he will retire on 31 March 2017.
Board deliberations over their years of completed in 2015.
The Board is closely This will be the culmination of 32 years of service on the Board.
monitoring the integration of the new service and leadership to GSK and the businesses acquired in Vaccines and industry.
We will thank Andrew more In closing, on behalf of the Board, I would Consumer Healthcare and it is clear formally for his tremendous dedication and like to thank Sir Andrew and his executive that management has made substantial contribution next year.
In the meantime, the team for their commitment and progress.
Board will now start a formal search for a performance in 2015. successor and will consider internal and external candidates for the role.
Philip Hampton Chairman 6 GSK Annual Report 2015
