Governance Chairmans introduction, Directors and Officers To this end, pilot studies were carried out at several Dear Shareholders, locations against a set of performance metrics which 2015 was a challenging year for companies operating in the we have developed to better understand our socio-economic resources sector, during which commodity prices fell sharply contribution.
These indicators allow us to monitor our as macro-economic uncertainties emerged and amplified.
contribution to communities and governments through the The second half of the year was particularly tough.
As the wages, taxes and royalties we pay, as well as the contributions scale of these challenges became clear, your Board acted we make to health, education and infrastructure.
We will be decisively, announcing a range of measures in September to rolling out these metrics across all operations in 2016. reduce the Groups debt significantly by the end of 2016.
During the year, Glencore became a member of the Plenary The sustained price reductions that we have seen for many of of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights our commodities have been the key drivers for the measures Voluntary Principles.
The Voluntary Principles bring taken by Glencores management team to strengthen the together governments, companies in the extractive sector and Groups balance sheet through the preservation of capital the non-government organisations to engage in dialogue on how reduction of debt and disposal of assets.
best to achieve the safety and security of operations through Glencore takes a disciplined approach towards market encouraging respect for human rights.
Where there is reduced or lower than expected implementing the Voluntary Principles at our operations demand for our commodities, we consider the curtailment or located in regions with a high risk of human rights abuse cessation of our supply of volumes to the market.
We are since 2013 and reporting on our progress in our annual committed to seeking to operate as profitably as possible, sustainability report.
Our membership will support our evenduring periods of demand weakness.
efforts to further progress our approach towards human rights and to share knowledge and best practice.
This year your Board has been involved in the making of a number of difficult decisions.
These decisions have not been We have set out on pages 78 and 80 to 89 the main activities of made lightly, especially as some have resulted in negative the Board and its Committees during the year.
I would impacts on our employees, host communities and highlight in particular: governments through the loss of jobs and revenues as the considerable work with executive management production volumes have been reduced and unprofitable undertaken during the last four months of the year operations closed.
Our local teams have been instrumental concerning the Groups balance sheet and ongoing strategy: in limiting the impact of these decisions, through regular engagement with impacted stakeholders and ensuring those the operation of the HSEC Committee which as well as employees leaving the Group were properly compensated.
continuing its primary objectives of better management of catastrophic risks and of safety practices and procedures, Glencores unique business model, as both a producer and has undertaken considerable work in a range of other areas marketer of commodities, enables it to extract value at every including the oversight of a major new assurance process stage of the commodity chain.
As a result, your Company is for sustainability risks and the launch of a social value better positioned than many to withstand the current creation score card: and commodity downturn.
the work of the Audit Committee, particularly on Tragically, ten people lost their lives at our operations during impairment analysis and consideration of the new longer- 2015.
Although this is a significant reduction on prior years, the term viability statement we are providing.
Board and I recognise that this is an unacceptable outcome: we are continuing our efforts to strengthen our safety culture at all Our response to the considerable challenges which the Group our operations regardless of their location or previous safety has faced over the last year reflects the strong leadership performance.
The number of people losing their lives while of the Groups management team and the continuous efforts working at Glencore sites continues to reduce year-on-year and of all of those at Glencore, who are working together to ensure I am confident that our ambition of zero fatalities is realistic the ongoing success of your Company.
We remain focused and achievable.
on operating efficient, low cost and safe operations which in combination with our excellent marketing businesses give I am very pleased to report that SafeWork has now been us confidence that the mediumand long-term fundamentals implemented at all of our assets and is delivering significant of our business continue to be strong.
Both our total recordable and lost time injury frequency rates have exceeded our collective target of a I and my fellow Directors thank you for your continued 15% reduction and the number of new occupational disease support of Glencore.
cases has reduced by 41% year-on-year.
As a business committed to delivering shareholder value, we recognise that we will only be able to successfully deliver this commitment through creating sustainable, long-term benefits Tony Hayward for all of our stakeholders.
Chairman 70 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 1 Leonhard Fischer 2 Peter Grauer 1 5 67 3 Patrice Merrin 4 8 23 4 Ivan Glasenberg 5 Anthony Hayward 6 William Macaulay 7 John Mack 8 Peter Coates Glencore Annual Report 2015 71 Governance Directors Anthony Hayward Chairman Age 58 Appointed: Anthony Hayward has been Following a series of technical and commercial  Chairman from rolesin Europe, Asia and South America, he returned May2013.
Prior to being appointed Chairman he to London in 1997 as a member of the upstream was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He became group treasurer in2000, chief executive for BP upstream activities Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, andmember of the main Board of BP in2003.
Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University Experience: Dr Hayward is non-executive chairman inBirmingham and completed a Ph.
D. at Edinburgh of Genel Energy plc LON:GENL, apartner and University.
He is also a fellow of the Royal Society member of the European advisory Board of AEA ofEdinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
the University of Edinburgh, Aston University and Dr Hayward was group chief executive of BP plc the University of Birmingham.
from 2007 to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a riggeologist in the North Sea.
Ivan Glasenberg Chief Executive Officer Age 59 Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in In January 1990, he was made responsible for April1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer theworldwide coal business of Glencore for both sinceJanuary 2002. marketing and industrial assets, and remained in this role until he became Chief Executive Officer Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, inJanuary 2002.
Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent three SouthAfrica and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy yearsworking in the coal commodity department from the University of Witwatersrand.
Mr Glasenberg inSouth Africa as a marketer, before spending also holds an MBA from the University of Southern twoyears in Australia as head of the Asian coal California.
He is currently a non-executive director commodity division.
Between 1988 and 1989, he was ofUC Rusal plc HKG:0486.
Before joining Glencore, based in Hong Kong as head of Glencores Hong MrGlasenberg worked for five years atLevitt Kirson Kong and Beijing offices, as well as head of coal Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
marketing in Asia, where his responsibilities included overseeing the Asian coal marketing business ofGlencore and managing the administrative functionsof the Hong Kong andBeijing offices.
Peter Coates AO Non-Executive Director Age 70 Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive He was non-executive director and chairman of Director since January 2014.
Prior to this he served Xstrata Australia from January 2008 until August asan Executive Director from June to December 2013 2009.
From April 2008 until April 2011, he was and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to non-executive chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. May2013.
Mr Coates is non-executive chairman of Santos Limited ASX:STO and Sphere Minerals Limited Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety, ASX:SPH and a non-executive director of Event Environment and Communities Committee.
Hospitality and Entertainment Limited ASX:EVT, Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 and a past chairman of the Minerals Council of asasenior executive in the coal department, Australia, the NSW Minerals Council and the MrCoates had occupied many senior positions in a Australian Coal Association.
diverse range of resource companies, including those Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree mining silver, lead, nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal.
inMining Engineering from the University When Glencore sold its Australian andSouth African ofNewSouth Wales.
He was appointed to the Office coal assets to Xstrata in 2002, he joined Xstrata as of the Order of Australia in June 2009 andawarded chief executive of its coal business, stepping down the Australasian Institute of Miningand Metallurgy inDecember 2007.
72 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Leonhard Fischer Independent Non-Executive Director Age 53 Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the executive board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 Committees: Chairman of the Audit Committee: toMarch 2007.
He joined CreditSuisse Group from member of the Nomination and Remuneration Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the Committees.
management board andhead of the Corporates Experience: Mr Fischer was appointed chief executive andMarkets Division.
Prior to this, he had been a officer of BHF Kleinwort Benson GroupS.
A. member of the executive board of Dresdner Bank AG formerly RHJ International S. A. EBR:BHFKB in Frankfurt.
inJanuary 2009, having been co-chief executive Mr Fischer holds an M. A. in Finance from the officer from May 2007.
He is a director of Kleinwort University of Georgia.
Benson Bank Ltd and chairman of the supervisory board of BHF-Bank AG.
William Macaulay Independent Non-Executive Director Age 70 Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed asan Mr Macaulay is a director of Weatherford Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011. International NYSE:WFT.
He also serves on numerous private energy company boards.
Committees: Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
A. degree with honours in Economics from City College of New York, Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and and anMBA from the Wharton School of the chiefexecutive officer of First Reserve Corporation, Universityof Pennsylvania.
He has also received aprivate equity investment firm focused on the anHonorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree energy industry, and has been with the company fromBaruch College.
Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private equity buyout firm.
From 1972 to 1982, he served as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer & Co. with direct responsibility for the firms buyout business.
He also served as president ofOppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Peter Grauer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Age 70 Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 ofDonaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive 2000when DLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse Director in May 2014.
FirstBoston and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking.
He served as managing director and senior partner Committees: Chairman of the Nomination of CSFB Private Equity until 2002.
Mr Grauer is Committee: member of the Audit Committee.
adirector of Blackstone NYSE:BX and Davita Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg Healthcare Partners NYSE:DVA.
Mr Grauer is also a Inc. the global financial media company that was member of the International Business Council of the founded in 1981.
Mr Grauer was chairman and chief World Economic Forum, and atrustee of Rockefeller executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a University.
member of Bloombergs board of directors since 1996.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of NorthCarolina and the Harvard University GraduateSchool of Business Program for Management Development in 1975.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 73 Governance Directors and Officers Patrice Merrin Independent Non-Executive Director Age 67 Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014.
Change and Emissions Management Corporation from 2009 to 2014.
She was also a member of the Committees: Member of the Health, Safety, Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy Environment and Communities Committee.
Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006 and from Experience: Following initial roles with Molson and 2003 to 2006 was a member of Canadas Round Table Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the on the Environment and the Economy.
Canadian diversified miner, for tenyears until 2004, Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queens University, latterly as COO.
She then became CEO of Luscar, Ontario and completed the Advanced Management Canadas largest thermal coal producer.
She is Programme at INSEAD.
currently a non-executive director of Stillwater Mining NYSE:SWC and Novadaq Technologies Inc. Nasdaq:NVDQ.
She has been a director and thenchairman of CML Healthcare then TSX from2008 - 2013, of Enssolutions, a mine tailing solutions company, and of NB Power.
John Mack Independent Non-Executive Director Age 71 Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an Mr Mack is a non-executive director of Enduring Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
He is also non-executive chairman of Tri-Alpha Energy Inc.
Committees: Chairman of the Remuneration Mr Mack also serves on the Advisory Board of Committee and member of the Nomination ChinaInvestment Corporation, is a member of Committee.
theInternational Business Council of the World Experience: Mr Mack previously served as chief Economic Forum, the NYC Financial Services executive officer of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International until December 2009.
He retired as chairman in 2011.
Mr Mack first joined Morgan Stanley in May1972, Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
becoming a board director in 1987 and was named President in 1993.
Before rejoining Morgan Stanley aschairman and chief executive officer in June 2005, Mr Mack served as co-chief executive officer of CreditSuisse Group and chief executive officer ofCredit Suisse First Boston.
Officers Steven Kalmin Chief Financial Officer Age 45 Appointed: Steven Kalmin has been ChiefFinancial Before joining Glencore, MrKalmin worked for nine Officer since June2005.
years at Horwath Chartered Accountants inSydney, leaving the firm as a director.
Experience: Mr Kalmin holds a Bachelor of Business with distinction from the University ofTechnology, Sydney and is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and NewZealand and the Financial Services .
John Burton Company Secretary Age 51 Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company Secretary in September 2011.
Experience: He was formerly company secretary andgeneral counsel of Informa plc and before that a partner of CMS Cameron McKenna in London specialising in corporate law.
A. degree in Law from Durham University.
He was admitted as a Solicitor in England and Walesin 1990.
