6 Chairmans Statement Bob Lawson Our genetic lead in our porcine and bovine products is underpinned by our R&D programmes p and we continued to strengthen our pipeline.
13.4 Final dividend per share in 2015 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 7 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION A Year of Strategic Delivery The latest evaluation of the Boards The Board is recommending Genus had a strong year in 2015, as performance confirmed that it a final dividend of 13.4 pence we delivered on our innovation-led continues to perform well and provides strategy and increasingly focused on per share.
the right oversight and guidance to the the larger scale commercial producers Group.
Following the appointments of of pork, beef and milk, who are most Professor Duncan Maskell and Lykele able to benefit from our genetic van der Broek as Non-Executive improvement.
We achieved particularly Directors, which we reported on last new thinking through our coveted strong profit growth, driven by an year, there were no further additions Chairmans Award.
This year, the award excellent year for Genus PIC in the to the Board in 2015.
During the year went to a team from ABS in North Americas.
Genus ABS grew sales both new Board members completed America, who devised Net Profit worldwide but higher product costs their induction and are already making Genetics, a programme challenging meant its profits were flat in constant a significant contribution.
The principal dairy customers to think differently currency.
Difficult conditions in China change from the evaluation has been about selecting sires for their and Russia held back Genus Asia that the Board has increased time herds.
The programme exemplifies but both markets now appear to be devoted to developing our strategy.
the spirit that runs through the exhibiting early signs of improvement.
Chairmans Award and I congratulate Professor Barry Furr retired as the team for its achievement.
Our genetic lead in our porcine and a Non-Executive Director at the bovine products is underpinned by our Annual General Meeting AGM in Providing Returns to Shareholders R&D programmes and we continued November 2014.
We were greatly The Board directs the Company to strengthen our pipeline.
During the saddened by his death in early 2015 on shareholders behalf.
Providing year, we continued to increase the and want to record our thanks for attractive returns on capital rate of porcine genetic improvement, his immense contribution to the and dividends to shareholders accelerated the production of highCompany during the eight years are therefore an important part quality dairy genetics through that Barry served on the Board.
our elite herds and conducted successful trials of our Genus Sexed More information about our corporate We are recommending a final dividend Semen GSS technology.
governance arrangements, including of 13.4 pence per share.
Combined details of the Board evaluation and with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence We also added to our capabilities our induction programme, can per share, this gives a total dividend in dairy and beef, through the be found on pages 54 to 83. for the year of 19.5 pence per share.
purchase of a majority stake in IVB.
This is an increase of 10% over last IVB will enhance our model in ABS, A Responsible Business year.
The final dividend will be paid allowing us to offer superior male and CSR is fundamental to our business on 4 December 2015 to shareholders female genetics through embryos and integral to every part of our on the register at the close of to our beef and dairy customers.
Its importance is reflected business on 20 November 2015. addition, we successfully completed in our vision pioneering animal the integration of Gntiporc, which genetic improvement to help Summary we acquired in the previous year, nourish the world which captures Genus performed strongly and acquired Birchwood Genetics.
Our during the year and continued to CSR Committee helps lead these successfully deliver on its strategy.
High-Calibre Leadership efforts, defines our CSR strategy The Board remains focused on the The Genus Executive Leadership and oversees the execution of this Groups leadership and talent, its Team GELT is now well established strategy.
Its members include our inR&D capabilities, the execution and we are seeing the teams impact house experts on animal welfare, the of its strategy, and overseeing across the business.
GELT is made environment, safety and employees.
up of highly qualified leaders, who The long-term drivers of our are working together to deliver our Genus employs over 2,600 people markets remain attractive and we strategy and tackle the issues we worldwide and I want to thank every continue to position the business face, through collaboration and by one for their dedication and hard work to benefit from this opportunity.
We continue to GELTs members bring deep sectoral invest in developing their skills and or functional expertise to the business, unleashing their talent, recognising Bob Lawson coupled with the strength of intellect that this underpins our service delivery Chairman we need to drive the business forward.
for customers and our ability to 7 September 2015 innovate.
We recognise exceptional Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
