CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Andrew Allner, Chairman The effective stewardship of the Group is enhanced by the wealth of experience and range of expertise of its members.
Together, we are committed to building a stronger Group for the future and delivering long term sustainable value to our shareholders and improving services for our customers.
GOVERNANCE Read more about our relations Our aim is to make a with shareholders positive contribution to the on page 62 communities in which we operate and wider society.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 4 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information I would like to thank Keith for the significant contribution he has made in his DEAR SHAREHOLDER four years with the Group.
The process to appoint a successor is well underway.
This has been another significant year for Go-Ahead and the Group remains There have been no other changes to the composition of the Board.
well placed to manage the challenges we face and embrace the opportunities that arise.
During the year, our strategy, underpinned by our stable business BOARD EFFECTIVENESS AND EVALUATION model, has delivered increased shareholder value.
In my role as Chairman, I strive to ensure your Board is highly effective and believe that regular and thorough review and evaluation aid continual PERFORMANCE development of the Board and its members.
The Group delivered good financial results in the year.
Our bus division achieved its highest ever operating profit, despite a number of headwinds, This year the Board made good progress in delivering against its 2014 15 and our rail division exceeded the Boards initial expectations.
priorities and has clear objectives for the year ahead, which are detailed on page 53.
The first half of the year saw the start of significant new rail contracts, including In addition to an internal Board evaluation, led by the Group Company GTR, the UKs largest franchise.
This has faced operational issues and constraints Secretary, in the first half of the year, an independent external evaluation of the associated with the Thameslink Programme from the outset.
Board took place later in the year.
Building upon the internal review, the theme Demanding economic and operating conditions in some of our bus markets of this review was forward-looking and developmental.
The review found good have resulted in a more testing trading environment and the Board now Board dynamics, open dialogue and constructive challenge, with a high standard expects to achieve the 100m bus operating profit target in 2016 17, a year of governance, and made a number of recommendations, including greater later than the initial target date.
Read about the performance of our bus and rail top-down consideration of risk and stakeholder management.
View divisions from pages 40 to 47 recommendations from the evaluation in the corporate governance report on page 61 DIVIDEND OUR PEOPLE ARE STRONGER TOGETHER The Group is in a good financial position with strong cash generation and Go-Aheads people are its most valuable asset.
During my regular visits to our a robust balance sheet, supporting our progressive dividend policy.
We are operating companies, and through my attendance at the Groups management committed to this policy, recognising the importance of the dividend to the conferences, I am continually impressed by the professionalism and dedication of investment decision of many of our shareholders.
our teams who are committed to delivering good services for our passengers, The Board was pleased to increase the full year dividend by 4.3% in the last from the executive management cascading all through the organisation.
financial year and, this year, proposes an increase of 6.5% to 90.0p per share Go-Ahead has always operated within a devolved management structure.
A final dividend of 63.4p per share 2014: 59.0p is proposed, We believe this is a real strength for the Group, empowering our people payable on 13 November 2015 to shareholders registered at the close of to make local decisions and respond quickly to the changing needs of the business on 30 October 2015. passengers and communities we serve.
We trust our experienced management The Groups dividend policy is to maintain dividend cover of approximately teams to run our companies effectively, while having robust processes in place two times adjusted earnings, on a pre IAS19 revised basis.
to ensure accountability back to executive directors and the Board.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our people who work GOVERNANCE hard every day to provide good services to our passengers and create value Your Board believes that the effective stewardship of the Group is for our shareholders.
View our people information on page 29 enhanced by the wealth of experience and range of expertise of its members.
Together, we are committed to building a stronger Group A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION for the future and delivering long term sustainable value to our As a commercial organisation, our aim is to generate value for our shareholders shareholders and improving services for customers.
while fulfilling our wider responsibilities to other stakeholders.
We support Our long-held view is that open and transparent disclosure is of vital economic growth, enabling over one billion passenger journeys each year, importance and we take our responsibility to present fair, balanced and carrying millions of people to work, schools and colleges, shops and leisure understandable information very seriously.
Once again, our commitment to activities every day.
We have over 26,000 UK employees and also make a best practice reporting was recognised at the 2014 Investor Relations Society significant contribution to the economy through the taxes we pay.
We are Awards, reflecting the communication of our investment proposition and our proud to be one of only two FTSE 350 organisations to be certified with the use of digital reporting channels.
Fair Tax Mark for responsible tax behaviour.
Go-Aheads companies play a key We continue to comply with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate role in the communities they serve and are vital to the future of UK public Governance Code, as outlined in our corporate governance report on transport.
Read about our relations with stakeholders on page 62 pages 52 to 85.
LOOKING FORWARD During the year, in accordance with best practice, we initiated a formal The year ahead will bring both challenge and opportunity.
We have a strong tender process for our external auditor.
At our AGM in October 2015, the management team in place and I am confident that together we will create Board will propose that Deloitte LLP will replace Ernst & Young LLP as the further value by continuing to deliver against the Groups strategic priorities.
A process of transition from Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP has been agreed.
As a Group, our focus remains on delivering the best possible experience for our customers and the coming year will see the introduction of new Following the year end, we consulted with major shareholders regarding initiatives across our businesses to further enhance the customer experience.
changes to our executive remuneration policy and, in particular, our long term incentive arrangements.
The proposed changes, which were developed to The Group has a stable portfolio of businesses upon which to build and a clear increase alignment between our strategy and the way we measure and strategy for the future.
I look forward to the next stage of Go-Aheads journey.
reward performance, include the introduction of customer satisfaction as a long term performance measure.
We know that providing high levels of customer service and a good customer experience is fundamental to our success as a leading transport operator.
We believe these changes are a Andrew Allner, positive step in better connecting the remuneration of executive directors Chairman to customer experience.
Read our remuneration report on pages 70 to 85 2 September 2015 In July 2015, it was announced that Keith Down, Group Finance Director, would be stepping down from the Board in late 2015 to take up a new external role.
