2 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report chairmans statement In 2015 we have made some important changes at Grainger, in terms of both the leadership of our Company and our future strategy.
professional who brings a wealth of Leadership Firstly, we had a clear message that our expertise gained from senior positions in drive to build the UKs leading private Robin Broadhurst served the Company property development, fund management with great diligence and skill prior to his rented sector PRS business was well and most recently, banking.
Helen was understood and that an increase in pace retirement in February 2015 after eight selected following a thorough search years as Chairman and we had intended was greatly welcomed.
We have been process in which we attracted many first working hard to accelerate our progress in that Ian Coull would succeed him.
The Board is looking ill health, however, Ian was unable to take this area during 2015 with some important forward to working with Helen as we acquisitions and development projects.
up the role and so when I was asked by my reshape the business during 2016 in line Board colleagues to take over, I was more We remain committed to our strategic with a refreshed strategy.
objective to build a substantial market than willing to do this.
I have now served Mark Greenwood has been our Finance on the Board for over seven years and leading PRS business.
Later in this report, Director for the last five years.
Mark is also we set out both the market opportunity have developed a deep admiration for the retiring this year and we are grateful to him Company and for the tremendous work See Market Environment and the risks for the important contribution he has made and challenges See Risk Management that our staff do to ensure that Graingers to our business during his time with us.
customers are well served in safe, secure associated with this strategy.
We are delighted to welcome Vanessa In order to accomplish this, our second and decent homes.
Simms as our new Finance Director Andrew Cunningham also signalled his planned change was to simplify our in early 2016.
She joins us from Unite business model.
Although Grainger has intention to retire in 2016 after nineteen Group plc, where she has been Deputy traditionally seen merit in diversification, years as a Director, the last six as Chief Finance Director since 2012, and brings it was clear that the overhead cost of such Executive.
Andrew will retire in early 2016, with her significant relevant PLC and real a strategy was high and that the business having seen the Company through the estate experience.
needed to be more focussed and play to financial crisis and consequent challenges our core competencies.
Accordingly, in for the property sector.
His steady hand 2015 we have been reviewing each of our andsound judgment meant that Grainger strategy business lines and where these did not fit came through the difficult period of 2007 When I took over as Chairman, I was with the future shift to a PRS portfolio, 2010 in very good shape.
Andrew will pleased to have the backing of so many be succeeded by Helen Gordon, a highly Shareholders for accelerating the pace regarded and very experienced property of change at Grainger, which consisted of making three important changes.
Strategic report Governance Financials 3 we would look to divest, thereby driving Our reversionary portfolio is still highly enhanced shareholder value.
We are well cash generative and, as these assets underway with the sale of our German naturally become vacant, we are able to assets, taking advantage of strong demand.
realise their full latent value.
This process We will continue this process where we will be important in ensuring that, as we are of the view that individual business lines grow our PRS portfolio, through both do not align well with our future move to acquisition and development, it can be PRS assets.
financed, in part, by recycling capital from Thirdly, as part of our on-going balance this reversionary portfolio.
sheet management we announced early this year that we were reviewing our cost Board of debt.
The majority of our debt was I am pleased to have had tremendous arranged in 2011 when lending markets support from my Board colleagues this were still feeling the effects of the global year and have worked closely with Andrew financial crisis, but as the term of this Cunningham and Mark Greenwood funding approached an end, we sought to implement the changes required to to take advantage of the lower costs of our business.
Each has accomplished so borrowing available in the market today.
much in their final months with Grainger.
Over the course of this year we have I wish them both well in their retirement.
refinanced our core syndicate debt as I would also like to welcome Rob Wilkinson well as a facility for one of our portfolios.
to the Board whose expertise in fund The average cost of debt at the year end management and real estate will replace is 4.6% which is more appropriate for our the contribution from Simon Davies, our strategic future business.
who retires from the Board this year.
objective to build In summary, our business will transition On behalf of the Board, I would like to over the next few years from a traditional thank Simon for his valuable input, and a substantial market trading model that was historically aligned we wish him well for the future.
Details of leading prs business with house price inflation to one that is the work and activities of the Board and its more income focussed, based on a market Committees over the last year are set out remains our leading portfolio of PRS assets.
The pace in the corporate governance section of our clearaim and shape of this change and the detail Annual Report and Accounts.
of the execution will be the priority for the new leadership team and a detailed review our staff of our strategy for accomplishing this shift Finally, I would like to thank all of the staff will be set out in the early part of 2016. at Grainger who deliver such an unrivalled service to our customers.
We never forget that we have many thousands of families that make their home with Grainger and we all take that responsibility very seriously.
The Board is very grateful to our staff for the tremendous effort they make each and every day.
Baroness Margaret Ford Chairman 19 November 2015
