Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans Statement growth, successful acquisitions and the continued expansion of our business through innovation.
The Board also remains focused on ensuring its own effectiveness and the effectiveness of governance processes throughout the Group.
It was therefore pleasing that the external Board evaluation this year highlighted the Boards strength and the value it brings to the Group.
During the year I was delighted to welcome Roy Twite and Tony Rice as non-executive Directors to the Halma Board.
Roy and Tony bring valuable and different perspectives to our discussions as well as very relevant engineering experience.
After 17 years of service, Neil Quinn retired from the Board in May2015.
I, and my colleagues, would like to thank Neil for his hugecontribution to the many businesses with which he has workedsuccessfully over a long period of time.
Neils leadership styleallowed businesses to flourish and retain their entrepreneurial spirit in true Halma style.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Stephen Pettit, ourSenior Independent Director, for his significant contribution and Structured for growth wise counsel to the Company over the last 11 years.
Stephen will This has been another successful year for Halma demonstrating retire at the conclusion of our AGM in July after agreeing to stay on thebreadth and strength of our portfolio of companies which foran extra year at last years AGM after we had two unanticipated arefocused on protecting life and improving the quality of life for Board retirements.
Further information on Corporate Governance is included on pages Last year we announced a significant organisation change in the 55 to 65.
Group into the four market sectors that we operate in and that the composition of the Executive Board was to be aligned with these Performance and dividend sectors.
I am pleased to report that the transition of the organisation This is the twelfth successive year of revenue, adjusted profit into this new structure has gone extremely well while at the same anddividend growth which reflects the efforts of our very talented timeretaining the important elements of local management and workforce in our businesses around the world.
The Board and entrepreneurship in the businesses.
We also believe that this structure Iwould like to thank all of our colleagues for their commitment provides more opportunity to improve succession planning for senior todriving innovative growth which in turn delivers great value management as there is clearer visibility of talent and emerging talent forourshareholders.
I am pleased to report that revenue for the year increased by 7% During the financial year we acquired three businesses in the Process 1 2014: 9% to 726m 2014: 677m with adjusted profit before tax Safety, Infrastructure Safety and Medical sectors for a total cost of increasing by 10% 2014: 9% to 154m 2014: 140m.
These businesses have been successfully integrated into their the profit increase coming from acquisitions, this sits nicely within our respective sectors and are all performing in line with our expectations financial KPI objective of achieving at least a 5% contribution from on acquisition.
It is encouraging that at the start of this new financial acquisitions and at least another 5% organically.
year, we have a strong pipeline of potential acquisitions.
Identifying Once again, the Board is recommending a final dividend increase suitable acquisitions is an important part of our long-term growth of7% which is 7.31p per share giving a total dividend for the year model and I believe that the Sector CEOs will broaden our M&A activity of11.96p.
The final dividend per share is subject to approval by as they focus on the future needs of the markets in which they operate.
shareholders at the AGM on 23 July 2015 and will be paid on The continuing success at Halma is a tribute to the outstanding 19August 2015 to shareholders on the register at 17 July 2015. efforts of our talented workforce and a culture that encourages Thismarks the 36th consecutive year of dividend per share innovation and strong local decision making.
In April 2015 we held our biennial leadership conference with 250 Summary people from around the business: this was a great opportunity for During a year of organisation change we have continued to make ourcolleagues and the Board to be involved and experience the great progress: strategically: operationally: and financially.
However development and innovation of products and services in the last year.
there is no complacency in the changing markets in which we This event has certainly created a healthy competitive culture to be operate.
Our priorities for 2016 are to continue to improve focus on themost innovative company in the Group.
In addition, the significant our customers and their needs through innovation and our go-toprogress that has been made in driving collaboration between the market strategies.
We are also upgrading our talent and education businesses, not only on a sector basis but also across sectors, was programmes to ensure we have the best people to meet the growing pleasingly evident.
The examples of businesses sharing technology demands of our customers.
A key component of this is toensure and know-how with each other, and case studies of how collaboration thatdiversity and inclusion are at the heart of our people agenda has enhanced product offering in the marketplace were numerous.
essential for a business operating in international markets.
Such an innovative culture and the success in our collaborative efforts create an important platform for future growth at Halma.
Finally I would like to, again, thank all of my colleagues for their considerable efforts in contributing to a successful 2015 and I look Governance forward to further progress in 2016.
The Board continues to maintain a focused and disciplined approach to governance and I believe that a strong governance structure can Paul Walker be one of the principal supports for producing outstanding revenue Chairman 1 See Financial Highlights.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3
