STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This was another year of strong revenue growth, this time against tough comparatives.
We are delighted to have exceeded 1bn Group Revenue.
Our strategy is also progressing well as we build a sustainable platform for future growth.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all I am pleased to report strong 11,000 of our colleagues for their enthusiasm and financial results for Halfords and commitment to the journey this business is on.
I further progress on our strategic would also like to thank both Matt Davies, who priorities.
1bn left at the end of April, and Andrew Findlay, who At the core of our strategy is customer service leaves later this year.
It has been a real pleasure and investment in our colleagues, proposition and working with both of them their contribution to GROUP REVENUE infrastructure.
In Retail, colleagues progressed Halfords has been outstanding.
well through their Gear 2 training and we have In May 2015 the Board appointed Jill McDonald more refreshed stores, launched Cycle Republic as Chief Executive Officer and we are looking and significantly strengthened authority in our key forward to the significant contribution she will categories.
Autocentres has a clear strategy under make.
She joins a business that I believe is in new leadership and has delivered an improved great shape, with significant opportunities ahead.
sales performance whilst continuing to invest.
The new financial year has started positively, with There is still more to do in both Retail and continued progress in delivering our strategic 7.0% Autocentres: FY16 will be a busy year of activity, priorities.
with the business supported by a tailwind of momentum and a strong, engaged team of Dennis Millard RETAIL LIKE-FOR-LIKE management and colleagues.
Chairman SALES 4 June 2015 The financial results for the year and confidence in the future prospects have enabled the Board to recommend a full year dividend of 16.5 pence, an increase of 15.4%.
OUR NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE Halfords is a business and a brand that resonates with me and so I was delighted when offered the opportunity to become Chief Executive.
In my first few weeks here I have been really impressed with the commitment and enthusiasm of our colleagues, and it is very apparent that the focus on delivering customer service excellence is becoming embedded in the DNA of the business.
Halfords has clearly made great progress on its strategic plans in the last year, and we will continue to deliver the priorities for FY16, as well as looking and planning further ahead.
I look forward to working with the entire team of management and colleagues to continue the positive journey that this company is on and to build upon it even further.
Jill McDonald Chief Executive Officer 4 June 2015 STOCK CODE: HFD 03 halfords.
