STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT PERFORMANCE & PROGRESS 1 growth of 25% and EPS growth of the clock, delivered around the world by 1 21%.
Taking into account this financial talented local experts.
This scale and breadth In 2015 we have delivered performance, and in line with our policy of makes us unique in the world of specialist a strong set of results building dividend cover towards 3x earnings, recruitment, and is a key driver of the the Board proposes to increase to the full Groups success.
with excellent operating year core dividend by 5%.
profit growth and a I and the Board have had the opportunity The Hays business is broad-based, well to visit many Hays offices this year in strong cash performance.
We have grown countries such as Germany, France and the into new geographies and new sector US and have, as ever, been greatly impressed We have also made specialisms, primarily through organic by the professionalism, talent and expertise replication of our business, supplemented of our people.
Everyone in the Group shares further strategic progress, by acquisitions when appropriate.
the same aim of making Hays the worlds notably completing the pre-eminent specialist recruitment business and their drive and commitment has This year we completed the acquisition acquisition of Veredus in underpinned this years strong financial of Veredus Corp. a US-based IT staffing and operational performance.
company, which has provided us with therefore like to thank everyone in the Group a great platform to build scale rapidly for their contribution over the last 12 months in what is the worlds largest recruitment 1 We delivered good net fee growth of 9%, and we look forward to another successful market.
This, along with our existing as we capitalised on continued strength year in 2016. worldwide operations, enables us to serve in the majority of our markets, further the needs of our multinational clients and improvements in the UK and a return to our internationally mobile candidates by ALAN THOMSON growth in Australia.
We converted this net offering them a truly global service around CHAIRMAN fee growth into excellent operating profit Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|5
