Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2015 7 Chairmans statement Home Retail Group is in a sound financial position thanks to a good set of financial results and its continued focus on liquidity.
The Homebase Productivity Plan has been Job opportunities depend on a thriving given added impetus by property transactions, business and achieving this requires continuing both in the year just ended and planned for the commitment to investing in the business and year ahead, which should see the Homebase maintaining the support of our shareholders.
property portfolio materially reduced to a more We have considered what an appropriate level efficient size by the end of FY16.
We anticipate of dividend should be in light of the years profit that the reductions to the end of FY16 will have and cash performance and we are recommending no material profit impact on the Group and will an increase of 15% to 3.8p.
be cash generative a very good result by Home Retail Group colleagues have long industry standards.
had a reputation for supporting charitable Digital technologies are transforming endeavours, both in the local community and businesses and communities.
I am delighted that colleagues efforts also have the potential to revitalise our high have raised over 3m for Alzheimers Society streets, as highlighted in the recent Digital High during the course of our two-year partnership.
Street Report 2020 published by the Digital We are proud to have contributed towards the Last year I reported that the Group was High Street Advisory Board, an independent creation of one million Dementia Friends by determined to continue to improve profits body which is chaired by our Group Chief 2015 as part of the Prime Ministers Dementia and in the year just ended it has done so.
Our Group is focused Challenge, with over 10,000 colleagues benchmark EPS has grown by 25% in spite of a on maximising the customer benefits of retailing becoming Dementia Friends during the two sales performance in Argos which, for a number through the internet while providing those years.
Macmillan Cancer Support has been of reasons, did not meet our initial expectations.
customers with the choice and ease of collection selected by colleagues to be our new charity These reasons are discussed in the Chief from stores as well as home delivery.
However, partner and I look forward to another successful Executives statement on the following pages with around 1,000 stores in our Group, the partnership.
and in other parts of this report.
cost in terms of business rates is significant My thanks go to all colleagues who have While there have been signs of underlying and so I am pleased the Government has worked and continue to work so hard on behalf of improvement and a return to growth in the UK launched a review of the impact and fairness shareholders.
I would especially like to mention economy over the past year, we have not yet of business rates.
Paul Loft who leaves the Group this year having seen any evidence of a broad-based economic The importance of improving digital been Managing Director of Homebase for the recovery.
In light of this, our focus on managing skills in our communities is one of the main last 12 years.
Pauls diligence and commitment both costs and gross margin, together with our recommendations of the 2020 report.
In the past have been first class and he leaves with our best ongoing cash management, were all critical in year we gave 8,000 customers the opportunity wishes.
At the same time, I am delighted to take delivering a good overall financial performance.
to learn digital skills with us.
Skills are key to this opportunity to welcome Echo Lu, who Cash management has been and remains improving employment opportunities and we has now assumed leadership of the Homebase critical to the current and future success of are looking to play our part in this important business.
Finally, thanks to my fellow directors Home Retail Group.
We are in the middle of area through apprenticeship programmes and, for their contribution as we focus on transforming an ambitious Transformation Plan in Argos following the success of the Homebase Garden the operations of the Group and continue to which requires significant levels of investment.
Academy, the launch of the Homebase Design strive for improved financial performance.
Much has been achieved, but much still remains and Decorating Academy this year.
Our plan to fund this investment looked to create opportunities to support those from internally generated resources remains John Coombe who need help to move into employment by soundly based.
At the same time we are pleased Chairman partnering with Remploy, Ready for Work, to announce that we have recently signed a new Gingerbread and The Princes Trust to provide financing facility from our banks which further work placements.
underpins the financial stability of the Group.
