Chairmans statement This is in addition to the 70m share repurchase programme CONTINUING STRONG PERFORMANCE 04 announced in February 2015, which has already returned Over the last two decades Howdens has evolved and grown 45m to shareholders.
to become the leading supplier of kitchens in the UK, focused on providing good service to small builders and value to all THE IMPORTANCE OF HOWDENS CULTURE concerned.
By following the precepts of a sound business model the company has survived and thrived in widely varying The principal reason for Howdens continuing success is its market conditions and created an excellent platform for unwavering adherence to its fundamental values of integrity, further growth.
fairness and respect for others.
The business has a strong and distinctive culture local, personal and entrepreneurial that I am pleased to report that your company had another very allows the individual to flourish and encourages exceptional good year.
Following an outstanding performance in 2014, performance.
This culture of service and opportunity has we reported a sales increase of 12%, together with a further stood Howdens in good stead and will continue to do so as increase in gross margin to 64.3% and continuing strong the business grows.
Howdens character and culture, which set the business apart Our goal as a Board has always been to make the right from its competitors, have been ably nurtured by a strong decisions based on the long-term opportunities for the executive management team under the leadership of Matthew business.
We are clear that, in order to fulfil its considerable Ingle.
Their stewardship of Matthews original vision and their potential, Howdens must continue to invest in both capacity collective commitment to the continuing evolution of the and capability through the economic cycle.
A programme of business mean that Howdens is well placed to go forward ongoing investment is under way across the Group, including with confidence.
in manufacturing, warehousing, distribution, depot operations and organisational development.
While the phasing of BOARD CHANGES this programme will take into account prevailing economic After nearly ten years as Chairman of Howdens I will be retiring conditions, we view it as an essential strategic undertaking from the Board in May 2016.
It has been a great privilege to that will support sustained growth and value creation in the chair the Board of this unique business and to be involved in years ahead.
In light of our performance and of our confidence in the In Richard Pennycook the Board has chosen an extremely prospects of the business, the Board is recommending a final able and experienced Chairman as my successor.
Richard dividend of 7.1p, bringing the dividend for the year to 9.9p already knows Howdens and its culture, and shares both 2014: 8.4p.
This is in line with our stated dividend policy, the commercial acuity and the values that underpin its past, which is set out in detail in the Review of Operations and present and future performance.
I wish him every success in Finance on page 13. his new role.
In addition, we have decided to return a further 55m of cash In July 2015 we were pleased to welcome Geoff Drabble to the to shareholders by way of a share repurchase programme Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Geoff is Chief Executive to be implemented over the course of the next two years.
Officer of the international equipment rental company Ashtead Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Group plc, and his experience of a business where local, The generosity of spirit they display beyond the workplace 05 timely, personal service is of prime importance brings a makes a tremendous difference to the lives of many people.
directly relevant perspective to the Board.
In 2015 our employees across the business were responsible for over 3,600 donations, in cash and in kind, amounting to a In December 2015 we were also pleased to appoint Andrew value of 1.9 million.
The full extent of our involvement in local Cripps as a Non-Executive Director.
Andrew is a Non-Executive communities is detailed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Director of Booker plc, and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
His extensive Board experience, and audit committee expertise in particular, will make a strong contribution to In the same Report we describe what we have done and are Howdens as it grows in reach and scale.
Andrew will take over doing to fulfil our responsibilities as corporate citizens in the as Chairman of the Audit Committee from Richard Pennycook broadest sense.
Howdens aims to promote safety, energyat the Annual General Meeting in May 2016. efficiency and environmental awareness, and recognises the importance of training, development and opportunities for Michael Wemms, who has given over nine years of unstinting young people, because all of these things directly reflect our service to the Board, has overseen the process of the own values.
Given the extent of changes to the Board, and in the interests of continuity, he has agreed LOOKING AHEAD to serve as a Non-Executive Director for one more year.
We will Howdens is facing the future from a position of stability and endeavour to use the opportunity of Michaels retirement from strength.
It has a capable and experienced management the Board to increase the diversity of our membership and team who are implementing a proven strategy that will deliver further enhance the mix and balance of background, skills further growth.
We remain watchful, given the increased and experience that are represented.
uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook.
The path Howdens is following is one which allows both continuity and GOVERNANCE change.
The business has the resources, the culture, the skills We aim to uphold high standards of governance in a and the strategic flexibility to allow it to take advantage of the constantly changing environment where perceptions, as well many opportunities that lie ahead.
as regulations, continue to evolve.
Our Corporate Governance Report on page 41 sets out our procedures and reports on our compliance record throughout the year.
Will Samuel Chairman PEOPLE AND RESPONSIBILITY 24 February 2016 Howdens people embody the idea of local service, both for our customers and for the wider community.
They have maintained this ethos under pressure and in the context of a rapidly growing business that makes more demands on individuals, and confers more responsibility on them, than ever before.
On behalf of you all I would like to thank them for their outstanding efforts on all fronts in 2015.
