10 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Chairmans The Ibstock plc Statement Group is a family of building products brands, and a leading manufacturer of a diversified range of clay and concrete products.
This is our first Annual Report as a public company and I am delighted to welcome you as a shareholder.
2015 was an eventful year for the Group.
In February, Ibstock Group businesses comprising Forticrete, Supreme, Ibstock Brick and Glen-Gery were acquired by BainCapital and left the CRH plc group.
Then, in October 2015, the Group completed a successful listing on the London Stock Exchange, marking its returnto the public markets.
I joined the Ibstock Board in September 2015 at whatwas, and continues to be, an excitingtime for the Ibstock Group.
The Group is a family of brands of building products with a diversified range of clay and concrete products.
We are a leading manufacturer of clay bricks and concrete products with operations in both the UK and the US.
The market and our strategy The macroeconomic environment, andspecifically demand for new homes, has a significant influence on the Groups performance.
Housing market fundamentals in both of our key geographies today are positive, and I believe the Group is well positioned to benefit from the continuing demand for new housing.
The Groups strategy of growth through investment and product innovation, together with expansion of its existing product portfolios, has been at the heart of its success over many years.
This approach continues today with a significant new brick plant under construction in Leicestershire and a new roof tile manufacturing plant being built at Leighton Buzzard.
Our strategy is discussed in more detail onpages 22 and 23.
indd 10 12 04 2016 13:12 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 11 Our results great experience as Non-Executive Directors The Groups results for the period were in to a range of companies, which will continue Our history line with expectations set at the time of the to bring insight and support to the Group as IPO in October 2015.
As discussed in more we grow as a public company.
Ibstock plc is headquartered in the village detail in the CFOs report, the statutory of Ibstock in the East Midlands of England, results for the Group cover the period from I am grateful to Jonathan, Michel and where its predecessor entity, Ibstock November 2014 to the end of 2015 and Matthias for their invaluable help and Collieries Ltd, was founded nearly 200 include only 10 months trading results from support in the process that led to our listing years ago.
Each of the Groups companies the operating businesses.
We are now tackling the are long-established businesses: in to give shareholders a more representative governance requirements of moving from addition to Ibstock Brick, Glen-Gery has understanding of the Groups underlying private equity ownership to being a Group been operating since 1890, Forticrete since performance we are also presenting our within the public environment.
This is the late 1920s and Supreme since 1979. adjusted results for the 2015 and 2014 discussed in more detail in our Corporate calendar years, so that a clearer picture Governance Statement on pages 44 to 50.
Ibstock was first listed on the London ofour business can be seen on a full Stock Exchange in 1963.
It acquired 12-month basis with comparatives.
In February this year, we appointed Glen-Gery in the US in 1979 and the TraceyGraham and Lynn Minella to the UKbrick operations were expanded by Reported statutory revenue was Board.
Both have joined the Boards acquiring Tarmac Bricks in 1995, Redland 358,331,000 and the statutory profit after Remuneration Committee, Audit Bricks in 1996 and Hepworth Brick in taxation for the period was 101,574,000, Committee and Nomination Committee, 1999.
Ibstock also acquired certain with EPS of 35.2p.
Our adjusted results and Lynn has become Chair of the concrete operations in the 1990s.
forthe 12-month period saw revenue of Remuneration Committee.
I am delighted towelcome Tracey and Lynn to the Board.
413,828,000 and adjusted EBITDA of In 1999, CRH plc acquired Ibstock.
Under Together they bring a wealth of experience 107,014,000.
CRHs ownership, the management of that will be of great benefit to Ibstock as Ibstock diversified the clay operations of wecontinue to develop our business.
We have proposed a final dividend of 4.4p CRH in Great Britain with the acquisition of per share, which is in line with our dividend Kevington Building Products Ltd in 2001 and The performance of the business, and policy of distributing 40 to 50% of our Manchester Brick in 2005.
The management oursuccess, is down to the hard work adjusted profit after tax over a business cycle.
of Ibstock also expanded CRHs concrete ofallof our employees across the Group.
products operations in Great Britain with the Iwish to thank all of our colleagues for Board and corporate governance acquisition of Supreme Concrete Ltd and theirexcellent work over this period.
Our business is run by an extremely Anderton Concrete Products Ltd in 2006 experienced management team Wayne and 2007, respectively.
Outlook Sheppard, Chief Executive Officer and As is usual at this early point in the new Kevin Sims, Chief Financial Officer, have a In February 2015, Bain Capital acquired financial year, we have limited forward combined experience of nearly 50 years Ibstock and its subsidiaries from CRH.
visibility ahead of the important Spring with the Group and more within the trading period but at this point, our full Building Products market.
Becoming a Ibstock re-joined the public markets when yearexpectations are unchanged.
listed business has necessitated some it listed on the London Stock Exchange in changes in the way we work, the formation October 2015.
In the UK, brick sales into the UK new of the plc Board with strong independent buildresidential market, and most all Directors being central to these changes.
othersectors including non-residential andinfrastructure, are growing to As Chairman, one of my prime expectation.
Sales via distributors yards, responsibilities is setting and maintaining which mainly flow into the RMI market, theappropriate Corporate Governance arebeing impacted by some destocking.
framework and ensuring the business puts However, weanticipate that this situation aqualified group of Non-Executive Directors will improve as we progress into the together to support this.
The overall effect is that the UK have had three such Directors bring their claybusiness has made a slower start experience to the Board to date.
Both our UK concrete and USbrick businesses Jonathan Nicholls, our Senior Independent havemade a good start to 2016.
Director, brings over 17 years of experience at senior management or director level of Market fundamentals remain positive in businesses, including those in brick both the UK and US, with demand for manufacturing, roofing and construction, newhousing remaining robust.
In the UK, and property development.
He is a the Construction Products Association chartered accountant and now serves as isforecasting further growth in both the our Audit Committee Chairman.
Jonathans residential and RMI markets in 2016 experience within the sector and financial andweare planning for another year background will be of great value to us.
Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Jamie Pike Chammard both joined the Group in Non-Executive Chairman February 2015 after Bain Capital acquired 10 March 2016 the Ibstock group of businesses.
Michel serves as managing director of Bain Capital Europe LLC, a role he has held for over 12 years, and Matthias currently serves as a Principal of Bain Capital Europe LLC, a role he has held for over four years.
Both bring IBSTOCK 03 Chairmans Statement DRF2.
