Chairmans statement I am very pleased to write my first statement since being appointed Chairman of Imagination in March 2015.
The business has significant potential and I look forward to working with the Board and the management team to realize this potential over the coming years.
The last year has seen further significant progress in all of the main silicon IP families: PowerVR multimedia, MIPS processors and Ensigma communications.
This has resulted in growth in both licensing and royalty revenues during the year.
The PowerVR multimedia family saw the launch of Series7 graphics which takes our class-leading mobile graphics to further levels of performance and efficiency.
Bert Nordberg The momentum in the MIPS business has continued to develop and we were Chairman pleased to report an increase in royalty units in the year.
We are confident that the licensing and design wins achieved over the last two years will drive further royalty unit growth in the years to come.
The customer base for Ensigma continues to grow, reflecting the increasing relevance of this technology to the market.
A number of new customers have now reached production and we expect this to signal the beginning of a ramp in royalty unit shipments.
The role of Pure in supporting the Groups strategy continues to evolve with a focus on fewer geographic markets and a tighter product range, and we will continue to refine this.
The past few years have seen significant investment in the Groups three key silicon IP families, and now that this heavy investment phase is largely complete, we have entered a new phase where we expect to see expansion of the operating margins earned by the business.
We believe a long term target of 30-40% is an achievable target for our operating margin.
None of this would be possible without the creativity, energy and commitment of our 1,700 employees around the globe and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their continued support.
Thank you for your keen interest in and support for the Group.
