4 4 IMI plc Chairmans Statement Significant opportunities This is an exciting time to be part of IMI.
As we continue to deliver our strategic plan I believe that momentum will continue to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and continues to be done will drive medium-term growth and long-term value for our shareholders.
While the Groups organic growth strategy provides good prospects for profitable expansion, our strong cash generation and balance sheet give us the full range of options to create growth through business development and acquisitions.
First impressions I was delighted to be appointed your Chairman in May last year.
IMI is a terrific company with many strengths and I am particularly pleased to be taking on this role at such an exciting time.
Following the appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive in 2014, the Groups strategic direction was reset and refocused on delivering sustainable accelerated top and bottom line growth and long-term shareholder value.
Since becoming Chairman last year, I have visited a number of our businesses including our world-class Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering operations in the Czech Republic and have been able to spend time with many of our employees.
Three things in particular have stood out.
First, our people: they have world-class engineering skills and are committed and Lord Smith of Kelvin passionate about the products and technologies they are creating and the service Chairman they provide to customers.
I have been particularly impressed with the high levels of employee engagement which are very evident throughout every area of the operation, whether it be continuous improvement driven from the shop floor or the Obeya rooms which are used to improve our project management within Critical Engineering.
The culture and ambition for change was evident throughout.
Secondly, the impact of our growth plan: our new strategic direction is well embedded in all our businesses and, while we are still in the early phases of our five year plan, thanks to the hard work of all employees around the Group, we are making progress and benefits are already starting to come through.
It is also evident that, despite the challenging market environment, which Mark Selway explains in his review on page 8, the implementation of cost cutting initiatives and the acceleration of a number of operational improvements, our growth plan remains on track.
And thirdly, the opportunity: a range of significant growth opportunities, both organic and acquisitive, exist for all our businesses.
I am confident that IMIs inherent strengths and the significant amount of work that has been done this year to ready our businesses for accelerated growth will enable us to fully exploit these opportunities.
Board performance corporate governance As a newly appointed Chairman of any complex international Group there are a great many activities with which I have needed to become familiar including a new Board, a new Executive team, new products, new markets and practices and procedures, which in many ways make up the DNA of the Group.
It is pleasing to report that my early reviews of the key components of IMI have been favourable.
There is a positive dynamic in the Boardroom where we have a diversity of skills which provide a good balance of support and challenge to our Executive team.
Introduction Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Executive clearly has a lot on its plate, not helped by Daniel Shook joined the Board as Finance Director designate the headwinds in many of its markets.
With the addition of on 1 January 2015 and became Finance Director on 1 March Massimo Grassi who joined us in June to head up the Precision 2015, succeeding Douglas Hurt, who retired from the Board Engineering division, Mark now has his full complement of at the AGM.
After serving as a non-executive director for nine Executives who are all committed to delivering our strategic years, Anita Frew also retired from the Board at the AGM and plan.
I have completed a review of our succession planning Bob Stack succeeded her as senior independent director and Executive development plans and am comfortable that immediately following the AGM.
Ross McInnes, who joined with proper execution we have a robustness from which to the Board as a non-executive director on 1 October 2014, build our future.
took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2015 after Phil Bentley stepped down from the Board at the In terms of products and markets, I have spent time with the end of 2014.
Board and management reviewing our five year strategic plan and I am impressed with what I have seen.
The plan is ambitious More recently on 1 September 2015 we welcomed Isobel but I am a believer in ambitious goals and the Executive has Sharp to the Board as a non-executive director and a member been diligent in its review of its markets, competitors and the of the Audit Committee.
Isobel has extensive accounting, audit opportunities which are available to us in the future.
and corporate governance experience and having advised a number of FTSE boards during her career she has wide I have also had the opportunity to undertake reviews of our risk ranging business experience.
management and internal control and governance framework including meeting with our independent auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY.
These reviews give me a great deal of confidence that Summary across the Group, the IMI Way, which sets out our values and This is an exciting time to be part of IMI.
As we continue to how we do business, is well embedded.
The new procedures deliver our strategic plan I believe that momentum will continue and structures, which are being introduced progressively, and to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and the addition of Francis Knowles, who joined IMI this year as continues to be done will drive accelerated growth and longDirector of Risk and Compliance, will further strengthen the term value for our shareholders.
governance framework of the Group.
Board changes I succeeded Roberto Quarta as Chairman at the close of the Annual General Meeting in May last year AGM.
Roberto had been your Chairman since 2011 and during that time he oversaw much change, as a result of which, IMI is well positioned for long-term growth.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his significant contribution and wish him well in the future.
Board details Corporate Governance Turn to page 46 Turn to page 44 6 IMI plc Strategic review Our strategic plan is now being executed across the Group and I am pleased to report Chief Executives Review real progress and Mark Selway describes early progress momentum starting and continuing ambitions to build 08-11 12-24 26-29 Our business Corporate model responsibility Our business model is built around our We set out our approach to doing core strategic priorities of capitalising business responsibly and the on growth opportunities, operational importance of the IMI Way.
excellence, investment in product development and targeted acquisitions.
Engineering GREAT the Key performance Principal risks 30-31 32-35 indicators and uncertainties IMI Way Our business performance is measured We have in place a well-established risk through Group-wide targets and management structure and framework improvement measures.
which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate the business risks we face.
Above Every person at IMI in every function is actively involved in improvement activities Right The implementation of lean uses industry recognised Kanban and Pull systems Group Overview Group Overview Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
