CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The deal, which was financed from debt and our own cash resources, has significantly enhanced our operations in the USA providing national distribution for our brands and improving our cigarette market share from around 3 per cent to over 9 per cent.
The expanded business, ITG Brands, will significantly increase the diversity and sustainability of our cash flow and returns.
The USA will become the largest contributor to Group revenues and as a result, we now disclose our USA performance as a separate reportable segment.
Capital Discipline Our continued focus on embedding stronger capital discipline in the business was reflected in further improvements in cash conversion and debt reduction.
Cash conversion increased to 97 per cent, up from 91 per cent last year.
Adjusted net debt increased to 11.6 billion, the result of adding Mark Williamson Chairman 4.6 billion for the USA acquisition.
We reduced adjusted net debt in the existing business by 1.1 billion, building on the excellent progress we made in 2014 and taking the total reduction over the last two years to 2.1 billion.
We delivered another good performance in A Responsible Business 2015, creating further sustainable value for We run our business responsibly and take pride in the positive our shareholders.
This was achieved through contributions we make in countries across our international footprint.
We respect the natural resources we use, provide the consistent execution of our strategy, which employment for around 36,400 people and return over 16 billion is focused on maximising sales, cost and a year to governments in taxes and duties.
Our corporate responsibility priorities are clearly set out in our responsibility framework and an update on the progress were Our performance highlights included gains from our Growth and making in key areas can be found on pages 21 to 24 of this Specialist Brands, strong results in a broad spread of markets and report and on our website: www.
com the completion of an acquisition that has transformed our presence in the USA, the worlds most profitable tobacco market outside Governance and the Board of China.
Strong governance is integral to our long-term sustainability and the Board is committed to ensuring that Imperial Tobacco We also made excellent progress with our strategic transition is governed and managed in an open, honest and transparent initiatives, further optimising our portfolio and market footprint, manner.
implementing better ways of working and efficiently managing our cost base.
Our Governance Report provides an overview of our governance It is a credit to our people around the world that Imperial Tobacco framework and the work of the Board and its Committees.
continues to deliver such good results, often against a backdrop Following the completion of the USA acquisition we made a of difficult market conditions.
My thanks to everyone for their number of senior management changes to ensure that we have contribution.
the right structure in place to lead the enlarged Group.
Growing Returns for Shareholders These changes included appointing Matthew Phillips, previously Our success continues to generate sustainable returns for our Corporate Affairs Director and a member of the Board for the shareholders.
past three years, as Chief Development Officer.
In this new role, Matthew is responsible for corporate development and Fontem On a constant currency basis tobacco net revenue was up by Ventures, including blu, and also retains his corporate and legal 4 per cent, adjusted operating profit was up by 7 per cent and affairs responsibilities.
we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8 per cent.
The Board is pleased to be recommending a total dividend for Building on our Success the year of 141.0 pence per share, another strong increase of We made good progress in 2015 and will continue to focus on 10 per cent.
strengthening the business and improving the quality of our growth.
We have the strategy, the capabilities and the people to build Investing in the USA on these results and deliver another year of value creation for In July 2014 we announced our intention to acquire a number our shareholders.
of assets in the USA, one of our key Growth Markets.
These assets were being sold as a result of the acquisition of Lorillard by Reynolds American and consisted of a portfolio of US cigarette brands, blu, a leading e-cigarette brand and Lorillards infrastructure, including its cigarette factory and national sales force.
We successfully completed the transaction on 12 June 2015 for a consideration of $7.1 billion 4.6 billion or $5.6 billion 3.6 billion Mark Williamson after adjusting for the present value of expected tax benefits of Chairman approximately $1.5 billion.
6 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015
