CHAIRMANS STATEMENT LONG-TERM V ALUE CREATION I am pleased that the Group has again demonstrated its solid fundamentals with another year of robust profit growth.
Our new strategic objectives put us on a clear path for future success and will enable us to continue driving performance, with longterm value creation for our shareholders 18 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inchcape is part of an exciting and evolving industry, within Due to further weakness in the Russian economy, we have which we have a strong portfolio of markets and OEM recorded a 49.5m non-cash exceptional impairment of partners.
We have operated in many of our markets for the value of the goodwill in Russia.
significant periods of time and we have a proven track record Adjusted earnings per share EPS rose by 3.8% to 52.1p.
of being able to adapt ahead of our competition and build on the strength of our positions.
The automotive industry is Cash generated from operations during the year was undergoing changes on multiple fronts, all of which we are 328.4m, which represents a 101% conversion of prevery mindful, as we seek to protect and strengthen our exceptional operating profit.
However, despite all the change occurring, there For the third year in succession, we announced a 100m is one important constant the importance for automotive share buy back programme at the time of our Interim manufacturers to have a trusted partner providing a route Results, with 41m completed by 31 December 2015 and the to market for both Distribution and Retail.
Here, our expertise remainder scheduled to be completed during the first half and global reach differentiates us and our relationships will of 2016.
The Groups cash generation continues to be strong, be solidied even further as part of the strategy outlined by benefiting from our well-established disciplines over working Stefan Bomhard in his CEOs statement.
The Group generated 177.6m of free cash ow in The Group is fortunate to have an outstanding management the year and had 166.4m of net cash at the year end.
team, led by Stefan who has seamlessly integrated into Inchcape.
Inchcapes success is only possible due to the Board quality of its people, and I would like to thank all of our I would like to thank Simon Borrows and Vicky Bindra, first-class colleagues for their dedication and hard work who both stepped down as Non-Executive Directors in during the year.
2015, for their great support and contributions to the Board.
We were pleased to announce the appointment After 16 years with Inchcape, 2015 marked the last full year of Nigel Stein who joined the Board on 8 October 2015. of John McConnell being with the Group.
On behalf of the Nigel brings significant global automotive expertise Board, I would like to thank John for the contribution he has and is an excellent addition to the Board: he is a made to Inchcapes success.
His expertise and insight as member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
both Group Finance Director and a member of the Board have been invaluable and he leaves behind a strong team.
Dividend It has been a pleasure to work alongside John.
I am sure I speak on behalf of everyone at Inchcape in thanking him The Board is pleased to recommend payment of a final for his years of dedicated service and wishing him well for dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.1p, the future.
This gives a total dividend for 2015 of 20.9p, a 4.0% increase on 2014 20.1p.
Subject to approval I am delighted with the appointment of Richard Howes as the at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on Groups new Chief Financial officer.
Richard will take up his 26 May 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 24 June 2016 appointment and join the Inchcape Board on 11 April 2016. to shareholders of the Company on the register of members Richard is joining from the position of Chief Financial officer at at the close of business on 27 May 2016.
Coats Group plc, the leading industrial thread and consumer textile crafts business, with operations in over 70 countries Outlook across six continents.
The Group has strong fundamentals and is well positioned against a backdrop of some question marks on the global Richard has gained a wealth of experience across the growth outlook.
These include the position in the cycle financial and commercial sectors, working for multi-site in some large developed markets, which have returned businesses with substantial global footprints.
His strong track to previous peaks, the reduction in growth rates in many record of leading finance functions across different sectors emerging markets and a number of scal and political issues.
at a number of international public companies will make Richard a very valuable addition to the Group.
I am confident that we have the right team and the right strategy to deliver good long-term performance Performance for our stakeholders.
While our performance will, as ever, be Group sales increased by 2.0% to 6.8bn for the full year to inuenced by external factors, the importance of positioning 31 December 2015.
Our 2015 constant currency like for like the Group correctly to seize growth and control our own revenue growth of 9.0% reected a stronger performance destiny is even greater than usual.
in the second half of the year.
2015 saw a continuation of the Groups trading momentum, supported by broad based growth across our markets and revenue streams.
Group profit before tax and exceptional items of 312.1m was up 2.9% on 2014, and excluding the property profit in KEN HANNA Singapore of 17.3m in 2014, the underlying increase was 9.2%.
