OVERVIEW Chairmans introduction remained largely unchanged.
Output desire to find a way of selling down of our current and near-term pipeline their entire and remaining holding of of new projects will continue to be nearly 70%.
We have engaged remunerated under the RO scheme.
constructively with Terra Firma and Our longer term pipeline of onshore continue to seek solutions that are in wind projects are well positioned for the interests of all shareholders.
look forward to this issue being resolved in the near future.
The recent general election has created many headlines over the past Against this background, I believe that few months but it is the substance the delivery record of the Infinis team now that needs to be dealt with by is impressive.
Our key measure of the new Conservative government.
profit, EBITDA before operational 1 Following the cross party exceptional items, at 142.8 million, This is the second Infinis commitment to combat climate demonstrates the resilience of our annual report and accounts change in February, the Tory business model.
We have made as a listed company and like manifesto committed to push for a good progress on our growth plans many other aspects of life, strong global climate deal that keeps with the AChruach wind farm the second year has proved a 2C goal within reach.
This points to construction now well underway the need for a long-term plan to and the Galawhistle project expected at least as challenging as the reduce the carbon emissions from to achieve financial close shortly.
Nonetheless, the team electricity generation.
The UK also has We now have around 109 MW of at Infinis has continued its legal obligations on levels of new wind capacity in construction focus on delivering on its IPO renewable energy in 2020.
These and pre-construction and we are commitments.
This focus has create the overall framework for exploring and developing a number policy in the UK.
of different options for the remaining served shareholders well.
commitment to build 130 to 150 MW There has been more debate about made at the time of the IPO.
Read more about the role of onshore wind our Chairman developments but, based on the We have also delivered on the P40 evidence, we remain convinced of the dividend commitment we made back role that onshore wind has to play in in November 2013.
We are pleased to the UK energy mix as the lowest cost, declare a final dividend of 12.2 pence EBITDA before clean renewable energy technology.
per share which brings the total operating We believe our current wind m dividend for the full financial year to exceptional 1 construction projects will be items 142.8 18.3 pence per share.
unaffected by any future policy The Board and management team changes and the Conservatives have New wind have met regularly during the year capacity in said that any change to the support On target construction and we have taken the opportunity to mechanisms for onshore wind would hold our meetings at various Infinis be implemented over the lifetime of Proposed locations.
The highlight was meeting this Parliament, we hope that the new full year at the Centre of Excellence in government will focus on ensuring On target dividend Lancaster where our expert engineers there is greater regulatory certainty, overhaul our LFG engine fleet.
The rationality of debate and delivery of Board and management team, as I affordable renewable electricity in the Let me begin by outlining some of wrote last year, is a good mix of years up to 2020 and beyond.
the challenging aspects of the experience of industry and business environment.
The significant fall in oil prices seen backgrounds.
This, I believe, is serving during 2014 has resulted in lower gas shareholders interests well.
Sadly, The UK has been implementing and wholesale power prices.
Much of Sam Calder, our Company Secretary reforms to the electricity market the impact on wholesale power prices passed away in December last year during 2014 to deliver on its three in the last financial year and the new and her valuable input to Infinis and stated objectives of decarbonising financial year has been mitigated due the Board will be greatly missed.
energy generation, ensuring security to the Companys contracting of supply and providing affordable strategy.
However, should oil prices I believe that this track record of power.
Whilst the overall framework remain at current levels for a number delivering in a challenging environment for the promotion of renewable of years then clearly this will have an demonstrates both the resilience of energy at the European level is adverse impact on the performance the Infinis business model and the unchanged, the UK is transitioning to of the Company in future years.
commitment of the whole Infinis team, a new regulatory support regime for two features that will serve new generation.
This created much I should also comment on the position shareholders well in the years ahead.
debate about the long-term future with our major shareholder, Terra Ian Marchant prospects for new investment in Firma.
In early December 2014, Terra Chairman renewable energy, but in reality, the Firma, the general partner of our Infinis Energy plc short-term outlook for Infinis has largest shareholder, announced their 1 EBITDA before operating exceptional items: includes the EBITDA contribution from Hydro operations FY15: 2,521,000: FY14: 2,256,000.
These operations were discontinued in February 2015 4
