STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION DEAR SHAREHOLDER The results for 2015 reflect the benefits of our strategy over the past two years, during which Informa moved from a period of Measured Change and launched the 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
6 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS nforma has delivered another effective integration of Virgo and Hanley I would like to take the opportunity year of improved operating Wood Exhibitions.
Acquisitions are likely tothank John Davis for his long and performance and further strategic toremain an important component of distinguished contribution to Informa.
On behalfof the Board growthfor Informa in the future.
All Hefulfilled important roles on the Audit and ourShareholders, I would capitalcommitments will continue to and Remuneration Committees and put liketo thank ourManagement Team and bemade in a disciplined manner and his extensive sector expertise to good all our colleagues for the hard work in willremain subject to rigorous strategic usein the service of Shareholders.
delivering the financial results set out and financial hurdles.
Iamalso grateful that he agreed to inthis Annual Report.
On behalf of all Shareholders, your stayontheBoard for an extra period The statutory results for the 12 months Board continues to monitor Informas whilst weprepared for the new to 31 December 2015 reflect the benefits performance in important areas such Non-Executive joiners.
of our strategy over the past two years, as compliance, risk management and Full details of your Boards during which Informa moved from a period remuneration.
In 2015 we took steps composition and governance procedures of Measured Change and launched the toimprove further the governance and can be found from page 65 onwards in 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
controls in place across the Group, this report.
Your Board is confident that Informa including further investment in our Risk Our confidence in the progress and will meet its ambitious goals, generating and Compliance Team and systems.
performance of the Group led the Board sustainable growth across all four The quality of Informas Shareholder to increase the total Dividend Per Share Operating Divisions, which should in turn returns reflects, ultimately, the quality of for 2015 by 4.1% to 20.1p.
We have also drive Shareholder returns.
The Board itspeople at every level.
This includes increased our minimum commitment for willcontinue to oversee managements theBoard.
As part of this commitment the remainder of the Growth Acceleration performance closely, ensuring that the toquality, we appointed two first-rate NonPlan.
Through 2016 and 2017 we will Group executes its strategy with financial Executive Directors during the year.
These increase our annual dividend by a discipline and with integrity.
were to broaden the Boards international minimum of 4%, double the previous Already, Informa is a leaner, more experience, particularly of US markets, 2%commitment.
and to prepare for John Davis stepping The Board is confident that continued We have expanded our presence in down from the Board in May 2016 after progress in the Growth Acceleration Plan keymarkets, notably the US.
will include further steps to enhance our strengthened our divisional management Stephen Davidson joined in September returns for Shareholders.
This will make and enhanced our returns to Shareholders and brings extensive corporate and the Group an outstanding enterprise in through improvements in revenue, financial market experience in both which to work, with which to do business earnings and dividend growth.
Executive and Non-Executive roles, and in which to invest.
There is still a long way to go to making him well suited to his position My thanks again go to the reach the ambitious targets we have set asChairman of the Remuneration Management Team and all Informa ourselves.
But the Group is on track and Committee.
In the same month, we also colleagues, as well as to customers and the Board remains supportive and united appointed David Flaschen to the Board.
business partners for their support in 2015. behind the current strategy.
David is an American citizen with a wealth I look forward to 2016 as a year of further Your Board of Directors has endorsed of Senior Management experience in investment in the Groups growth and managements plans to internationalise theUS Media, Information Services and continued value-creation for Shareholders.
the Group further, as we look to extend all Technology sectors.
The Groups growing our businesses into new markets that offer presence in these markets and stated DEREK MAPP growth opportunities.
It is encouraging to ambition to build its position in North CHAIRMAN see that the US expansion programme America make him an invaluable source inthe Global Exhibitions Division is ofadvice and insight to the Board and delivering ahead of plan, following the itsManagement Team.
The Strategic Report, which makes up pages 2 to 60 in Informas 2015 Annual Report, has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
10 February 2016 Already, Informa is a leaner, more focused and growth-oriented company.
We have expanded our presence in key markets, notably the US.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
