04 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 CHAIRMANS REVIEW A YEAR OF STRATEGIC PROGRESS 2015 OVERVIEW This, our tenth year as a listed company, has been a year of transition, preparation and investment in what we firmly believe will be the next phase of growth in the global mobile satellite sector.
While we were disappointed in the delays in the final deployment of our new Global Xpress constellation and in the continued spending constraints that our government, oil and gas and maritime customers have experienced in 2015, we were, at the same time, quite pleased with the resilience of our diversified business and the progress that weve made in moving our customers to higher bandwidth data services overall.
In our Aviation business, segments of our Government business and with our first customers using our new Global Xpress service we did well.
Underpinning all of this is a progression to higher bandwidth services which we believe is inevitable.
It is clear that customers in areas not fully served by terrestrial wireless networks still demand the same need for broadband connectivity.
Our focus remains on serving customers in those remote environments with uniform global mobile or portable connectivity ANDREW SUKAWATY CHAIRMAN that is highly reliable.
The mission-critical applications our services are used for have a broad range of connectivity requirements, but more and more it is for higher bandwidth, lower and more predictable prices, smaller and lower cost terminals and high levels CHAIRMANS REVIEW IN SUMMARY of reliability.
Reflecting on our tenth year as a listed company, FINAL DIVIDEND AND FULL-YEAR DIVIDEND INCREASES we are proud to note for our investors that since our IPO in 2005 to the end of December 2015, our share price has increased 364%, our dividend has NEW BOARD DIRECTORS BRING NEW PERSPECTIVES had a healthy increase each and every year and our total shareholder return TSR during this period was 584%.
This compares with a TSR for the OUR DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS IS RESILIENT FTSE 250 of 217% and 81% for the FTSE 100: and is also strongly favourable to our industry indices.
CONTINUED FOCUS ON SAFETY SERVICES While we are pleased with the returns weve been able to deliver to our shareholders, we have done this alongside both maintaining the quality of PLANNING FOR THE NEXT PHASE OF GROWTH services that we deliver and investing in the future.
In the next section Rupert Pearce, our CEO, will highlight our performance more broadly in 2015, CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN NEW SATELLITES AND NETWORKS and our plans for 2016 and beyond.
He and the senior management team continue to innovate around their identified business unit needs.
The CUSTOMER MARKET SEGMENT FOCUS DRIVES INNOVATION most fundamental illustrations of that are our new satellite constellations, both Global Xpress and the newly announced Inmarsat-6 programme.
However, a breakthrough in offering enhanced European aviation connectivity, at significantly increased data speeds, was also announced in the form of our new European Aviation Network partnership with the leading European telecoms firm, Deutsche Telekom.
This is an example of an extension of our satellite services through a hybrid system to more effectively serve our aviation customers.
We expect to invest more in this rapidly growing aviation segment in the years ahead.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05 BOARD OVERVIEW In October we were honoured to Our Board confirms the Annual host a visit by the Chinese Report is fair, balanced and understandable President, Xi Jinping, to our Inmarsat headquarters in We have a majority of independent Directors with diverse and London.
complementary experience and skills We completed an external Board Of course safety services in both maritime and PERFORMANCE Evaluation review in 2015 with aviation remain core to what we do.
In both of these In 2015, our Aviation business unit performed positive findings services we are investing in the next generation and very strongly and within our government market enhancements to ensure that seafarers and sector, the US Government business also showed aircraft, flying over oceans and remote areas improvement in the underlying trends.
Our We created a new Board globally, have the benefit of the latest technologies Maritime business was flat overall and underlying Committee the Telecoms to keep them safe.
revenues in our Enterprise business increased.
Regulatory Committee These four market sectors contributed to overall BOARD ACTIVITIES Mobile Satellite Services and other revenues of Non-Executive Director During the course of 2015, we also evolved $1,185.5m, with the balance of our revenues made succession planning remains our Board membership by bringing on new up of payments received from a collaboration a focus independent members and by the retirement agreement with a US operator, LightSquared, of one of our long-time valued members of the now called Ligado Networks.
This process will result in the continued management and despite a year of significant READ MORE independence of our Board and allow for a investment in the business in terms of both CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continuity of work along the way.
This year we infrastructure and employee training, our level REPORT P58 were pleased to welcome two new members to of EBITDA was favourable against last year.
our Board: Robert Ruijter, who is our new Audit Committee Chairman and Dr Hamadoun Tour, This performance has allowed us to continue former Secretary General of the ITU see their increasing our dividend payments with a 5% biographies on pages 52-54.
In addition, we have increase on the final dividend on last year to formed a new Committee of the Board, the 31.78 cents which gave a total dividend for 2015 Telecoms Regulatory Committee, which will allow us of 51.39 cents.
This is a 5% increase for the full year to focus on vital telecoms regulation globally with dividend compared to 2014.
We have increased our Directors who have a wealth of experience in our dividends every year since our IPO in 2005. this highly specialised and relevant geopolitical arena for us.
Rupert and the senior management team have managed the Company well through a year of John Rennocks, our Deputy Chairman, decided transition and significant investment.
The Company to retire from the Board in November 2015.
We is well positioned in markets on land, at sea and in thank John for his invaluable contributions over the air business sectors the market analysts the years to the success of Inmarsat as a business.
expect to grow over the long term.
It is not without Dr Abe Peled has stepped into the role of Senior operational and competitive challenges, but we Independent Director.
In addition, at the start of think our market-focused approach, along with the 2015 I stepped into the role of Non-Executive assets we continue to put in place, will allow us to Chairman.
The Corporate governance report on continue to grow profitably in the years ahead.
pages 58 to 71 summarises the changes that we have made to the Board over the course of the Thank you to our customers for continuing to rely year and notes our intentions for succession on us, we do not take this for granted.
Thank you to planning before the 2017 AGM.
A summary of the our entire global workforce for continuing to work external Board evaluation we recently completed tirelessly to deliver reliable services.
And of course, is also included in this Report.
thank you also to our shareholders for your continued support for Inmarsat.
In October we were honoured to host a visit by the Chinese President, Xi Jinping, to our Inmarsat ANDREW SUKAWATY headquarters in London.
This was in conjunction Chairman with his State visit to the UK.
After 35 years of 3 March 2016 working closely with our Chinese partners in the delivery of emergency services, maritime safety services and more commercial services to Chinese users, we were pleased to be recognised in this way.
