C C Chai irma ans ov verv view reecting 50 per cent female representation.
During 2015, we said goodbye to Kirk Kinsell as he departed IHG in February, and, in March, we were delighted to welcome Anne Busquet as a new Non-Executive Director.
Annes impressive experience, predominantly in the financial, branded and digital-commerce sectors, is a real asset to the Board.
We were also very sorry to lose Tracy Robbins from the Board, as she stepped down from her role as Executive Vice President, Human Resources, on 15 January 2016 for health reasons.
Tracy has made a tremendous contribution to the Board over the years, and we wish her all the best for the future.
Jennifer Laing and Ying Yeh will also retire from the Board following the AGM on 6 May 2016.
On behalf of IHG I would like to thank both Jennifer and Ying for their invaluable contributions to IHG over the years, having served on the Board for 10 and eight years respectively.
Jill McDonald, Our governance framework supports a Non-Executive Director, will succeed Jennifer as Chairman of the IHGs values, culture and commitment Corporate Responsibility Committee.
We wish Jennifer and Ying all the very best for the future.
Further details of our Board structure and composition can be found on pages 53 to 57, and details of our approach to succession planning are located in the Nomination Committee Report on page 65.
Dear Shareholder We pride ourselves on our commitment to maintaining the highest Diversity standards of corporate governance.
We rmly believe that good We are proud to be a diverse company and value the benets that corporate governance is about fostering the right behaviours, and that diversity brings.
We approach diversity in its widest sense because it underpins our long-term success.
Our governance framework, which we believe that, by ensuring that different genders, backgrounds, ages is led by the Board, supports IHGs values, culture and commitment to and nationalities are appropriately represented, both in the composition conducting business responsibly.
We have in place strong and effective of the Board and throughout the organisation as a whole, we ensure that practices and policies, and a robust system of governance, to maintain corporate decision-making is informed by the widest possible range of sound and effective controls and internal reporting.
This facilitates a knowledge, skills and experience.
While recent changes to the Board strong ow of information and enhanced communication at all levels have reduced the level of female representation, our commitment to across the Group.
Please refer to page 65 for more details.
The Board is responsible and accountable for the long-term success Training, development and Board performance review of the Group.
It leads the Groups strategic direction and long-term The Boards training needs are reviewed regularly as part of our objectives and monitors Group performance, risk and internal agenda-setting and the annual Board performance review process.
management controls through effective oversight and review.
In doing In 2015, the Directors received training on a variety of topics, including so, the Board considers both what we aim to deliver as a company and updates on technology, accounting and anti-bribery, in addition to how we deliver it, recognising the importance of instilling a culture of regular briengs on legal and corporate governance developments.
strong values, ethics and integrity.
Directors who are newly appointed to the Board undergo a full induction The Boards annual agenda is carefully planned, allowing time to programme that is tailored to their personal requirements.
Further consider and review strategic, operational, financial and  about inductions for new Directors, including details of related agenda items.
See pages 60, 61 and 67 for details of the items Anne Busquets induction programme, and our ongoing training discussed by the Board during the year, and the information and arrangements for all Directors can be found on page 59.
In 2015 support provided to the Board to ensure meetings are run effectively.
we conducted an internal assessment of the Boards performance, supported by an external facilitator.
More information on the Compliance and our dual listing Boards annual effectiveness evaluation, including the process, As a dual-listed company with a premium listing on the London Stock our performance against our 2014 action plan, and the Exchange and a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange, recommendations made for 2016, is on page 60. we are required to le both an Annual Report in the UK and an Annual Report on Form 20-F in the US.
Our statement of compliance with the Priorities for 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is located on pages 66 and This year, we will continue to drive the execution of our strategy, and 67.
I am pleased to report that, during 2015, we complied fully with all increase our speed and agility in anticipating and responding to the principles and provisions of the Code, with the exception of the provision challenges and opportunities facing us.
The Boards agenda over the relating to audit tendering see page 66, as we believe that it would not coming year will allow continued focus on shaping how we deploy our be in the best interests of the Group to undertake an audit tender at this strategy, including the evolution of our brand portfolio and our emphasis time see pages 62 to 63. on meaningful and sustainable growth.
To ensure continued consistency of information provided to both UK and US investors for 2015, we have again produced a combined Annual Report and Form 20-F this year.
As required by the SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the Groups UK corporate governance practices and those followed by US companies is located on pages 167 and 168.
Patrick Cescau Governance structure and Board composition Non-Executive Chairman As of 31 December 2015, the Board comprised eight Non-Executive 22 February 2016 Directors, myself as Chairman, and three Executive Directors, 52 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
