02 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OVERVIEW Chairmans statement UK, our Support Services businesses with well-balanced growth coming from our STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT continued to perform strongly: we largest markets in the Middle East, the Far In our 2010 Annual Report we set out continued to extend our reach into new East and the UK.
the ambition to double our earnings per markets, such as further education and share by 2015.
Although we did not quite SUSTAINABILITY justice where we successfully mobilised achieve that, during that five-year period the delivery of our new front-line service Offering sustainable solutions and services the business achieved a remarkable 71 per probation contracts, welcoming a further to our customers is increasingly important cent increase in revenue and grew headline 2,000 colleagues to the Group and grew and the value of a strong sustainable earnings per share by 68 per cent, despite our facilities management operations in strategy continues to grow.
Our many the backdrop of weak economic growth and both the private and public sectors.
and varied activities in this area have a government austerity.
direct bearing on our ability to win work Our UK Construction business has had a and to attract and retain employees, as We are proud of these results, which difficult year, with industry-wide pricing well as playing our part in developing the reflect the transformation in the pressures, and some specific supply-chain workforce of tomorrow and safeguarding business over that period in much more failures, significantly impacting three of our the natural environment.
They are part difficult markets than we or others had Energy from Waste projects.
These issues of our core business strategy which anticipated.
At a time when many in our were, however, partially offset in the year is reflected in the way that we are sectors have faced financial difficulties, by strong performance in our building and increasingly integrating how we report we continued to grow our dividend every fit-out businesses.
our activities in our Annual Report.
year at a compound rate of over six per cent.
Meanwhile, the investment in new Both International Support Services Achievements of particular note in the business areas, particularly in UK front-line and International Construction grew year include: our first ever decoupling services, has created a stronger and more well in recovering but volatile Middle of financial growth from resource robust business with new opportunities East markets, in which the demands consumption with CO emissions down by 2 to deliver further growth in shareholder of demographic change and plans for 4.6 per cent in a year of strong revenue value.
This performance is a testimony enhanced infrastructure outweighed the growth : our launch with Business in the to the strength of our business, strong impact of the weakness in the oil price.
Community and Asda of arc, a social values and performance culture as well Unless disrupted by world events we enterprise support programme in Yorkshire, as the determination of the management continue to believe these markets remain which aims to create social value, and, team.
Against this backdrop of substantial attractive over the medium term given specifically, 1,000 jobs, in the communities strategic progress and the changing shape the fundamental growth drivers: however, in which we operate: and the award of of our portfolio, we have commenced we are mindful of both the economic and an Ofsted rating of Good to Crawshaw a strategic review of our Equipment political risks of a sustained low oil price.
Academy school in Pudsey, Yorkshire, which Services business.
Our and our partners long experience had been in special measures in 2014, prior of operating in the region stands us in to our sponsorship.
2015 was another year of continued good stead to respond to potential progress and growth for Interserve, near-term challenges as well as the OUR PEOPLE with revenues up 10 per cent and headline medium-term opportunities.
total operating profit 12 per cent.
This Interserves people are our most important asset and the way that our values are reflected the strength of our business Our Equipment Services business portfolio, with strong performances in reflected through their hard work, skill and performed particularly well, building on diligence, continues to be a source of pride many areas that balanced other areas our sustained investment in recent years where performance was weaker.
In the for myself and the Board.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 03 I AM PROUD TO HAVE BEEN A PART OF THE COMPANYS CONSIDERABLE SUCCESS AND CONTINUED GROWTH OVER THE LAST DECADE.
LORD BLACKWELL CHAIRMAN The health and safety of our people is a announcement of my intention to step good, but the low oil price creates constant priority for Interserve.
This year down, part of Russells role has been uncertainties in our markets.
Conversely, we have continued to make excellent to lead the Boards search for a new we expect improved performance in UK progress, once again reducing our accident Chairman.
On behalf of the Board Im Construction, continued strong momentum incidence rate, which is a key indicator of delighted to welcome Glyn Barker who in Equipment Services and greater performance and is rightly viewed as an joined as a non-executive director and cash conversion across all parts of the important barometer for the general health Chairman-Designate on 1 January 2016. business.
Visibility for 2016 remains broadly of any business.
This year we have achieved Glyn brings considerable experience from consistent with prior years.
our long-term goal of halving our accident his time at  and Looking further ahead to 2017 and beyond, incidence rate, from 2010, four years as an adviser to numerous companies on we expect a return to good growth in ahead of schedule, which is a considerable a wide variety of corporate, strategic and UK Support Services based on our strong achievement.
Nevertheless there will financial issues and will be a great asset market positions and an encouraging always be more to do and health and safety to the Board.
pipeline of attractive opportunities remains a critical focus for the business.
On 29 February I will be retiring from with most of the impact of the National Listening to our people is important to us the Board after ten years as Chairman.
Living Wage by then already having been and our 2015 employee survey reflected I have enjoyed the experience enormously absorbed.
In the Middle East, while mindful how health and safety remains central to and am proud to have been a part of of the current risks, our combination of our corporate culture.
The survey also the Companys considerable success and strong customer and partner relationships showed employee engagement to have continued growth over that time.
With that have developed over more than grown significantly in the past two years, a new Chairman the Board will be well 30 years provide a strong platform for a substantial achievement in the context placed to take a fresh look at the future growth.
These factors underpin of considerable corporate change and strategic options that the growth in the our confidence in further sustainable over 30 per cent growth in the number business now provides.
I am confident shareholder value creation and support of colleagues.
that Interserves breadth and scale the Boards recommendation of a final combined with its extremely able senior dividend of 16.4p 2014: 15.5p, bringing We also made further investment in the management team will ensure continued the total dividend for the year to 24.3p training and development of our people success as it faces the challenges and 2014: 23.0p, an increase of 6 per cent.
during the year, notably in Dubai with the the opportunities ahead.
The final dividend will be paid on 20 May establishment of a new training school, 2016 to shareholders on the register at the and we have again grown the volume of PROSPECTS close of business on 1 April 2016. apprenticeships and work experience Our near-term development will continue opportunities.
Volunteering also continues to be played out against a mixed backdrop.
to thrive with over a 50 per cent rise As we have highlighted previously, the in the number of days given over to performance of our UK Support Services community projects around the world division will be impacted by the higher Lord Blackwell by Interserve employees.
employment costs associated with the Chairman new National Living Wage and we expect BOARD CHANGES 24 February 2016 volume growth to slow temporarily to At the 2015 Annual General Meeting reflect last years normal hiatus in new Russell King assumed the role of Senior contracts surrounding a General Election.
Following the In the Middle East, current trading remains 04 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY 06 OPERATIONS AT A GLANCE 08 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 10 WHERE WE OPERATE 12 PERFORMANCE 14 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 16 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 28 FINANCIAL REVIEW 32 OVERVIEW S S S ST T T TR R R RA A A AT T T TE E E EG G G GIIIIC C C C R R R RE E E EP P P PO O O OR R R RT T T T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 05 HIGH-TECH Interserve completed the construction of Factory 2050, a 43 million, next generation factory for the aerospace FACTORY industry at the University of Sheffields Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre, in late 2015.
2050 PROJECT The factory, which is due to be fully operational by the end of 2016, is the first of its kind in the UK a fully reconfigurable COMPLETED assembly and component research facility, capable of quickly switching production of different components and parts.
Factory 2050 combines technologies including advanced robotics, flexible automation, unmanned workspace and off-line programming in virtual environments linked to plugand-play robotics.
Other capabilities include 3D printing from flexible automated systems, man-machine interfaces along with new programming and training tools.
The facility is one of the worlds most advanced factories and is the first building on a new Advanced Manufacturing Campus at the Sheffield Business Park, where up to one million square feet of new research facilities will be built over the next decade.
