Strategic report Chairmans statement The appointment of Andr Lacroix in May 2015 has brought new thinking about the market drivers for Intertek and how This has been an important year for the our business should evolve to meet the changing needs of quality assurance market and for our stakeholders.
To access the significant structural growth opportunities opened up by this new approach to the Intertek as highlighted by the number assurance, testing, inspection and certification market, Andr of news reports around the world and the executive team have, with the support of the Board, developed a Total Quality Assurance Proposition and a new frequently focusing on questions about growth strategy.
Andr explains more about the proposition quality.
As a global business operating and strategy in his Chief Executive Officers statement.
In implementing this strategy, we will retain our capital discipline with more than 41,000 people in over and operate with a renewed focus on margin accretive revenue 100 countries in three main sectors of growth, strong returns and cash generation.
We plan that this the economy Products, Trade and will deliver positive outcomes for our customers, our people and our shareholders.
Resources Intertek has continued to 2015 PERFORMANCE help our customers meet the Our performance benefited from good growth in our Products challenges they face by providing and Trade businesses, while trading conditions remained challenging in the Resources businesses.
In 2015, the Group independent, innovative and bespoke delivered revenue of 2,166m, an increase of 3.5% over the quality assurance solutions.
Organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates was 1.6%.
Adjusted operating profit rose to 343m, up 5.9%, and adjusted operating margin was 15.9% compared to 15.5% in 2014.
The Industry Services business continued to face challenges in the energy infrastructure sector of oil and gas.
Following a review of our business a non-cash impairment charge of 577.3m has been recorded in the year.
The underlying performance of the business was solid with adjusted diluted earnings per share of 140.7p, up 6.5%.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy.
We will seek to increase the dividend each year in a sustainable way and maintain a minimum dividend cover of 2.5 times earnings.
N ever has there been so much On 13 October 2015, we paid an interim dividend of 17.0p per share 2014: 16.0p.
At the Annual General Meeting, the focus on quality assurance from Board will propose a final dividend of 35.3p per share, which consumers, regulators, media, will make a full year dividend of 52.3p per share 2014: 49.1p, an increase of 6.5%.
This final dividend will be paid on 3 June 2016 for those SIR DAVID REID shareholders on the register on 20 May 2016.
Chairman CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENT In 2015, the Group continued to generate strong cash flow, with adjusted cash flow from operations of 466m, an increase of 15% on the prior year.
Adjusted cash conversion was 136% compared to 125% in 2014.
The Group invested 112m in new laboratories and equipment in the year which represents 5.2% of total revenue 2014: 110m, 5.2%.
The capital investment programme ensures we continually position Intertek to capture future growth.
Net debt at the year end was 775m, an increase of 22% on the prior year, largely reflecting the net spend of 231m on acquisitions.
ACQUISITIONS In line with our priorities of strengthening our global and local businesses, Intertek announced the acquisitions of five new companies in 2015, with four completing during the year.
14 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Andr provides more detail on acquisitions in his statement.
While all Board appointments are made on merit, we are strong believers in the importance of diversity.
We have strived for The most significant was the acquisition of Professional gender diversity among our membership and female Board Service Industries, Inc. a leading US-based provider of members currently comprise 30% of the Board.
Our Diversity testing and assurance services to the commercial and civil Policy can be found on our website.
SUSTAINABILITY With our strong financial position we are well-placed to Sustainable business practices are integral to Intertek.
We assist continue to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities and to many of the worlds leading corporations and best-known make smaller, bolt-on acquisitions that bring complementary brands in improving the social, ethical and environmental services to our portfolio and have the potential to increase impact of their products, processes and supply chains ensuring shareholder value.
quality and safety and thereby protecting their brands.
THE BOARD AND MANAGEMENT In our own operations, we continue to improve our processes With highly engaged people, having the right person at the to monitor our impact on climate change and have controls in very top of the organisation to lead the business in a world that place to minimise the Groups effect on the environment is changing quickly is critical.
Appointed on 16 May 2015, our through, for example, utilising renewable sources of energy, new Chief Executive Officer, Andr Lacroix, and the reducing energy consumption and implementing green experienced leadership team have worked with the Board waste management practices.
during the year to develop a differentiated strategy for growth that meets the needs and demands of our stakeholders.
The health and safety of our people is paramount and we have policies in place to ensure staff welfare remains of utmost At the May 2015 Annual General Meeting, after serving as importance.
In 2015, we implemented an online reporting Chief Executive Officer for ten years, Wolfhart Hauser retired.
tool for information relating to health and safety incidents with Christopher Knight, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee these insights shared across the Group to help understand and Non-Executive Director, also retired after serving for nine and reduce accident rates.
INTEGRITY AND OUR PEOPLE We welcomed Gill Rider to the Board as a Non-Executive The integrity and ethical conduct of our people is at the core Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July of everything we do and critical to the success of Intertek.
Gill adds valuable experience to the Board from her continually review our performance against our robust ethical career in both Executive and Non-Executive roles.
These policies and procedures In other changes to the Committees, Mark Williams was help us ensure that good business ethics are embedded across appointed to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Group.
with effect from 15 May 2015, Alan Brown moved from the The Board recognises that delivering our new strategy for Remuneration Committee to the Audit & Risk Committee on growth depends on many factors but people are our greatest 1July 2015 and Dame Louise Makin joined the Nomination asset.
We are confident and know that our employees have the Committee on 1 December 2015. innovative talent and knowledge to build on our traditions to SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT realise the full potential of our business.
Our continuing success Our ongoing and continuing dialogue with our shareholders relies upon the commitment, energy, expertise and hard work has been a key focus during the year.
As a Board, we have been of our teams around the globe and on behalf of the Board, cognisant of the voting results at last years Annual General I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued Meeting.
We took note of the shareholder pushback for the dedication and diligence.
advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration report at the LOOKING AHEAD 2015 Annual General Meeting and responded accordingly.
As a We look to the future with confidence.
We have articulated result, there has been significant engagement with our a clear growth strategy to deliver quality assurance solutions shareholders and other stakeholders on remuneration matters in rapidly changing markets with strong structural growth and all feedback has been reviewed and taken into drivers.
Despite current market challenges in some parts of consideration.
In accordance with regulations and good our Resources business, we believe the Group can continue corporate governance and following further shareholder to deliver revenue growth, improved margins, strong cash engagement, our Directors Remuneration Policy will be generation and attractive returns.
Supported by the presented for approval by shareholders at the 2016 Annual investments we are making, I am convinced Intertek General Meeting.
Details are set out in the Directors will build on its successful heritage to continue to deliver Remuneration report on pages 63 to 77. long-term value for our shareholders.
GOVERNANCE As Chairman, I am committed to seeing Intertek operating with the highest standards of corporate governance.
An independent external evaluation was undertaken of the Board during the year.
I am pleased that the results were positive and confirmed that the Board and the way it operates are effective.
More information on this review is outlined on SIR DAVID REID pages 60 and 61 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Chairman INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 15
