Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Chairmans Statement The last year has seen another period of strong progress at ITV with record financial performance andfurther evolution in the shape of the business.
This represents the sixth successive That is not to say that the changing year of growth and the turnaround broadcast landscape is entirely benign.
days of 2010 are now long behind us.
We can all see that changing viewing ITV is a remarkable As a result ITV is a very different habits, especially amongst young people business today, from that which this will affect conventional linear television.
place to work and team inherited.
The arrival of new global video on employs remarkable demand broadcasters is affecting The success of ITV depends on driving viewing habits and provides new people.
It is thanks to ahead creatively, commercially and competition for top-end drama.
financially, while at the same time Andnewonline advertising models their hard work that combining these strands successfully in provide our commercial customers we have produced the context of very strong management withdifferent routes to market.
Creative potential sits at theseresults.
thecore of our business, and measured These challenges are also opportunities in terms of talented people and new for ITV.
Great content is in demand programme generation, ITV is stronger globally.
As new viewing opportunities than it has ever been.
Commercially emerge so the thirst for really good theyear has seen further progress programmes increases.
Under its inrebalancing the business towards international umbrella ITV has an content and multi-platform extraordinarily diverse but high talent broadcasting.
Financially we have a set of content businesses.
In the UK our business generating strong cash flows integrated producer broadcaster model and high return on capital.
is stronger than ever with increasing in-house output.
When we started on the original Our audience strength in the UK and transformation programme it was close working relationships with commonplace to hear television referred advertisers provides a uniquely powerful to as a no-growth business.
Far from replacing manysaw our model as in decline.
television, the online advertising market Instead we have grown strongly every has reinforced our unique ability to year and emphatically believe our provide advertisers with rapid access combination of multi-platform tovery large audiences with persuasive broadcasting and content provides andemotional branding messages.
The aplatform for continued growth.
strength of ITVs offering has enabled itto grow its share of broadcast advertising revenues over the last fiveyears.
12 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Pictured left to right: The Good Witch was aired in the US on the Hallmark channel in February 2015: behind the scenes on The Frankenstein Chronicles, an ITV Encore commission.
Dividend One of the hallmarks of our approach We are very selective about Board has been disciplined control of costs and appointments.
Each addition needs to Ordinary dividend spending.
As a result, over 90% of our add to our skill base and diversity, but operating profit is converted into cash also relate to the business.
Against this and we have been able to both invest context I am delighted to welcome 6.0p inacquisitions and grow progressively AnnaManz to our Board.
She will bring our dividend.
Our approach is to invest new insight from the consumer world Special dividend carefully in selected new growth and valuable experience.
opportunities while at thesame 10.0p timemaking returns to shareholders.
I believe that the well spring of our Withinthis context we continue to success is our people and the culture lookat potential acquisitions that could that binds them together.
ITV is a further enhance our ability to execute remarkable place to work and employs our strategy.
It is thanks to their hard work that we have produced Against this context we maintain a theseresults.
That is notjust a consequence of strong Lastly, after the AGM I pass the baton performance but a Board policy to onto a talented and accomplished new maintain low financial risk and to take Chairman.
After nearly six and a half where appropriate bold creative and years in what has been a carefully operating decisions.
planned succession I want to thank allour shareholders and colleagues Our Board structure and workings fortheir commitment.
reflectour commitment to a creative, commercial and financial management Being part of ITV during this exciting philosophy.
The team sheet includes period has been a great privilege.
strands of experience and knowledge inall three areas.
We have a relatively small Board, closely engaged with the Archie Norman business, supporting but also challenging Chairman the executive.
We believe that the strength of a Board comes from its understanding of what really goes on in the business and a spirit of openness and transparency around the Board table.
ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13
