Strategic Report Chairmans letter Our job is to grow shareholder value over the medium and long term and we are confident that we can achieve this Dear Shareholder, The UK grocery market is in the midst ofmajor change as customers have significantly adjusted their shopping habits in recent years.
People go grocery shopping more often, buy fewer items oneach visit and are constantly looking for ways to make their lives more convenient.
This trend has triggered significant growth in both convenience and discount stores but has adversely affected sales in supermarkets.
David Tyler, Chairman Strategic Report There has also been a shift towards buying groceries online, which now represents fiveper cent of the total market.
Finally, lower raw material costs combined with increased price competition in our 13.2p market have led to price deflation.
Proposed Sainsburys has chosen to invest in all areas of the market.
We have achieved strong sales growth in our convenience stores and online, and we began a trial in the discount sector in November to bring full-year the Netto brand back to the UK.
We have, however, experienced a decline in sales in our supermarket dividend, stores this year which has adversely impacted our results.
down 23.7% Underlying profit before tax was down 14.7 per cent to 681 million.
Underlying basic earnings per share was down 19.5 per cent to 26.4 pence.
Return on capital employed declined 157 basis points year-on-year to 9.7 per cent.
This decline in profit is much less than that experienced by other major players in the market, but this is not of great comfort to your Board.
Our job is to grow shareholder value over the medium and 681m long term and we are confident, following the strategic review we conducted last summer, that we can achieve this despite the current trends in the grocery market.
Underlying profit before We have a very strong brand and broad customer base, and we are building on this.
We know our customers better than anyone else and are making progress with our strategy of offering a wide tax, down 14.7% range of products and services across food and non-food with our very particular focus on quality, customer service and value.
Our food business is sustainable and trusted by our customers.
Weare already the seventh largest retailer of clothing in the UK by volume, we have a growing general merchandise business and Sainsburys Bank shows great promise.
We aim to grow in all these non-food areas where we believe there are good profit opportunities.
This is your Boards first report since Mike Coupe became Chief Executive last July.
He has made a strong start and he leads a highly experienced and capable management team.
We believe it is the team within our industry that is best positioned to succeed.
Our recent initiatives such as our investment in price and quality are showing encouraging early signs with volume and transaction growth coming through.
Our business is built on strong foundations and we have been able to take our decisions from a position of financial stability.
We are making significant cost savings and reducing capital expenditure to maintain the strength of our balance sheet.
We are also committed to ensuring we pay an affordable dividend and are fixing our dividend policy to two times cover over the next three years.
With this in mind, we are recommending a final dividend of 8.2 pence per share this year, making the proposed full-year dividend 13.2 pence per share.
Our colleagues are our greatest asset.
With their commitment and talent, they remain central to 50m Sainsburys success.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our colleagues for their hard work and dedication to Sainsburys during this challenging year.
They have dealt professionally with Bonus awarded the far-reaching changes associated with our strategy and I am pleased to be able to announce a to colleagues bonusof over 50 million to be shared by colleagues, compared with 80 million last year when profits were higher.
Our values are as important as ever and our priority is to ensure we work hard to achieve our objectives in the areas our customers really care about.
This makes good business sense and also gives us real competitive advantage.
At the AGM, Gary Hughes is stepping down from the Board after ten years as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of our Audit Committee.
I would like to thank Gary for his great contribution to Sainsburys, particularly in the areas of financial and strategic management.
He will be succeeded by David Keens, who joined the Board in April and will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
David brings great experience of the retail sector and of financial management, which will be valuable in the years ahead.
The UK grocery market will remain challenging.
Food price deflation has had a major impact on all players this year and that looks set to continue for the foreseeable future.
In addition, the number of established players in this market means we can expect the competitive intensity on price to remain.
We have a business that is strongly equipped to meet these challenges and build on its successful heritage.
