Overview Executive Chairmans Statement Introduction Board Effectiveness I am delighted to report that our continuing operations have As Executive Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of delivered a record result for the year with a headline profit before the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its tax and exceptional items in excess of 100 million for the first role.
The Board is then responsible for the Groups strategic time.
This result and its ingredients provide a robust platform for development, review of performance against the business further profitable growth, at home and internationally.
objectives, overseeing risk and maintaining effective corporate governance including health and safety, environmental, social This result has been driven by an outstanding performance in our and ethical matters.
Sports Fashion fascias where JDs unique and often exclusive sports and fashion premium brand offer continues to enthuse People and excite both customers and suppliers.
We believe that our We are fortunate, as a Group, to have talented people in every collaborative approach to working with third party brands to aspect of our business.
Our success would not be continuing create a unique, premium and often exclusive offer is a major were it not for the skills, drive and passion of the teams that contributor to our success.
We have the utmost respect for the work in our businesses day to day.
As Executive Chairman, it is brands that we sell and believe in working in partnership with particularly pleasing to see the commitment that the team them to achieve their ambitions.
This, combined with our market show to achieve success internationally.
I thank everybody leading standards of visual merchandising and disciplines involved in delivering these excellent results.
instore, provides the basis for international success.
We have continued to extend our store presence in Europe with Current Trading and Outlook 19 new stores for JD and Size?, taking us to 70 new stores.
Given the significant change in the timing of Easter relative Our continued development recognises that our offer has been to last year, we do not believe that it is appropriate to issue well received to date in these markets.
We are also encouraged any detailed update at this time on trading to date in the new by the performance of Sprinter in Spain and Chausport in France.
That said we are encouraged by continued In so far as this progress continues, we anticipate further growth positive trading across our core fascias.
Our next scheduled in overseas markets.
update will take place upon the announcement of our Interim The turnaround of our Outdoor fascias continues although the Results which is scheduled for 16 September 2015. encouraging results in the first half were somewhat tempered The Board continues to believe that the Group is well positioned in the second half as the milder and drier weather led to a to exploit successfully the opportunities that exist for continued general oversupply relative to demand for winter related product profitable growth.
in the market throughout the season with consequent high levels of discounting.
We continue to work with our branded partners and our own brand supply chain to improve our product proposition and market positioning to achieve a more focused consumer targeting for each part of our business.
Property investment, both in terms of new stores and refitting existing stores, is also required but will be driven by the strength of the Peter Cowgill proposition and the property costs in each location.
We are Executive Chairman conscious that delivery of profitability has been delayed but remain 15 April 2015 determined to enhance our proposition and the efficiency of the operations so that profitability is achieved in 2016 17.
Dividends and Earnings per Share The Board proposes paying a final dividend of 5.90p 2014: 5.6625p bringing the total dividend payable for the year to 7.05p 2014: 6.775p per ordinary share, an increase of 4%.
The proposed final dividend will be paid on 3 August 2015 to all shareholders on the register at 26 June 2015.
Given the increasing success that we are seeing from the international developments of the JD fascia and the capital investment that this requires, we intend to keep dividend growth restrained at this time.
The adjusted earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items have increased by 26% to 38.89p 2014: 30.82p.
The basic earnings per ordinary share have increased by 21% to 35.17p 2014: 29.08p.
