8 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 1.
Overview Chairmans Statement Evolution Not Revolution The changes in leadership last June renewed the energy of the business and Summary continued to build on the foundations that outgoing Chief Executive, Neil Carson, put in place during his successful ten Robust strategy of organic growth supported years in the role.
Neil was replaced by by targeted acquisitions and disciplined Robert MacLeod who had led the portfolio management.
development of the groups strategy during his five years as Johnson Proposed dividend of 68.0 pence up 9% Mattheys Group Finance Director.
Roberts understanding of our on last year.
culture, values and markets, together with his fresh approach from recent Leadership changes effectively managed.
outside experience, made him, in the view of the non-executive directors, External evaluation of the boards performance the stand-out candidate for the job.
He has demonstrated his continued commitment to the groups strategy Company remains in great shape with exciting early on by making sure that last future ahead.
summer it was clearly communicated to all of our employees.
Den Jones joined us in June 2014 from BG Group, replacing Robert as Group Finance Director.
Den brings with him a strong blend of financial leadership experience, international knowledge and highly developed commercial awareness.
Under this new leadership, our group, its strategy, its processes and its structure will continue to evolve.
I am pleased to report that 2014 15 has been a We must remain true to our aspiration of becoming the best that we can be and, good year for Johnson Matthey.
The group has in the process, strike the right balance made further progress, in line with our strategy of between continuity and transformation, organic growth supported by targeted acquisitions aiming to improve by evolution not revolution.
This approach will help build and disciplined portfolio management.
We have a more sustainable and profitable continued to invest in research, in infrastructure company for our shareholders, a better and in our people.
As a result, we saw underlying place to work for our people and will earnings per share increase by 6% to 180.6 pence.
create value adding sustainable technologies for our customers.
A Robust Strategy In pursuit of our strategy to focus 2014 15 was not without its challenges on value adding sustainable technologies, and in the first half of the year foreign we made a number of bolt-on currency exchange rates were not in acquisitions this year, including two our favour.
Furthermore, as expected, in our new business area of battery the change in our contracts with Anglo technologies.
We have also taken steps American Platinum Limited impacted to more actively manage the groups performance in our Precious Metal portfolio and completed the sale of our Products Division.
However, our Gold and Silver Refining business in resilience and diverse portfolio ensured March.
We are also in advanced we continued to make progress: and negotiations on the sale of our Research when we adjust for these two headwinds, Chemicals business.
These divestments performance was strong, demonstrating will help us to concentrate our efforts that our underlying business is in good on what we do best and in the areas shape and continues to grow well.
where we can create the most value.
9 Board Matters Innovation and Innovators In the pages that follow, you can hear During the year we enhanced the The progress that Johnson Matthey from some of our people and find out breadth of experience on the board with makes each year is made possible by more about the areas they are working the appointment of Chris Mottershead.
the dedication of our people.
Youll also see the steps we are taking Chris brings with him a strong technical our innovators.
Across all our divisions to better serve our customers, develop background and a combination of and functions, employees are our talent and build our health and safety relevant industrial and academic collaborating to drive innovation, culture, all of which will drive business experience from his time at BP and focusing on our customers needs, performance over the coming years.
I expect him to creating value for our shareholders and In conclusion: your company bring diversity of perspective, offering a delivering the sustainable technologies remains in great shape and has an deep expertise in energy technology and that make a real difference to peoples exciting future.
A unique combination related global sustainability issues that lives.
On behalf of all our stakeholders, of adaptability, unrivalled technological will enhance the contribution of the board.
I would like to thank every employee expertise, committed people and One of my key responsibilities as for their enthusiasm, hard work and absolute integrity has made us successful Chairman is to promote effective commitment over the last year.
The long term governance at Johnson Matthey, this Without that commitment and the drivers for your company remain firmly being a key element of ensuring that continued professionalism of our people in place and I am confident that these, we remain a successful and sustainable we cant hope to achieve our ambitious together with our robust strategy, should company.
The extent of their contribution ensure the continued growth of Johnson commissioned an external evaluation of was recognised this year when Johnson Matthey over the coming years.
The findings Matthey was awarded the title of Britains confirmed that the board is well Most Admired Company, voted for by balanced in its diverse mix of skills and our peers.
This is an important and experience and performing effectively, deserved accolade.
but that there is scope for it, as a body, Tim Stevenson to provide the executive with even Chairman greater challenge and contribution to the development and implementation of strategy.
We shall be working on achieving this and I am confident that, with the strong team that now comprises the board, this key element of governance will be achieved.
A matter of continuing high priority for the board has been the wellbeing not only of our people, but of our suppliers, customers and communities too.
All board meetings begin with health and safety at the top of the agenda.
New metrics introduced this year have begun an important reinvigoration of the groups performance in this crucial area but there is more to do.
I am pleased that we are heading in the right direction.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
