CHAIRMANS STATEMENT JIMMY CHOO CONTINUED TO OUTPERFORM THE MARKET AGAINST A CHALLENGING BACKDROP PETER HARF NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 16 2015 was a challenging year for the luxury market, with a slowdown in key markets such as Russia and China, as well as currency-led fluctuations in shopping patterns experienced in Asia and the USA, with the impact also felt in Europe and the UK.
Jimmy Choo continued to outperform the market even if total growth softened from 2014.
Revenue during the period increased 7.2% at constant currency driven by continued and consistent growth notably in Asia and Japan, new store openings and the ongoing expansion of the retail and wholesale channels.
HISTORY & STRENGTHS Jimmy Choo is a 21st century accessories brand with shoes at its heart, with a focus on glamour, style authority, craftsmanship, luxury positioning and a distinctive iconic brand, now celebrating its 20th anniversary.
Jimmy Choos journey started in 1996 from an entrepreneurial start-up partnership, where a combination of the shoes of Mr. Jimmy Choo, OBE and the drive and inspiration of Tamara Mellon, OBE, created a luxury footwear phenomenon.
They opened the first store in 1996, in Motcomb Street in London SW1 and sold 3,000 pairs of the first ready-to-wear shoe collection, with Mr. Jimmy Choos niece, WOMENS SHOES Sandra Choi, serving as the Companys Creative Director, a role she THE MAIN DRIVER OF still holds today.
REVENUE GROWTH In 1998, Jimmy Choo opened its first boutique in New York City, followed by Los Angeles.
Jimmy Choo became an innovator in Hollywood, being the first accessory brand to offer award nominees and presenters customised shoes for their red carpet appearances.
The brands presence on the red carpet helped to create a global following and to make it a favoured brand among celebrities, supermodels and royalty.
Throughout its history, Jimmy Choo has been identified by the media as a key element of the fashion vibe, with prominence in films and television such as Sex and the City in 1999, The Devil Wears Prada in 2006 and the Korean show My Love from the Star in 2013.
More recently at the 2015 Oscars, Anna Kendrick and Neil Patrick Harris lyricised in the opening number about Jimmy Choo and the brand also featured in other productions including Empire, the television series.
We also enjoyed a very high profile success following the involvement of Sandra Choi in the design of the Jimmy Choo take on the Cinderella shoe.
The shoe was famously worn by Lily James to the films premire in Berlin and subsequently featured in selected locations around the world, attracting orders for many hundreds of pairs.
ACCESSORIES VOLUMES There has been a sustained period of strong retail expansion STABLE, WITH A TREND supported by private equity ownership.
In 2011, when JAB Luxury TOWARDS SMALLER BAGS GmbH JAB Luxury acquired Jimmy Choo, we had a vision of along-term continued growth strategy built upon the amazing brandand people in the business, underpinned by significant new investment in systems and processes.
JAB Luxury recognised Jimmy Choo as a world class brand, ADJUSTED EBITDA YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER operating in an attractive market, with a strong design, merchandising, production and distribution platform, supported 51.0M bya360 communication programme.
51.0 2015 M 2014 50.2M 2013 46.9M JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 17 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Luxury shoes are a highly complex category, with a range of functions BOARD COMPOSITION including pumps, boots, sandals, wedges and sneakers each at During the year Bart Becht left the Board, given his continuing various heel heights, each in a number of colours and materials and commitments at Coty Inc.. We value the contribution made by each in a range of sizes.
This complexity means that in order to grow Mr. Becht.
We also welcomed three new Directors, Anna-Lena beyond a certain point, systems and processes need to be Kamenetzky, Meribeth Parker and Elisabeth Murdoch to the Board.
sophisticated and scalable, which requires significant investment All of our new Directors complement our international Board of behind the scenes.
Taking Jimmy Choo out of private equity hands in Directors, which has extensive experience of running public 2011 provided the environment for that core investment to commence.
companies in a global environment, with experience in luxury goods, retail, media, technology and consumer goods.
As a result of that investment, the business is now scaled for growth and set to drive operating leverage to generate significant profit We believe that by using this wealth of experience to help monitor growth over the medium-term.
We are well positioned to improve and guide the path of the management of the Company, we will client service through our forthcoming Omnichannel and Customer ensure that the growth Jimmy Choo has produced to date will Relationship Management CRM projects and to capitalise on continue for the foreseeable future.
Please see pages 48 to 51 for recent successful infrastructure investments in SAP and the Swiss fullbiographies of the high calibre individuals who sit alongside warehouse, which we would expect to drive inventory efficiency, PierreDenis, Jonathan Sinclair and me on the Board.
thereby reducing markdowns and increasing cash flow.
OVERVIEW OF RESULTS We are pleased with another year of above market performance ofthe business in 2015.
Revenue increased by 7.2% on a constant SANDRA CHOI currency basis and 6.1% on a reported basis.
Our well invested AND LILY JAMES business demonstrated its operational gearing potential with indirectcosts falling from 12.6% to 12.4% of revenue despite costs associated with public company status, while Adjusted EBITDA grew to 51.0m.
Our store development and transformation programmes led to an expected increase in depreciation charges and this led to Adjusted EBIT of 33.2m, compared with 35.4m in 2014.
Adjusted Consolidated Net Income was reported at 19.0m 2014: 22.9m, with an improved level of financing costs offset by foreign exchange losses on translation.
On a total reported basis, Jimmy Choo reported Consolidated Net Income of 19.4m, compared to a loss in 2014 of10.8m.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM Consistent with our digital strategy and positioning, we have decided THE JIMMY CHOO to make our AGM electronic this year.
We believe that this offers TAKE ON THE vastlyimproved accessibility to all of our shareholders as well as CINDERELLA SHOE permitting them to vote securely and confidentially in advance, by proxy or at the meeting itself.
This is consistent with the themes of astrong digital approach and innovation for which this business and brand is well known.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 18 OUTLOOK RETAIL REVENUE YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER We continue to pursue our overall growth strategy of focusing on thedesign of high quality collections which resonate with our clients 207.7M and of growing the retail business through like-for-like growth and opening additional stores with a focus on Asia ex-Japan and Japan.
2015 207.7M We are rolling out 10 to 15 new DOS per annum, with a focus on China and renovating 10 to 15 of our existing portfolio of DOS in the 2014 192.9M New Store Concept each year.
We have continued to see good 2013 177.4M growth in both Asia ex-Japan and Japan, while Europe grew despite disruption caused by geopolitical events towards the end of the year as a result of the growth in Chinese tourism, offset by the loss of Russian clients.
We continue tosee outperformance by stores in the New Store Concept.
We remain focused on executing our growth strategy and pursuing GOVERNANCE growth without compromising our brand or its luxury position, We believe that good corporate governance is the key to good despite the challenging macro-economic environment and the businesses continuing to grow profitably for the long-term.
difficulties currently faced by the luxury industry.
We remain confident in our ability to grow faster than the market.
Our The Board is mindful of the need to continue to protect and promote businessin Asia ex-Japan where we are underpenetrated and Japan the interests of the Companys minority investors.
The Board is growing well and we have significant opportunities to maintain this believes that the Board and its Committees, with the addition of outperformance in the years ahead.
2016 will see the progressive thenew independent Non-Executive Directors Meribeth Parker and implementation of our Omnichannel platform in the USA and Europe Elisabeth Murdoch, will provide the appropriate corporate governance for our retail and online network.
Our collections continue to be very balance in light of the interests of both the majority shareholder well received with Mens being notably successful.
At the same time, andthe minority shareholders.
All members of the Audit and Risk continuous operating efficiencies and the dynamism and flexibility Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and the ofour teams will allow us to drive margin expansion and a reduction Conflicts Committee assists in the management of the relationship in leverage.
between the Company and its majority shareholder.
Further details ofthese measures are contained within this report.
I would like to thank Pierre and his highly talented teams for their commitment and diligent hard work during the year.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 19
