Strategic Report Chairmans Statement These results again demonstrate the strength of the business model, our ability to deliver incremental Underlying EBITDA while still investing for growth and the continued opportunities we see in the markets in which we operate.
In our first full year since IPO, this model, and the strategy it serves, has not changed.
We continue to create value for shareholders by meeting the needs of restaurants and requirements of consumers, in a marketplace that continues to grow.
We have enhanced our market-leading positions both organically and through ten targeted transactions overtheyear.
Our financial performance was driven by a 65% increase in Active Users and a 57% increase in order volumes, led by a continued shift toward mobile transactions, which accounted for 66% of Group orders.
Our mobile-led strategy is also benefitting our restaurant partners with the launch during the year of our partner centre App, a dedicated business management tool delivered to their mobile device.
Strong governance As JUST EAT matures as a listed company, more of the values and principles that guide us are codified and publicly laid out.
This process is central to the Companys determination to do the right thing by ensuring we meet This was an excellent year for or exceed the expectations of our employees, partners and stakeholders, in governance as well as in other areas.
JUST EAT with revenues up 58% to During 2015, we reviewed a number of policies and codes 247.6 million and Underlying to ensure they provide a positive and productive working environment, rolled out an enhanced Employee Code EBITDA up 83% to 59.7million.
of Conduct and publicly disclosed our carbon footprint Dr John Hughes, CBE, Hon DSc for thefirst time.
The Board will continue to develop the Chairman Companys broader environmental, social and governance ESG arrangements, explained more fully on pages 34 to 65of this Annual Report.
With respect to Board composition, we saw Henri Moissinac step down on 31 July 2015, and I would like to thank Henri for his invaluable contribution and service to the Company.
Diego Oliva was appointed an Independent Non-executive Director and a member of the Companys Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 24 September 2015, MrOlivas extensive international experience in technology, digital marketing and mobile sectors will be a great asset toJUST EAT.
indd 2 06 03 2016 20:55 Strategic Report As discussed in the Companys We have continued to improve our Orders prospectus from the IPO, two market share, most recently through financialsponsor shareholder the strategic acquisition of four appointed directors, Benjamin Holmes businesses announced in February and Michael Risman, are planning 2016.
These acquisitions are consistent 96.2m tostep down from the Board between with our strategy to build and reinforce announcement of the Companys leadership positions in markets of up 57% annual results and its 2016 Annual scale.
Nonetheless, the majority of the 15 96.2m General Meeting AGM, and will not markets that we operate in remain 14 61.2m present themselves for reappointment underpenetrated, offering significant at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board, opportunity to continue shifting 40.2m 13 Iwould like to offer my warmest consumers to ordering online and thanks to both Ben and Michael especially via our Apps.
The strength for their sound advice and major of our brands and technology, along contributions to the Company over with our ability to innovate, will drive Revenues the period of their involvement.
As a our prospects in our core marketplace result of these proposed changes, the as well as opening adjacent markets, number of Board members will reduce, where we see additional opportunity 247.6m although a search is underway to add for incremental revenues and profit.
a further Independent Non-executive up 58% Director, to bring the Board to full compliance with the UK Corporate 15 247.6m Governance Code in every regard.
157.0m 14 An outstanding team 96.8m 13 JUST EATs Executive management team was further strengthened this Dr John Hughes, CBE, Hon DSc year in line with our ambitions to Chairman bringin the additional capabilities Underlying we need to take full advantage of EBITDA theopportunities ahead of us.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of the JUST EAT team 59.7m fortheir hard work and contribution to our continued success under up 83% Davidsleadership.
59.7m 15 Looking ahead JUST EAT has much opportunity to 14 32.6m continue growing: by finding and 14.1m 13 creating opportunities to maximise thebenefits for our consumers, restaurant partners and employees, and in the process to create further shareholder value.
Read more from David Buttress, our CEO: Page 10 3 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs001-005.
