Chairmans statement The vision for Kingsher is to leverage the scale of the business by becoming a single, unied company.
Daniel Bernard Chairman It has been a year of major change Vroniques vision for Kingsher is to Key highlights at Kingsher, with the appointment of leverage the scale of the business by a new Chief Executive officer and becoming a single, unied company Adjusted pre-tax profit significant developments within the rather than a collection of individual portfolio of ourbusinesses.
Achieving this will mean 675m organising ourselves differently.
Key 7.5 % In September 2014 Kingsher areas of focus will include deeper insight announced a Group CEO succession into customer needs which will then be plan, with Sir Ian Cheshire stepping applied consistently across the business, Adjusted basic earnings per share down after seven years in the role.
The selling more similar product ranges succession plan recognised that the next across our operations and adopting 20.9p five years of Kingshers evolution will be a more unied approach to formats, 8.3 % particularly busy, with several long-term systems and people.
We aim to move projects underway.
With this in mind, and at pace, with work already underway to with Ian having already served 16 years Full year dividend develop a unied garden and bathroom with the business and 14 years on the offer across Kingsher and plans to Board, Ian stepped down as Kingsher 10.0p address excess selling space at B&Q UK.
On behalf 1% of the Board, I would like to thank him Helped by these dynamic actions, we for his leadership, which transformed aim to drive more shareholder value Kingsher into a stronger business over the medium term by achieving a profit before taxation during a difficult economic time.
combination of higher sales, maintained I wish Ian well in the future.
gross margins, lower costs and capital 644m discipline.
You can read more about 15.2 % Kingsher was delighted to announce Vroniques plans in the CEO interview theappointment of VroniqueLaury on pages 6-9 and in the strategic update asIans successor.
Vronique is uniquely on pages 12-17. profit for the year qualied for the role, having spent 26 years in the home improvement Also in the year, Kingsher announced 573m sector and 11 at Kingsher, most the completion of the disposal of our 19.3 % recently as CEO of Castorama France.
stake in Hornbach and a binding An outstanding retailer, Vronique is agreement to sell a 70% stake in passionate about helping customers B&Q China to Wumei Holdings for Basic earnings per share have better homes, and I am sure she a cash consideration of 140m.
will provide the leadership, energy and In addition, Screwx opened its first 24.3p pace to deliver the next stageof our stores in Germany its first overseas 19.0 % strategicjourney.
market alongside a nationwide online delivery service.
See Financial Review Kingsher Annual Report 2014 15 4 Strategic Report The capital returns programme which started during the year was the first such programme in King shers history.
Turning to our financial performance last Despite Group pre-tax pro ts declining See pages 18-25 to nd out more information on our financial performance year, the results re ect a mixed picture by 7.5% to 675m, the Board is very across our markets, with the UK picking con dent in the future prospects of up but continental Europe, particularly the business.
This is underlined by the France, proving to be a more challenging ordinary dividend of 10.0p 1% and environment.
In France, the slower the capital returns programme which economy and declining housing market started during the year and was the first affected our performance, particularly for such programme in King shers history.
our more  business, 200m was returned to shareholders Brico Dpt.
during the year, via a special dividend and share buy-back programme.
This In the UK & Ireland, retail pro t grew, programme will continue in 2015 16 with helped by initiatives to re-energise a further 200m planned for the year.
B&Q and by better demand for trade products as housing and construction One other Board change during the year activity improved.
Screw x had another saw Philippe Tible step down from the outstanding year, with sales up by Board in July.
The business opened 60 net at King sher, most recently as CEO new stores in the year whilst continuing Castorama & Brico Dpt brands.
I would to develop its industry-leading like to thank Philippe for his important omnichannel offer.
work developing our businesses in France and, more recently, in Eastern Our aim is to deliver our strategy Europe.
He put in place a first class sustainably and we continued to make management team and nurtured a good progress in this area.
Sales from pipeline of executive talent which will products with eco credentials reached bene t the business enormously in 2.4bn and, to date, we have installed thefuture.
LED lighting in 15% of our store estate, which will saveus around 3m per As always, I would like to pay tribute annum.
Wecontinue to integrate our to King shers 79,000 staff across our sustainable plans within our business businesses.
They continue to do a and aim to re ect that in our move tremendous job and will be crucial in towards a more integrated approach to helping deliver the Boards vision of financial reporting.
You can read more King shers future.
It is an exciting time about ourcommitment to sustainable and I believe we can look forward to the growth intheCEO interview, the Business next stage of King shers development model, and the strategic update.
