Strategic report Chairmans statement The task is clear, Build a Better Ladbrokes and deliver the growth to returnthe business to one that wins more customers and rewards shareholders.
With this in mind the immediate future for Ladbrokes is one ofopportunity and expectation.
It was with a sense of pride that at the end of 2015 I stepped up tobe Chairman of what I regard as one of the biggest and most influential bookmakers.
It is a great honour to lead this Company but it also comes with a weight of expectation as we look forward to2016.
I am acutely aware that shareholders have seen recent falsedawns and am mindful that your patience has been tested.
While we have ended 2015 confident in the plans laid out by our Chief Executive, Jim Mullen, both for organic growth and for the proposed merger with the Coral Group, we have to acknowledge that these plans come at a cost.
The cut in profits and the dividend were necessary steps as part of our journey.
But the task for Ladbrokes is to look forward.
2016 will be an exciting year full of opportunities.
The organic plan to grow is showing encouraging signs and creating a belief in our ability todeliver scale and drive Ladbrokes back to former heights andbeyond.
The proposed merger with Coral is a fast track to scale and we are pleased that shareholders gave it such a vote of confidence at the General Meeting in November 2015.
The competition authorities will not be easy to satisfy, but if we are successful, as we expect to be, the opportunities created are compelling.
Building for long term The appointment of Jim Mullen came after the Board decided that anew approach was needed for the business.
The task set out tohim was clear, build a stronger Ladbrokes and gain the scale needed to compete ever more effectively in a challenging market.
Jim and his team were quick to move the business away from the short-term approach that had dominated, to one with a clear plan and longer term targets.
Jim has united the Company behind his plan to create a business with more recreational customers, more digital revenue and growing profits by 2017.
He has been clear from day one, that the talent in the business never left, it just needed the encouragement and investment to demonstrate its expertise, particularly around sport.
It has been a focus of his tenure and we believe the encouraging customer metrics seen in the second half reflect well on just how much talentthere is in the business.
com In parallel to Jims ambition to get Ladbrokes back as the Darren Shapland also stood down from the Board after six years, sportsbetting destination of choice for the recreational five as Chair of the Audit Committee.
We were delighted towards customer, he also took forward the discussion on the potential the end of the financial year to announce that Mark Pain would merger with Coral to the point where we now are going through be joining as the new Chair of the Audit Committee, a role he the competition authority process to bring this to fruition.
willmaintain in Ladbrokes Coral PLC.
Mark has tremendous experience as both an executive and non executive Director Throughout the year ahead, the Board are clear on the and Iam delighted that he has agreed to join us.
executiveteams task, focus on delivery of the day to day business, increase our appeal to the recreational customer Finally in September we announced that this years set of results andbe ready toexploit the opportunities offered by the merger.
would be the last for Ian Bull as our Chief Financial Officer.
He left us in early 2016 and has been replaced by Richard Snow, who Merger was our Director of Investor Relations.
Richard is a chartered The rationale behind our merger is clear.
Organically our plan accountant by training and has spent his career in banking and recognises that we need to grow to have scale to compete even in public companies.
He will not join the Board but will attend all more effectively in the market.
It will create an industry leading Board meetings.
retail, digital and international business with huge potential to With the option of a potential merger ahead, it is not surprising build scale, and gain wide customer appeal.
that there is a changing of the guard on the Board.
Indeed We will have the opportunity to create a leading management Ithinkit is essential that we keep the thinking and overview of team by choosing the best of both brands in terms of people, thebusiness fresh while maintaining experience and knowledge.
Crucially it also offers As a Board we are keen to ensure that we take a detailed significant ongoing synergy benefits of at least 65 million per viewonnot just the issues of today but also longer-term ones.
You wont be surprised to know that key decisions such as the The case for the merger is one that you have already backed merger, our refinancing and the examinership process in the loudand clear but none of us underestimate the challenge Republic of Ireland were all heavily discussed as well as those inexecution.
forthe longer term such as talent management, culture and riskmanagement systems.
You can see more on our activities Leading the way inthe Corporate Governance section.
2015 has seen yet more change in our market as the ever growing burden of regulation and taxation created the rationale Looking ahead for consolidation.
We were quick to realise that this challenge As I said in my introduction, 2016 is a year both of excitement offered an opportunity and moved early with our proposed and expectation for Ladbrokes.
Others followed and over time we expect more to do so.
We have a strong brand and a team that is enabling that brand to We have also seen the continued evolution of the customer punch its weight in a very competitive market.
We are determined andtheir habits, both on the High Street and in the digital world.
to build on this foundation for the benefit of our customers, Thecustomer expectation of a good retail offer is evolving and shareholders and employees.
that is why we have, and will, continue to look to innovate and to The merger, should it be approved, will give us execution build a multi-channel, or One Ladbrokes approach, as we call it.
While we will allocate the resources to ensure we hit Regulation the ground running, we will be prudent in our approach and not As ever we continue to face regulatory and political headwinds.
This will be a balancing act but Inrecent years, we have seen the introduction of Point of the Board aim to ensure it is one we deliver.
Consumption tax, increases in Machines Games Duty, We are confident that while 2016 will be as competitive as ever, machinestake regulations and advertising restrictions.
we have the right leader, the right team and the right plan to get We are a business in a sector where we accept that there our brand back to what it does best: sports betting expertise shouldbe an appropriate level of regulation.
However, after allied to competitive products and excellent customer focus.
suchhigh levels of change in such a short period we do believe There is now a clear sense of purpose and belief amongst our that it is time for there to be a pause, so that all the changes people and this cannot be underestimated, because as ever it canbed in and their effectiveness be properly assessed.
is our people who will be the key to our success and we remain While some of the change is outside our control, we seek to lead thankful for all their hard work and dedication.
The value it the industry in best practice.
We have actively led and supported provides will never be taken for granted.
self regulation initiatives such as the Senet Group and we remain committed to focusing on fulfilling our license objectives and delivering a safe and responsible offer to our customers.
Board focus Your Board has undergone several changes this year and John M Kelly afterover six years as Chairman, Peter Erskine stood down Chairman inDecember.
He leaves with our very best wishes and thanks forallhis hard work.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 03
