CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 02 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A YEAR OF PROGRESS: A STRONGER COMPANY 2015 has been another good year for Laird We now have an excellent platform from WE NOW HAVE which to develop our business and create and one in which we have continued to AN EXCELLENT deliver against our three core principles of long-term value for our shareholders.
innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed.
PLATFORM BOARD CHANGES During the year we: FROM WHICH In my Chairmans statement last year, widened our range of offerings.
I emphasised the importance of building TO DEVELOP In particular, the acquisition of LS a strong and collaborative Board that can OUR BUSINESS Research and post year-end acquisition provide the leadership and experience to of Novero mean that our fast-growing help oversee Lairds next phase of growth.
wireless internet and telematics During 2015, there were four new businesses will now be of similar scale to appointments announced to the our Performance Materials business: Laird Board: made further progress in diversifying Mike Parker joined us as Senior our customer base.
This has reduced our Independent Director in March.
Mike is a reliance on any one customer: former CEO of Dow Chemical and British developed a plan to streamline our Nuclear Fuels and has wide experience as business to become a more effective a Non-Executive Director on the boards partner for our customers and deliver of several substantial companies: efficiency savings.
The benefits from the Tony Quinlan joined us as CFO in July.
plan we announced in October 2015 will He is a former CFO of Drax and has be significant from 2017 onwards: served at a senior level in Marks & Spencer: continued strengthening the executive Kjersti Wiklund, a Norwegian national, management and Board of the Company joined us as Non-Executive Director in line with our ambitions.
Kjersti is a senior executive at Vodafone and has lived and worked in both Eastern Europe and Asia.
She adds significant technical and international expertise to our Board: Nathalie Rachou, a French national with extensive international financial and M&A experience, joined us on 1 January 2016.
Nathalie is a Non-Executive Director of Socit Gnrale where she chairs the Risk Committee, Veolia Environnement and Altran Technologies.
LAIRD PLC For information about Annual Report & Accounts 2015 our financial performance SEE PAGE 24 03 INTERIM DIVIDEND Given these extensive changes to the Board, Lairds cultural transformation over the PER SHARE we asked Sir Christopher Hum to stay on past three years has delivered a One Laird for an additional year to provide a degree of approach in all aspects of the business.
His many years of The exchange of ideas and sharing of 4.4P experience and insight into Laird will be of innovation are now a fundamental part great benefit to us.
This will mean that the of the way we operate.
This has fostered FINAL DIVIDEND Board will run with one extra Director until collaboration between business units, PER SHARE he retires in December 2016. functions and geographies, leading to new customer wins and improved business Finally, I would like to express our thanks processes.
I would like to thank all our 8.6P to Professor Michael Kelly who retired on employees for their efforts over the year.
30 June 2015 and who made a valuable contribution to Laird over his nine years on UNDERLYING BASIC OUTLOOK the Board.
EARNINGS The sustainable growth of our business PER SHARE remains a key focus.
We continue to make DIVIDENDS strides in diversifying our customer base We aim to deliver shareholder value while also continuing to invest in new 21.8P through organic and inorganic growth geographies and growth opportunities.
14.1% We continue to focus on delivering This year, the Board has proposed a shareholder value by executing against AGM 2015final dividend of 8.60 pence per share this strategy.
After another year of growth, 2014, 8.23 pence, resulting in a 4% increase we remain confident in the strength of TO BE HELD ON in the total full year dividend to 13.0 pence 29 APRIL 2016 our business.
The Boards expectation is to increase dividends ahead DR MARTIN READ, CBE of inflation over time, while taking into CHAIRMAN account underlying profitability, the cash requirements of the business and potential 1 MARCH 2016 investment opportunities to drive future growth.
The final dividend will be payable on 6 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 2 June 2016.
Having assessed our distributable reserves we see no constraints in delivering our policy.
PEOPLE As always, our people are our most important asset.
They are the ones who reflect our values, run our operations and ensure we maintain Lairds good relationships with our stakeholders.
