04 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT From our values to our infrastructure, M&S is a more capable and better equipped business than it was a year ago helping us become the modern, agile company we need to be.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN INTERIM FINAL TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR 2014 2015 6.4p 11.6p 18.0p PAID ON 9 JANUARY 2015 TO BE PAID ON 10 JULY 2015 OVERVIEW the implementation issues outlined below, BOARD CHANGES it was pleasing to exit the year in the final This year we have seen outstanding There have been a number of changes to quarter with all elements of our GM performance in some areas of the business the Board this year.
but performance below our expectations Jan du Plessis, our Senior Independent in others.
The overall result is that Performance in our International Director, stepped down in March 2015, underlying pro ts before tax moved ahead business was disappointing.
Strong sales having served on the Board since 2008.
We have achieved a performance in key owned markets, for I would like to thank Jan for his number of the strategic priorities we set example India and Hong Kong, was more commitment and contribution to M&S over out at the beginning of the year, becoming than off set by macroeconomic issues and the years.
His insights and experience have a more capable company with signi cantly performance in key franchise markets, been invaluable.
Vindi Banga, who has stronger infrastructure, but we experienced particularly Russia, Ukraine and Turkey.
served on our Board since 2012, took on the some implementation issues along the way.
position of Senior Independent Director: he We implemented two crucial pieces of We embedded new values aligned with our also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
These values, which put and our automated distribution centre at integrity at their core, respect our heritage In April 2015, Richard Solomons joined the Castle Donington, two of the largest whilst helping us to become the modern, Board as a non-executive director.
Richard projects of their kind in Europe.
Whilst agile company we need to be.
Above all, we is Chief Executive of InterContinental projects of this scale are likely to remain focused on one thing: off ering our Hotels Group and brings strong experience some initial performance issues, customers products of exceptional quality commercial, consumer, branding and these were greater than we anticipated.
Our and value that they can trust, however they global experience to the M&S Board.
skilled teams acted decisively to address choose to shop with us.
On the executive team I would like to the issues.
The strategic rationale for both extend a warm welcome to Helen Weir, projects remains clear.
PERFORMANCE our new Chief Finance Offi cer.
Helen has Our Food business had an outstanding year exceptional credentials in both retail and BOARD PRIORITIES in a sector that continues to go through finance having previously held the same The Boards three priorities have remained profound change.
In the most competitive position at John Lewis Partnership, Lloyds the same since I became Chairman in 2011: food market of recent years, we delivered Banking Group and King sher.
we are focused on strategy and execution, like-for-like growth in every quarter and people and succession, and values.
Having This year we reviewed our senior maintained our margin.
We have a clear and completed the bulk of our major three-year remuneration framework to align it more distinct off ering and our growth plans look investment programme to transform M&S clearly with our strategic objectives.
into an international, multi-channel retailer, Further details are laid out in our Our General Merchandise GM business the Boards focus again this year was on Remuneration Report on page 52. delivered signi cant margin gains the ensuring that our substantial investment first step in reaping the bene ts of the A delivers the required returns.
We also OUR VALUES AND PLAN A investment we have made and our devoted time to ensuring we have the right The culture at M&S is important to the products were well received by our talent and skills required in our business, Board.
Our values are a fundamental part of customers and the fashion press.
Whilst and to debating and articulating our values, how we do business they are what makes our overall performance was aff ected by discussed below.
Last June we introduced four 05 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GOVERNANCE PROFILE OUR GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES Independence Half of our Board is made up Experience Throughout 2014 15, two members LEADERSHIP See p34 of independent non-executive directors, in of the Audit Committee had recent and The Board rigorously challenge each other line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
on strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability to ensure that the decisions we Senior Independent Director Our Senior Tenure The tenure of our previous external make are of the highest quality.
Independent Director is Vindi Banga.
auditor was over ten years.
In 2014 15 we appointed a new statutory auditor, Deloitte, Accountability and election We have clear EFFECTIVENESS See p41 following a thorough tender process.
separation of duties between Chairman and The Boards performance is scrutinised in an annual CEO roles, and require all the directors to Non-audit policy We have a policy for the eff ectiveness review.
This examines the progress stand for re-election annually.
award of non-audit work performed by our we are making against our plan, our collective and auditor, which is disclosed on our website, and individual eff ectiveness, and the independence of our Evaluation An externally facilitated we have disclosed the limited non-audit work non-executive directors.
performance evaluation of the Board and its undertaken.
committees was undertaken during the year, ACCOUNTABILITY See p44 as it is every three years.
Auditor appointment We disclose our external auditor appointment policy.
All of our decisions are discussed within the context Attendance The Directors have all attended of the risks involved.
Eff ective risk management is an acceptable level of Board and Committee Internal Audit Details on the internal audit central to us achieving our strategic objectives.
function are provided within this report.
Compliance The composition of all Board Performance-related pay A signi cant part ENGAGEMENT See p51 committees complies with the application of our performance-related pay is delivered Maintaining strong relationships with our recommendations of the Code.
shareholders, both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving our aims.
We hold numerous Reward Our reward framework is simple and events throughout the year to maintain an open transparent and is designed to support and dialogue with investors.
See Governance Section p32-82 new core values built on the principles that STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LOOKING AHEAD AND DIVIDEND have guided M&S since it was founded in Engaging with stakeholders and employees M&S is a more capable and better 1884.
The values Inspiration, Innovation, is particularly important during times of equipped business than it was a year ago.
Integrity and In Touch aim to equip us all change.
We communicate regularly with our In the coming year we will continue to to deliver our strategic plans.
shareholders to ensure they understand focus on growth in Food, improving our progress and plans.
Outside our results, But while the words are new, we have not GMperformance, further improving this year, we held investor brie ngs on changed what matters to us.
Acting with margins and cash generation.
com and our International business, integrity is at the heart of the way we do Our dividend policy remains a progressive and Marc Bolland and his executive team business.
So our customers can be sure one, with dividends broadly covered twice had many meetings with investors.
All that the GM margin gains we achieve will by earnings.
We intend to pay a final information shared at these events not come at the expense of the standards dividend of 11.6p this year, taking the total is available to shareholders at we expect in our factories: they can be dividend to 18.0p, up 5.9% on last year.
We safe in the knowledge that we will not context of our increased free cash ow, we again held a governance event for our compromise on the provenance of our are also pleased to announce an ongoing largest shareholders, which I led with our food: and they can rely on us to be a force programme of returns of capital to Senior Independent Director.
for good in the communities in which we shareholders, starting this year, with a operate.
We have recently implemented a new share buyback programme of 150m.
loyalty scheme for our private investors.
Our commitment to Plan A, the Finally, I would like to thank all our The scheme allows over 190,000 of our programme we launched eight years ago to employees for their hard work and UK-registered private investors to use become the worlds most sustainable major commitment at a time of signi cant money from their dividend payment to buy retailer, remains as deeply held today as it change.
M&S employees are dedicated and an M&S Shareholder Card at a discount.
As people become increasingly upbeat I am always struck by their positive operates much like a gift card.
The initiative aware of how their behaviour impacts the attitude and energy.
Their pride in M&S and re ects the fact our private investors are world around them, we believe businesses commitment to the business are what also some of our most loyal customers and need to connect with the communities in makes us special.
I want to thank every we value them greatly.
From healthy living one of them in stores and in our offi ces to ethical sourcing, we are committed to Our Fit for the Future programme was one for their contribution this year.
leading the way and striving to off er our of our biggest ever engagement exercises, customers the most sustainable options where employees discussed the shape of possible.
As M&S becomes more the new values.
We also launched a scheme international, our ability to lead with others for the 3,500 section managers who on a global scale grows, whether by using between them manage 92% of our sales our scale to drive improvements in our own oor colleagues.
The programme inspired ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN supply chain, or by lending our expertise to and motivated these managers, who are global industry initiatives.
GOVERNANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PERFORMANCE
