Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Building for now and the future Our objective is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value based on our vision to establish Marshalls as a world-class hard landscape business.
Overview I am pleased to report that 2015 has been another good year for Marshalls Summary and that we are well placed to make further progress in the year ahead.
All of our businesses have performed well, achieving significant growth Core values remain leadership, excellence, in revenue and profitability with benefits arising from favourable market conditions and strong operational gearing.
Since the half year, trust and sustainability.
the Group has entered the FTSE 250, which further demonstrates the Entered FTSE 250 with significant growth continuing progress in the business.
Our core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability generate a strong underpin for all we do and provide a foundation on which to Well placed to make further progress build for the future.
Our primary objective is to improve profitability intheyear ahead.
and to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
Results Full-year dividend of 7.00 pence up 17% Marshalls revenue is up 8 per cent to 386.2 million for the year and a discretionary supplementary dividend andprofit before tax is up 57 per cent to 35.3 million.
earnings per share at 14.32 pence is up 41 per cent.
These results reflect our focus on customer service, the strength of the Marshalls brand, our range of innovative quality products and the improved performance of our smaller businesses.
Dividends The Board recognises the importance of dividends to our shareholders.
Marshalls has strong cash generation and a robust balance sheet and this supports our progressive dividend policy.
Aspreviously stated, the Group maintains the objective of achieving up to 2 times dividend cover over the business cycle.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 4.75pence 2014: 4.00 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 2.25 pence 2014: 2.00 pence per share, represents a total ordinary dividend of 7.00 pence 2014: 6.00 pence per share.
In addition, in light of the Group's strong free cash flow, the Board has reviewed its approach to dividends in order to ensure we maintain an efficient and prudent capital structure which looks to provide increased returns to shareholders whilst at the same time retaining flexibility for capital and other investment opportunities.
As a result, the Board is declaring a supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share this year: this supplementary dividend is discretionary and non-recurring.
Taken together, the ordinary and supplementary dividends comprise an aggregate distribution for the year of 9.00 pence per share.
The final ordinary dividend of 4.75 pence per ordinary share will, subject to the Andrew Allner shareholders' approval at the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2016, Chairman be paid alongside the supplementary dividend of 2.00 pence per share on 8 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 3 June 2016.
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Under our Remuneration Policy, the management receives a large Strategy proportion of their remuneration in shares which must be retained As your Chairman, it is my responsibility to lead and manage the Boardin forup to 5 years.
This ensures a strong alignment between the interests relation to the formulation of strategy.
Our objective is todeliver sustainable of management and our shareholders.
I am also delighted that we growth in shareholder value based on our visionto establish Marshalls as a have launched the Marshalls 2015 Sharesave scheme which encourages world-class hard landscape business.
We have returned to pre-recession wider ownership of Marshalls plc shares across the entireworkforce.
profitability which completes Phase 1 of our strategy.
Phase 2 charts our The scheme gives employees the option in the future to buy shares strategy to 2020 and is outlined in the Chief Executive's Statement.
ata discounted price and has been extremely well received.
Keyrelationships are particularly important and Marshalls success Board changes iscritically dependent on the positive interaction between the Groups employees, customers, suppliers andother stakeholders.
Alan Coppin is retiring from the Board following the Annual General Meeting in May 2016, having served as Non-Executive Director, The Marshalls brand remains central to our strategy and the Group SeniorIndependent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration has again received Superbrand status for 2016.
Marshalls is a benchmark Committee since May 2010.
He has demonstrated strong for excellence and the 3 cornerstone themes of customer service, independence of thinking and has been a wise and supportive quality and sustainability remain essential to the brand and put the counselto me in his role as Senior Independent Director.
I would like customer at the very heart of our business.
Continual innovation tothank Alan for his significant contribution over the last 6 years.
andnew product development remain key priorities.
In March 2015 I was delighted to welcome Janet Ashdown to the Board.
Governance Janet is a Non-Executive Director of SIG plc and the Coventry Building As a Board we are committed to promoting the highest standards Society and has a wide range of skills and experience.
She was also ofcorporate governance and ensuring effective communication recently appointed to the Board of the Nuclear Decommissioning withshareholders.
We continue to comply with all of the provisions Authority.
Following AlanCoppins retirement from the Board, Janet ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code as outlined in our Corporate will become the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41. theRemuneration Committee.
This years Annual Report further develops the improvements that we People introduced last year and contains a number of additional features that Marshalls has an outstanding group of employees and we continue aim to improve clarity for shareholders.
We believe this will continue to place great importance on employee engagement.
Our objective to ensure a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the is to provide successful careers for our employees and opportunities Groups position and prospects.
for development and personal growth.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our employees for their professionalism and their In my report last year I set out a number of specific Board actions for2015 including further consideration of strategic issues, increasing ongoing support, commitment and dedication to Marshalls.
focus on dynamic risk reporting, identifying particular business areas Outlook for closer review and increasing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors The Group is well positioned to achieve further growth and looking to meet senior management below Board level through a programme ahead I remain very optimistic.
Market conditions are forecast to of site visits.
I am pleased to report that all of these commitments bepositive for the next few years.
We have a clear strategy, a strong have been addressed and significant progress has been made in management team, an excellent workforce and a significant opportunity.
The Board continues to maintain an open and transparent I am therefore looking forward to further growth in the year ahead.
culture and no restrictions or pressures are placed on Board members that could result in views or opinions not being expressed.
The Group aims to be transparent throughout its operations and I am pleased that, during 2015, Marshalls has been awarded the Fair Tax Andrew Allner Mark for responsible tax behaviour and transparency in its tax affairs.
Chairman Board development is a constant priority and we continue to challenge the effectiveness of the Board against detailed and continually developing performance criteria.
During the year, an internal evaluation of Board performance was conducted by the Group Company Secretary.
The review sought to improve the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and ofindividual Directors.
I am pleased to report that no areas ofmaterial concern were highlighted although a number of areas wereidentified Innovation forimprovement during 2016.
These include further consideration of longer-term strategy planning, risk management andbusiness resilience.
We combine clever engineering and technology Additional consideration will also be given toBoard succession planning with imaginative ways to save time and costs across all disciplines, from innovative paving along with greater focus on succession planning below Board level.
I will options, to sustainable urban drainage report on progress against these initiatives next year.
systems and the very latest in creative street furniture solutions.
36 Corporate Governance page 36 M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
