Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans statement the transformation of our pub portfolio is largely complete and has created significant shareholder value.
Since 2009 we have opened 134 new pub-restaurants.
OVERVIEW of our strategic plans, the level of challenge and balance of Our results demonstrate that we made good progress in 2015, the Board.
We have a good blend of skills and experience on with turnover up 7.4% to 845.5 million, and underlying profit the Board and expect all Directors to contribute effectively to before taxation up 10.2% to 91.5 million.
In this report we governance matters and our business development.
highlight improved leverage, return on capital and growth, DIVIDEND demonstrating the effectiveness of our strategy.
We have a progressive dividend policy linked to earnings, Our strategy to grow through investment in new-build pubwhile targeting dividend cover of two times over the medium restaurants and sell smaller wet-led pubs has been consistent term.
The proposed final dividend of 4.5 pence per share over several years, and has contributed to the transformation provides a total dividend for the year of 7.0 pence per share, of the business into a national pub operator.
It has also and represents a 4.5% increase on 2014.
The proposed 4.5% contributed to a significant improvement in the quality of our increase is supported by strong earnings growth and improved pub estate as reected in the 40% increase in average profit dividend cover.
Dividend cover was 1.8 times 2014: 1.7 times.
per pub since 2012 and, as a consequence, created significant PEOPLE shareholder value.
These results reect the hard work of all who have worked for This year, we allocated more capital to Premium pubs and Marstons this year and their contributions are appreciated.
lodges, exploiting skills and assets already present in the We now have around 13,500 employees across the Group: Iam Marstons business and I anticipate that will continue in 2016. confident that our plans to make Marstons The Place to Be Investment for the future will remain a key component of and put people at the heart of all we do will reect their value our plans.
to our business and will offer good opportunities for further development and training.
In Brewing, our strategy remains consistent with increased consumer demand for choice, quality and provenance in beer.
OUTLOOK The acquisition of Thwaites beer business in April 2015 further The effective implementation of our clear, differentiated strengthened our market-leading ale brand portfolio in a strategy together with good governance and ensuring that growing segment of the market.
shareholder interests are paramount are the main areas of focus for the Board.
I am confident that this will lead to the Operational effectiveness is critical: we continue to work hard to continued creation of shareholder value and that our strategy is ensure that our pubs are attractive in a very competitive leisure appropriate for current market conditions.
market and to build on our excellent portfolio of beers.
We have performed ahead of our peers in pubs and in brewing, so there is clear evidence that our operational focus is working.
Roger Devlin Chairman BOARD The appointments of Carolyn Bradley and Catherine Glickman as Non-executive Directors this year added marketing and people skills to the Board.
This contributed to the development 4
