STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 5 Chairmans statement Meggitts safety record at every facility has benefited in recent years from the establishment of global standards, measurement and direction.
Difficult trading conditions in several appointed senior independent director Dividend end-markets made 2015 a challenging with effect from January 2016.
I would The Board is proposing a final dividend of year for Meggitt, with weakness in energy like to take this opportunity to thank 9.80 pence per share 2014: 9.50 pence and slower than expected growth in civil Sir Colin and David for their significant per share, taking the full-year dividend to aftermarket impacting results.
However, contributions to the business and wish 14.40 pence per share 2014: 13.75 pence the Group made good progress with a them well for the future.
This is a 5% increase for the number of key strategic initiatives targeted year, reflecting the Boards progressive at improving our operational efficiency and Our people dividend policy and continuing confidence market access.
People are central to the success of any in the Groups medium-term growth and business.
All deserve to work in safe cash generation prospects.
The Meggitt Production System, our global environments and reach their full approach to continuous improvement, has potential.
Meggitts safety record at every Investing for growth now been launched at virtually all Meggitt facility has benefited in recent years from facilities.
We are very pleased with the Our continued investment in technology the establishment of global standards, operational improvements we have seen will ensure the future growth of the measurement and direction, and in 2015, so far, and the programme is gaining business.
In 2015, research and for instance, we saw a 20% decrease in excellent traction both inside the Group development expenditure comprised lost-time incidents in the workplace.
The and with our suppliers and customers.
9.6% of revenue or 158.7 million 2014: Meggitt Production Systems success is 148.3 million, of which 26.8 million We formed a new aftermarket organisation predicated on harnessing talent at every was funded by customers.
The vast to respond better to the requirements of level in the organisation.
We continue to majority of this investment supports our customers, who are looking for invest in the delivery of superior graduate positions secured on future aerospace long-term partnerships and strategies to training, with an international rotation platforms and will continue at an elevated improve airline economics.
We also programme attracting high-calibre level during 2016 before declining as the strengthened our capability in aerospace individuals from leading engineering wave of programmes in development composites with two high-quality faculties worldwide.
After launching it starts to enter commercial service.
acquisitions, both of which will deliver three years ago, our first cohort These investments have a very attractive good growth on new platforms entering graduated in October 2015 after making payback and will support revenue growth into service over the coming years.
significant contributions to technology for many years.
development, engineering programmes Results and a range of projects in their nonCorporate governance and In 2015, Group revenue increased by 6% to engineering rotation.
Given the widethe Board 1,647.2 million, driven largely by foreign ranging nature of our production system The Board recognises that good corporate currency translation, with organic revenue implementation, we have extended the governance is a major contributor to the programme with the addition of an flat.
Underlying operating profit decreased delivery of strong Group performance, by 6% to 325.5 million and underlying operations excellence stream, now in its and is therefore committed to maintaining earnings per share by 2% to 31.6 pence.
the highest standards at Board level.
As While this was a solid performance given I would like to take this opportunity to part of the normal evolution of the Board, difficult trading conditions, it was below our extend my warm thanks to all employees there were a few changes since the last expectations and those of our stakeholders.
for their outstanding commitment during annual report.
In April 2015, Sir Colin The cash-generative nature of the Groups the Groups challenging year.
Terry retired after 12 years on the Board activities remained unchanged, however, and I succeeded him as Chairman.
In and 2015 saw a good improvement in free October, we welcomed Colin Day to the cash flow to 199.0 million, even with the Board as non-executive director and continuing high levels of investment in the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
After business arising from an unprecedented over nine years as non-executive director, level of new business won during the most recently as senior independent recent bid cycle.
director, David Williams retired at the end of the year and Paul Heiden was Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman
