Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 06 Annual Report 2015 Chairmans statement The Board is looking forward to another successful chapter in the Groups history and, in due course, to invite shareholders to invest in the next project.
th I am pleased to report our 13 set of Dividend Strategy annual results since flotation in 2003.
Following the sale of Elster and the Since Melroses flotation in 2003 and subsequent 2.4 billion capital return, the introduction of our buy, improve, sell Results for the Group shareholders have received 4.3 billion strategy, we have seen many changes 2015 has been a highly successful year for of payments over the lifetime of Melrose, in economic and stock market conditions.
Melrose and represents another milestone comfortably exceeding the 2 billion Nevertheless, through all this, returns to in our proven buy, improve, sell strategy.
These payments shareholders have been extremely good.
In March, 200.4 million was returned to shareholders have come largely from We continue to see businesses which to shareholders following the sale of significant gains on selling companies, are candidates for our management and Bridon in November 2014.
In December, but also from a progressive annual investment methods and we are confident we completed the sale of the Elster dividend policy.
we will identify a suitable opportunity business to Honeywell International Inc. in due course.
In the meantime, we will The Board recognises that the Group has for a cash consideration of 3.3 billion continue to focus on developing our a different shape, owning one business and, at the same time, divested the related existing business, Brush.
and carrying no debt, and that prior to any and certain unrelated pension obligations.
new acquisition it is appropriate to rebase Further details on this transaction are Outlook the annual dividend per share to reflect set out in the Chief Executives review The world economy remains uncertain.
the current size and shape of the Group.
Across the manufacturing sector this uncertainty is leading to reduced business The Board proposes to pay a final The presentation of this years results investment.
Brush is not immune to these dividend of 2.6p per share 2014: 5.3p.
has been dominated by the Elster disposal, economic challenges.
However, for the This will be paid on 16 May 2016 to those which contributed over three quarters reasons set out in the Chief Executives shareholders on the register at 8 April of the revenue of the Group in 2014 and, review, we believe that Brush is well 2016, subject to approval at the Annual up to the date of disposal, had contributed positioned to capitalise on new business General Meeting AGM on 11 May 2016.
1,107.4 million to revenue during 2015. opportunities and to benefit from any Melroses remaining business, Brush, Board matters improvement in market conditions.
Revenue Succession planning is critical to The search actively continues for from continuing businesses for the year maintaining the effectiveness and quality businesses which meet our investment was 261.1 million 2014: 324.3 million of the Melrose Board and it remains an criteria.
The Board is looking forward to and headline operating profit before area of focus for 2016.
Perry Crosthwaite another successful chapter in the Groups exceptional costs, exceptional income will be retiring from the Board at the history and, in due course, to invite and intangible asset amortisation was conclusion of this years AGM.
Perry shareholders to invest in the next project.
has held a non-executive position on the Recent conditions in the global equity Melrose Board since 2005 and his advice Further details of these results are markets have only confirmed your Boards and extensive financial experience have contained in the Finance Directors review view that 2016 could be an exciting year been invaluable to Melrose: we wish him on pages 20 to 26. for Melrose and we are confident that every success in the future.
Perry will be a suitable acquisition will be identified, As ever, I would like to thank all our replaced as senior non-executive Director bringing with it another opportunity to employees for their efforts in helping to by John Grant, who will also continue create substantial value for shareholders.
to hold the position of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A search is underway Christopher Miller for a new non-executive Director and Chairman an appointment is expected to be made 3 March 2016 during the year.
Finance Directors review 20 Corporate Governance Report 54
