Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS Statement After a very successful first year following Merlins IPO in SirJohnSunderland November 2013, 2015 was a more difficult year for your Chairman Company.
The dominant event was the traumatic accident at Alton Towers on 2 June.
Up to that moment our customers had enjoyed hundreds of millions of rides in complete safety.
Nevertheless on that day our procedures and training did not prove adequate to the task of preventing this particular accident.
We immediately accepted responsibility and are of course profoundly sorry for the trauma to those who were injured.
We have already announced the direct cause and have introduced a series of enhanced and rigorous new protocols to ensure there can be no repetition of this accident.
Safety and customer service have always been the foundation upon which Merlin bases its appeal to our worldwide market.
This will continue to be the case, and ensuring the safety of our customers will remain at the forefront of the Boards oversight agenda.
Since June visitor numbers at Alton Towers were well below our original targets for the year.
We announced to the market in July the expected impact this would have on the Companys financial performance for the year, and these predictions have been borne out.
Despite the great shadow cast by this incident, I am able to report that business elsewhere in the Merlin empire performed satisfactorily.
There were the usual swings and roundabouts but overall our performance delivered in line with the revised consensus.
Health, safetyandsecurity Merlin has a strong safety culture that underpins the delivery of millions of memorable experiences to our guests each year.
On 2 June the serious accident at Alton Towers was a reminder of this imperative for the safety and security of our visitors to be at the centre of everything we do.
Our thoughts remain with those injured and we will continue to support them in the future in whatever way we can.
Our absolute focus is to make sure that, through continuous improvement, such an accident cannot happen again.
Merlin has made specific improvements with regard to processes and procedures on rides like The Smiler.
We also continue to invest in our Health and Safety teams and infrastructure around the Group and will ensure this investment continues as the Group grows.
We have never been, nor will we ever be, complacent in this area.
Our Health, Safety and Security Committee report on pages 66 to 69 provides more specific details on how we approach this most important area.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS Statement  Our LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group had another strong year after the record performance in 2014.
The parks broadened I have yet again been their demographic appeal with major investments in the LEGO Friends product, and expanded their themed accommodation impressed by the leadership offering with the opening of a hotel at LEGOLAND Florida.
Midway Attractions delivered a solid performance overall, and dedication of Merlins albeit with specific regional challenges.
Visitation to our London management team and attractions was impacted by the relative weakness of the Euro, while travel restrictions affected trading in Hong Kong.
Trading our many thousands in the Resort Theme Parks Operating Group was materially impacted by the accident at Alton Towers, but we are of employees particularly pleased with the performance of Gardaland, boosted by the opening of the Oblivion dive-coaster, and our accommodation offering across the parks.
Merlins strategic development has continued.
We launched a  CSR new DreamWorks Tours brand, with the first attraction, based In 2015 Merlins CSR activities were brought together under on the Shrek film franchise, opening in July in London.
We also one central theme of Being a Force for Good to reinforce a announced a joint venture with China Media Capital to develop consistent global approach that reflects Merlins values.
Midway attractions and a LEGOLAND park in China, further evidence of the opportunities we see in that growing market.
Within sustainability and the environment all our businesses are These specific developments add to our existing programme required to develop carbon reduction targets and sustainability of rolling out Midway attractions, developing new LEGOLAND plans.
Under marine and wildlife conservation we focus our parks and creating destination resorts at our theme parks activities on protecting wildlife globally through rescue, breeding, through the provision of themed accommodation.
conservation and education, most notably though the activities of our charity the SEA LIFE Trust.
Merlins Magic Wand is our  own childrens charity that delivers magical experiences around In January 2016 Andrew Carr, Merlins Chief Financial Officer, the world to children who are disadvantaged through sickness announced his intention to retire.
On behalf of the Board I or disability.
It does this by arranging visits to our attractions: would like to thank him for the dedication he has shown by installing magical spaces - themed areas at childrens homes to the Group during the last 16 years.
He has been a major and hospitals: and through community outreach activities where contributor to Merlins phenomenal growth during this period attraction teams take the magic to local childrens organisations.
and its successful transition to a public company.
We have Finally, we have the long term aspiration of becoming industry recently announced that Anne-Francoise Nesmes will join in leaders for visitors affected by disability.
Our accessibility August as Andrews successor.
We look forward to working initiatives are therefore aimed at raising awareness and with her as Merlin continues to grow.
delivering environments that provide access for everyone.
More details can be found on pages 51 to 57.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2015, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas the representatives of our two pre-IPO Ourpeople private equity shareholders Blackstone and CVC, stood down, as did In this most challenging of years, I have yet again been impressed Miguel Ko who left us due to other full time executive commitments.
by the leadership and dedication of Merlins management team We thank them all for their valuable input.
Following the 2015 AGM and our many thousands of employees around the world.
we were fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
I would like to thank all of them for their contribution.
I am very pleased that we have since appointed two new As we move into 2016, I am confident that with their Non-executive Directors.
Trudy Rautio and Yun Rachel Chiang continued commitment and our proven business model, we bring with them wide experience in the major markets of the are well placed to continue to deliver further growth in the USA and China across leisure and other industries.
Dividends The Board will be recommending to the AGM in May that we pay a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share in June.
Taken SirJohnSunderland together with the interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share Chairman paid last September, this will equate to a full year dividend 24 February 2016 of 6.5 pence per share, up 4.8% on 2014.
