Executive Chairmans statement 2015 was a significant year for Micro Focus has not changed in any significant way from integration review and reiterated the in the execution of its long-term strategy.
the plan laid out three and a half years ago.
remaining three stage plan that will During the year we completed the acquisition Micro Focus sets out to deliver consistent consolidate and strengthen the combined of The Attachmate Group TAG.
The long-term shareholder returns of between business, with the goal of delivering modest acquisition, which was completed on 15% and 20% per annum.
The board is revenue growth in the medium-term.
20November 2014, means that we have confident that medium-term low single digit We are building a strong platform with created a global infrastructure software revenue growth, industry leading margins and anticipated operating cash flows in excess business with revenues of c. $1.3bn and strong cash conversion will ensure that Micro of $500m per annum from which we EBITDA of c. $500m which we estimate places Focus can deliver on that strategy.
can achieve significant returns of value the Group in the top 15 by size worldwide of to our shareholders and or further highly similar businesses.
The acquisition was well The Company has an industrial strategy: accretive acquisitions.
received by the market with the share price up a financial strategy: an operating plan over 60% since the day before announcement and an incentive strategy that are all linked Integration Review of the transaction up to the date these and focused on our objective to achieve The objective of the review was to build financial statements were signed.
15% to 20% compound annual return a strong plan and foundation on which for shareholders.
Since IPO in 2005 until to deliver the Groups potential.
The acquisition has clear industrial logic 30 April 2015 the annual compound to extend market presence in mature and shareholder return has been 26.8%.
The key deliverables from the review were: growing segments: to increase the operational efficiency of the combined Group: and to When we announced the acquisition on The design of a combined organization deliver effective product management and 15September 2014 we set out a four phase to be implemented with effect from improve sales productivity.
Furthermore, it is plan for the combination of the businesses 1 May 2015: 100% consistent with the Companys strategy whilst continuing to deliver sustainable which, as you will see in the following pages, shareholder returns.
A restructuring plan for the next 24 months: Implementation: Four Phase Plan whilst delivering sustainable A combined budget for FY16: shareholder returns Decisions on Company and Product FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Branding: Phase 4: Decisions on product priorities and Growth required execution plans: Phase 3: Stabilization Actions: A systems design and implementation plan Phase 2: Top line growth for the Companys IT infrastructure: and Integration Actions: Phase 1: Stabilize Confirmation of the Companys cash Assessment Actions: top line flow profile.
Standardize Improve GTM Actions: systems productivity Prior to the acquisition of TAG, Micro Deliver plans Rationalize Growth from Focus managed its portfolio of mature for FY15 properties new areas infrastructure products through a global Detailed Rationalize Improved product management and development review of legal entities profitability organization and with a geographic Go to combined New Go to Market GTM organization.
Fundamental businesses Market GTM to this approach was a detailed analysis of the Invigorate model individual products, their markets, customers product Maintain and growth potential.
This approach has management improve cash served us well and as part of the Integration conversion Review has been applied to the portfolio of Rationalize products in the Enlarged Group.
underperforming elements As the Linux market and Open Source New market business have unique characteristics, we initiatives now have a dedicated focus on the SUSE product portfolio headed by Nils Brauckmann as President and General Manager, SUSE.
This focus is essential if we are to capitalize We kept Base Micro Focus and TAG on the growth potential of these offerings operating separately during their respective and be responsive to the Open Source financial year ends whilst the assessment community and strong heritage of SUSE.
of the acquired business and planning for We are increasing the headcount dedicated the integration was done.
On 6 April 2015 to development, customer care and sales we announced the conclusion of our and marketing of the SUSE Portfolio.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 04 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The rest of our products will be managed These actions will make integration of By enabling our customers to link their as a portfolio led by Stephen Murdoch, future acquisitions easier to achieve and investments in established technology Chief Operating Officer of Micro Focus.
deliver a faster time to value.
with the latest innovation, Micro Focus This portfolio will comprise products that were helps customers gain incremental returns in Micro Focus, NetIQ, Attachmate and Novell.
At completion of the acquisition on on investments they have already made This approach is consistent with how we have 20November 2014 the total employee and to preserve and protect their data and managed Micro Focus successfully over the headcount was 4,641.
As a result of business logic.
The most striking example last four years and we believe that by adopting implementing the actions outlined on of this is that an application written in this model we can serve our customers and 6April 2015 there will be a gross reduction Micro Focus COBOL 38 years ago partners better.
Within this portfolio, each in employee headcount of approximately before anyone had thought of Linux, product will have a defined strategy, target 500and an increase, compared to Windows, virtualization, cloud or wireless market and growth profile and we will make 20November 2014, of headcount in communications will work today in all other areas of approximately 150, resulting investments accordingly.
We will retain a of those environments.
Micro Focus has in a net reduction of employee headcount geographic GTM organization with dedicated made this a reality.
By contrast, if a COBOL of approximately 7.5% compared with sales teams by portfolio but with management application had been rewritten in another 20November 2014. targeted on the sales of both the Micro Focus language, to execute in Java or.
NET the and SUSE Portfolios.
customer would have to do additional As a result of the acquisition of TAG incremental re-writes and incur significant and the actions resulting from the A consequence of this decision is that we costs every time there was a major integration review, we have an exceptional are simplifying the branding and packaging technology change.
charge in the FY15 annual accounts of of our portfolio to make it easier for $99.1m and anticipate that there will be customers to do business with us and In essence, we help our customers bridge a further exceptional charge in the FY16 leverage the breadth of technology solutions the old and the new enabling them annual accounts.
For example, we are to leverage additional value from their combining our leading host connectivity investments in critical IT infrastructure solutions of Reflection and Rumba into one and business applications.
Our Business Model portfolio of Micro Focus branded solutions strong and established enabling customers to leverage the best of The acquisition of TAG broadens the technology franchises both technologies.
A similar approach of range and depth of our core infrastructure Micro Focus specializes in managing mature simplification will be taken systematically software solutions and brings outstanding infrastructure software assets which have across the full portfolio.
This will help new capabilities in Linux, OpenStack cloud been delivering value to significant numbers underpin our new structure of one company infrastructure and security, the combination of customers over long periods of time.
with two product portfolios, namely Micro of which enables us to extend this Our product portfolios have some or all Focus and SUSE.
philosophy of bridging the old and the of the following attributes: new across much more of the customers We have launched an updated Professional ITfootprint.
Broad based covering all industrial sectors Charter which covers the behaviours we expect to see from all Micro Focus 2.
Significant numbers of customers employees and a Compliance Charter to give clarity to customers and partners 3.
Significant maintenance streams on how the Company will act in circumstances where there is a question 4.
Relatively high switching costs around compliance with our software licencing agreements.
Significant market positions As part of the restructuring we will be In any IT system the customers business reducing the number of office locations logic and data remain critical to their from 126 at close to approximately 90 by competitive advantage.
The key is unlocking April 2016: we will simplify the number this competitive advantage through of legal entities: we will consolidate our exploitation of the latest technology IT systems for example: from five CRM innovation such as OpenStack, Softwaresystems to one and from two general defined Distributed Storage, big data ledgers to one and we have commenced virtualization and cloud.
All of this needs to consultation on a move from distributed be done with the appropriate security processing to dedicated shared service to ensure customer data, company data centres.
These changes will start and intellectual property are protected immediately but will take 24 months at all times.
Typically customers would be to implement fully.
forced into costly, disruptive and risky change to make this possible but with Micro Focus, customers can take a different approach that we characterize as bridging the old and the new.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 Executive Chairmans statement continued Current portfolio underpinning the business model with clear execution and investment discipline The typical stages of a product life cycle are from new product introduction through to high growth to broad adoption and maturity, to decline and ultimately obsolescence.
Product life cycle: Industry maturity stages Introduction Growth Maturity Decline Change trajectory Targeted investment Reduce rates of decline Me too models Optimize returns Opportunity Identification New models When considering the investment priorities, both organic and inorganic, we evaluate our options against a set of characteristics mapped to each stage of this adoption cycle enabling the categorization of our product portfolio into one of the four quadrants represented in the chart below.
Portfolio management New Models Growth Drivers Products or consumption models cloud and subscription Products with consistent growth performance and market that open new opportunities, could become growth drivers opportunity to build the future revenue foundations or represent emerging use cases that we need to be able of the Company to embrace Optimize Core Products with declining revenue performance driven by Products that have maintained broadly flat revenue our execution or the market where the trajectory must be performance but represent the current foundations corrected to move back to core or investments focused of the Company and must be protected and extended to optimize long-term returns Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 06 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Micro Focus Our approach to each category is Optimize: as the IT landscape shifts The Micro Focus product portfolio comprises: summarized below: in response to new opportunities or challenges some technologies require repositioning or to be re-focused to COBOL Development and New Models: here our focus is on identify and exploit remaining or new Mainframe Solutions identifying new innovation in the growth potential.
This requires much This portfolio combines the COBOL marketplace that is applicable to our more granular analysis and targeted Development and Mainframe Solutions core and growth driver propositions.
Our model forces this product portfolios from Base Micro This is the case where new innovation discipline.
Inevitably, some technologies Focus with the exception of Rumba, is needed to connect or leverage existing eventually approach end of life as some which has been moved into the Host IT or application assets to deliver returns customers replace them with new Connectivity portfolio.
For the remaining customers of this is Silk Performer Cloudburst: they still represent significant value.
Our Host Connectivity a cloud based implementation of our approach is to continue to offer flexible We have combined TAGs Attachmate highly successful on premise Silk commercial and support models to product portfolio and Rumba from Performer product.
This combination enable customer access to the intellectual Base Micro Focus to target the Host enables customers to execute a hybrid property and capabilities of these Connectivity solutions area.
on premise cloud solution ensuring technologies for extended periods, day-to-day operations are handled again ensuring protection of customer Identity Access and Security IAS effectively on premise but offering broadly investment for as long as possible This is a subset of the NetIQ product unlimited additional capacity as and when technically and commercially.
portfolio addressing Identity Access needed to support business operational Management and Security Management.
peaks, underpinned by the flexibility Within this overall portfolio we have some and ease of use of a common solution products that are growing significantly and Development and IT Operations in both cases.
In SUSE our investments others that are stable or in decline.
Our Management Tools in OpenStack Cloud Infrastructure and business model means the way we manage Here we have combined the Borland and Software-defined Distributed Storage the portfolio is analogous to a fund of Niche portfolios from Base Micro Focus, are also clear examples.
funds with an objective to generate the balance of the NetIQ portfolio not moderate growth over the medium-term, incorporated into IAS and the Zenworks Growth Drivers and Core: this represents delivering high levels of profitability and Endpoint Management software from the majority of our revenue and strong cash-generation and cash-conversion the Novell product portfolio.
We look to identify ratio with a balanced portfolio approach.
critical technologies that have delivered We will continue to focus investment in Collaboration and Networking significant value for customers and growth and core products and will not This portfolio has the balance of the where the costs and risks of replacement dispose of declining products unless we can Novell product portfolio together or re-write are high and the returns achieve greater than the discounted cash with the CORBA portfolio from Base from such activities are questionable.
flow they would generate in our ownership.
We determine how to enable these technologies for the latest IT innovations During the year ended 30 April 2015 and SUSE whether new operating environments following the completion of the acquisition SUSE, a pioneer in Linux and Open Source such as Linux, OpenStack, JAVA or.
NET of TAG, the Base Micro Focus business software, provides reliable, interoperable or new use cases such as the cloud or and the TAG business continued to operate Linux and cloud infrastructure solutions mobile.
For example, Visual COBOL independently.
This was to ensure we that help enterprises increase agility, enables customers to take COBOL minimized as much as possible any manage complexity, and reduce cost.
applications forward with confidence distraction from delivery by each business With a portfolio centered on SUSE Linux into the next phase of IT industry of the expectations for their respective Enterprise and SUSE OpenStack Cloud, innovation, specifically cloud and mobile, financial years.
This meant that the SUSE products power thousands of whilst protecting their investments in product portfolios operated by each organizations around the world across business logic and data built up through business continued throughout the period.
physical, virtual and cloud environments.
Security is a major For Base Micro Focus these were COBOL focus area for customers as they seek Development, Mainframe Solutions, to balance being open and accessible CORBA, Borland and Niche, whilst for to their customers with the need to TAG these were Attachmate, Novell, NetIQ protect confidential data and intellectual and SUSE.
Following the Integration review property.
Through our suite of identity, and as we enter the new financial year, our access and security solutions we offer overall portfolio is managed and run in the industry leading capabilities to help two product portfolios: Micro Focus and customers find this balance.
These SUSE, the latter respecting the different capabilities span multiple portfolios characteristics of the Open Source market.
and significant opportunities for leverage and cross portfolio synergies exist.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07 Executive Chairmans statement continued Companies need to embrace this change The SUSE product portfolio comprises: In addition to strengthening and developing in a way that protects their most prized our strong franchises across the product assets their intellectual property: their SUSE Linux Enterprise Server Products portfolio, we are uniquely positioned to business logic: and their business data.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server products help customers solve key challenges as they enable clients to reliably and securely seek to be more effective, more competitive Micro Focus offers customers the ability run mission-critical applications on and more efficient.
Decades of technology to do exactly that to bridge the old and physical, virtual and cloud platforms, innovation has opened up tremendous the new meaning that companies can offering extensive support for IBM opportunities for companies in almost every exploit the latest innovations in technology System z and Power systems: SAP market but typically this has resulted in very complex IT environments.
Most organizations and develop new competitive capabilities, applications: and High Performance operate infrastructure and applications which with the maximum leverage of their Computing environments.
have emerged over time, often years apart, previous investments.
Our technology such that core legacy platforms sit alongside optimizes how business applications SUSE Linux Enterprise Extensions distributed systems, which more recently and infrastructure components are built, SUSE Linux Enterprise Extensions have been extended further again with tested, deployed and secured, helping our satisfy customers needs with real-time web, cloud and mobile technologies.
customers to achieve the optimum balance performance and high availability of speed, flexibility and risk that fits the service delivery, in addition to enabling This is set to continue as todays current and future needs of their business.
customers to deploy physical and virtual business environment is characterized Linux clusters between data centers by unprecedented levels of change.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Management and Cloud Adjusted Diluted earnings per share and dividend per share in cents SUSE Linux Enterprise Management and c Cloud products offer compatibility with a 140 129.43 broad ecosystem of over 20 public cloud providers, enabling clients to deploy, maintain and manage their servers and 120 OpenStack powered cloud infrastructure with the maximum flexibility.
97.48 100 SUSE OpenStack Cloud 84.87 SUSE OpenStack Cloud is an enterprise OpenStack distribution that rapidly 80 70.93 deploys and easily manages highly available, mixed-hypervisor 56.07  IaaS clouds.
60 53.81 48.40 44.00 SUSE Enterprise Storage 40.32 40.00 SUSE Enterprise Storage is a software 40 31.60 31.27 based, scalable and resilient storage 23.72 23.40 21.80 solution powered by Ceph technology 16.00 which enables organizations to build 20 14.23 13.00 10.00 cost-effective and highly scalable storage 6.00 using commodity off-the-shelf servers and disk drives.
0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop CAGR FY2006 to FY2015 SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop Adjusted Diluted EPS 27.8% provides an Open Source alternative Dividend per Share 26.1% to traditional enterprise desktop operating system environments.
Our core objective is to deliver consistent shareholder returns of 15% to 20% over the long-term.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The underlying premise behind Micro Focus Excluding the TAG revenues, Base Micro Our performance in the year business strategy is that the Company Focus delivered revenues of $418.5m Due to the significant size of the TAG should consistently and over the long-term 2014: $433.1m which is in line with the acquisition the directors believe that the deliver shareholder returns of at least 15% CCY revenue for the comparable period years results are better understood by to 20% per annum.
To deliver this objective of $418.1m.
Licence revenues declined by looking at the full year pro-forma basis of the Company has adopted an operational 5.0% to $162.8m 2014: CCY $171.3m, the combination of TAG and Base Micro and financial strategy underpinned by Maintenance revenues increased by 3.3% Focus.
In the prospectus issued as part of the consistent and effective management and to $243.2m 2014: CCY $235.5m and transaction Audited information under IFRS reward systems.
This strategy is capable Consultancy revenues increased by 10.6% was provided for TAG on a consolidated basis of execution over the long-term and has to $12.5m 2014: CCY $11.3m.
When for the three years and one month ended comparing revenues on a like for like basis resulted this year in significant scaling of 30April 2014.
The post-acquisition period we also exclude both prior year as well as the business which could be repeated of TAG from 20 November 2014 to 30 April current year acquisitions.
In the year ended should appropriate opportunities arise.
2015 has also been audited under IFRS 30 April 2015, we delivered like for like as part of this years audit.
In arriving revenues of $404.9m which is a decline The Company was listed on the London at pro-forma results for the year ended of 1.7% 2014: CCY $412.0m.
On a like Stock Exchange on 12 May 2005 at a 30 April 2015 the directors have combined for like basis, Licence revenues declined price of 130 pence and in the year ended the audited financials for TAG for the post by 5.2% to $160.1m 2014: CCY $168.9m, 30 April 2006 Diluted Adjusted EPS was acquisition period to 31 March 2015 together Maintenance revenues increased by 0.3% 14.23 cents and total dividends for the year with unaudited internal management to $232.7m 2014: CCY $232.0m and of 6 cents per share were declared.
In the information for TAG for the period from Consultancy revenues were up by 9.0% year ended 30 April 2015 Diluted Adjusted 1April 2014 to 19 November 2014 and then to $12.1m 2014: CCY $11.1m.
EPS is 129.43 cents and proposed full year added in the Base Micro Focus results for the dividend is 48.4 cents representing a year ended 30 April 2015.
The comparatives Excluding revenues from the TAG compound annual growth rate of 27.8% for the full year pro-forma for the year ended acquisition, our International region and 26.1% respectively.
30 April 2014 combine the audited financials increased revenues by 1.3% to $168.5m for TAG derived from the prospectus for 2014: CCY $166.4m, North America Full year dividends on our shares since the the year to 31 March 2014 with the audited revenues increased by 1.1% to $201.4m IPO have totaled 135.2 pence and since figures for Base Micro Focus for the year 2014: CCY $199.3m and in Asia Pacific January 2012 we have made four Returns ended 30 April 2014. and Japan region, revenues declined by of Value totaling 215 pence per share.
On 30 April 2015 our share price had The year ended 30 April 2015 has been a increased to 1,257 pence.
A shareholder transformational year for Micro Focus and TAG delivered actual revenues in the period who invested at the time of the IPO and management believes that the completion of $416.0m comprising Licence revenues had reinvested the Returns of Value would of the acquisition of TAG was by far the of $98.2m, Maintenance revenues of have grown their investment by 971% which most important event of the year.
At the $197.4m, Subscription revenues of $98.2m is a compound annual return of 26.84%.
time of the interim results in December 2014 and Consultancy revenues of $22.2m.
management provided guidance for the We identified as part of the review of the On 28 March 2011, on the back of two pro-forma financial performance for the business that Consultancy revenues had profit warnings and poor performance in Enlarged Group of c. $1,330m of revenue historically contained two items that the year ended 30 April 2011, the Company and c. $500m of Underlying Adjusted should be classified elsewhere.
Premium announced a share buy-back program.
These pro-forma numbers were a Services revenues relates to the provision closing share price on 25 March 2011, the combination of the forecasted performance of onsite support engineers and in our day before the announcement, was 308.6 of TAG for the year ending 31 March 2015 view has characteristics of Maintenance pence and the dividends received since IPO and Base Micro Focus for the year ending or Subscription revenues as it is more of at that time was 43.56 pence.
The annual 30April 2015 using actual results for the a recurring nature.
Secondly, TAG previously rate of return for the shareholder from IPO first six months of those years and forecast recognized expenses reimbursement to 25 March 2011 was 18.5% per annum.
performance for the second half of those as revenue rather than a cost recovery.
The Companys market capitalization on that years based on the revenue and costs We have reclassified $18.4m of Premium date was 635.0m and by 30 April 2015 this currency mix experienced in the first half and Services revenue from Consultancy into had increased to 2,730.8m.
The Company the prevailing foreign exchange rates at the Maintenance $13.2m and Subscription made cash returns to shareholders during time.
On this CCY basis, the Enlarged Group $5.2m and $0.8m of expense this period of 554.5m, consisting of share delivered revenues and Underlying Adjusted reimbursement from Consultancy revenue buy-backs of 65.0m, ordinary dividends of EBITDA of $1,352.5m and $513.6m which is to a reduction in costs.
We believe that 149.8m and Returns of Value of 339.6m.
comfortably in line with the guidance.
On an this gives a firmer basis for performance These cash returns represent 87.3% of the actual reported basis the Group delivered comparisons going forward.
market capitalization of the Company on total revenues of $834.5m 2014: $433.1m 25 March 2011 and the annual compound as TAG revenues of $416.0m only reflect the return for shareholders from that date to trading in the period from completion on 30 April 2015 is 43.3% per annum.
Micro Focus intends to remain a high growth company in terms of returns to shareholders.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09 Executive Chairmans statement continued Operating costs on a CCY basis before As this part period 20 November 2014 to to 30 April 2015 to $221.5m 2014: $199.9m exceptional items, share-based payments 30 April 2015 has no comparator we have with Subscription up 10.4% to $217.1m 2014: $196.6m and Consultancy up 33.3% and amortization of purchased intangibles based much of the following commentary at $4.4m 2014: $3.3m.
The Subscription Adjusted Operating Costs increased by on full year pro-forma to enable a better revenue is net of the deferred revenue fair 102.8% to $486.8m 2014: CCY $240.0m.
understanding of what is happening in the value adjustment of $5.4m.
Prior to this The increase of $246.8m is more than business.
In order to provide a comparison adjustment, Subscription revenues grew accounted for by the $281.5m from the of full year performance, using the by 13.2% and overall revenues grew by current year acquisition.
prospectus financial information and the 13.5%.
We are increasing the investment results for the year we have produced in the SUSE Portfolio during FY2016.
The reduction in the Base Micro Focus costs performance for TAG for the 12 months of $33.7m consists mostly of: to April 2015 and comparable performance The other three product portfolios of TAG to 30 April 2014 on an actual basis.
share similar characteristics to the Base $13.4m year on year change in foreign Micro Focus Product Portfolios in that they exchange credit of $9.0m compared If TAG had been owned for the whole of are mature infrastructure software products to a loss of $4.4m in 2014: FY2015 then the total TAG revenue would and we believe that they should be managed have been $902.1m 2014: $951.7m a in future in the same way.
We also believe a reduction of $7.9m arising from decline of 5.2%.
This comprised Licence until changes are made to the way a business investments incurred in FY14 but not revenues of $170.4m 2014: $189.0m which operates, trends in those businesses are repeated in this year, relating to CRM had declined by 9.8%, a decline of 10.2% going to continue.
We introduced our new work, patent filings, restructuring, in Maintenance to $469.1m 2014: $522.6m organization structure from 1 May and it will taxation matters and recruitment an increase in Subscription revenue of take time to settle down due to the amount costs for the sales academy: 10.7% to $217.7m 2014: $196.6m and of change and disruption involved in the Consultancy of $44.9m 2014: $43.5m integration of the two businesses.
$1.3m from lower commissions paid an increase of 3.3%.
These are the actual to third parties on Licence revenue: numbers rather than a CCY comparison.
For the year to 30 April 2015 Attachmate, NetIQ and Novell delivered total revenue recharging $7.6m of management costs The TAG sales incentive structures were of $680.6m 2014: $751.8m, a decline of to TAG for integration and acquisition focused around billings rather than revenue 9.5%.
Licence revenues were down 10.3% related work: and with a drive to generate cash to pay down to $169.6m 2014: $189.0m, Maintenance debt.
Whilst we believe billings on a consistent revenues declined 9.8% to $471.5m and $3.5m spent in the prior year on contract length is a relevant measure in Consultancy revenues were flat at $39.5m acquisition activities.
a subscription based business that is new 2014: $40.2m.
and growing we believe that revenue is a Adjusted Operating Profit for the year much more important measure for mature Attachmate revenues declined by 3.2% to ended 30 April 2015 on a CCY basis infrastructure software products on the $180.3m 2014: $186.3m with Licence revenue increased by 94.2% to $347.8m 2014: right hand side of the product lifecycle curve.
growing by 4.2% to $84.2m 2014: $80.8m, CCY $179.1m, Adjusted EBITDA increased For a number of years TAG had been offering offset by declines in Maintenance of 7.9% to by 96.5% to $360.7m 2014: CCY $183.6m multi-year Maintenance contracts with a $92.1m 2014: $100.0m, and Consultancy and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA increased discount on the second and third years of down 27.3% to $4.0m 2014: $5.5m.
in order to get payment upfront.
This three NetIQ revenues declined by 5.8% to $267.2m year billing would count towards the sales with Licences down 17.0% to $59.0m 2014: Cash generated from operating activities representatives quota for the year and $71.1m, Maintenance down 2.7% at $179.7m increased to $288.7m 2014: $206.8m commission would be paid on the full amount.
2014: 184.6m and Consultancy up 1.4% at representing a cash conversion ratio of Whilst revenue was then recognized at a $28.5m 2014: $28.1m.
110.6% 2014: 107.7% as a proportion flat 7.5% discount over the three year term, of Adjusted EBITDA less exceptional items.
a natural discount and reduction in the go Novell revenues declined to $233.1m forward revenue stream had been introduced.
Licence The average employee headcount during We changed this practice after completion revenues were $26.4m 2014: $37.1m the year ended 30 April 2015 was 2,515 so that no discount was given on future years a reduction of 28.8%, Maintenance 2014: 1,219.
At 30 April 2015 headcount but provided price protection to the customer revenues were down 16.1% to $199.7m was 4,240 2014: 1,227. on multi-year deals for Maintenance so that 2014: $238.0m offset by an increase in future years did not increase.
However, quotes Consultancy revenues of 16.1% to $7.0m.
As announced on 6 April 2015 we went for Maintenance renewals that had already through a process of restructuring the been issued under the previous policy would Management took the necessary steps Enlarged Group for the new financial year, be honoured.
This historic policy will result in to achieve appropriate margins and with the result that approximately 500 of a drag on revenues in FY16 and a working cash-generation through a clear focus on the combined workforce of 4,561 employees capital impact over the next two years.
sound business operations throughout the have or are soon to leave the Group.
All of our actions are consistent with also commenced recruitment in other areas SUSE is seeing growth associated with the the four phase plan set out at the time of of the business for an incremental 150 staff.
early stages of the product lifecycle curve the acquisition and with the objective of and due to the unique characteristics of the returning the Enlarged Business to growth We would like to thank our employees for Linux market and Open Source community in FY18 whilst maintaining all options to their continued dedication, commitment and it will be run as a separate product portfolio.
hard work in delivering the full year results.
Revenues grew by 10.8% in the 12 months Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information For the year ended 30 April 2015 bonuses were paid to non-commissionable staff and Proportion of pro-forma revenue delivered during FY15 by each of the executive management in line with the new portfolios improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA Percentage of on a CCY basis excluding the impact of in pro-forma year acquisitions.
Staff bonuses were paid FY2015 1 at 104% of their on target amount reflecting revenues a 10.4% increase in Underlying Adjusted COBOL development and mainframe solutions 20.4% EBITDA of Base Micro Focus at their budgeted Host connectivity 15.9% exchange rates whilst executive management Identity, access and security 17.0% were capped at 100%.
For TAG employees their Variable Payment Plan for nonDevelopment and IT operations management tools 11.9% commissionable employees was based on Collaboration and networking 18.2% operating profit performance compared with Micro Focus Portfolio 83.4% budget.
At 90% of budget there was 0% pay SUSE Portfolio 16.6% out with 100% pay out at budget operating profit.
The pay-out for the year to 31 March Micro Focus Group 100.0% 2015 was 81.7% which was increased to 88.5% to reflect the 13 month period to 1 Unaudited.
30April and then to 100% to reflect the disruption and increased workload caused by the acquisition.
Following completion optimum balance of cost, risk and speed Micro Focus Product Portfolio of the acquisition, TAG senior management of execution across their mainframe and COBOL Development and Mainframe were on incentive plans related to the revenue distributed computing platforms.
Increasingly Solutions CDMS 20.4% of performance against budgets for either their businesses are seeking to re-use existing pro-forma FY15 revenues area of responsibility or total TAG revenues.
business logic and data, while also looking We have continued to invest in our Pay-outs for TAG senior management varied to exploit new innovations in technology such core COBOL development CD products between zero and 100%.
Our mainframe solutions that primarily target the off-mainframe products enable customers to achieve both distributed development market.
The CD The amount charged to the consolidated of these, through enabling the re-deployment products enable programmers to develop income statement in respect of the of enterprise mainframe applications to and deploy applications written in COBOL Corporate Bonus plan and Variable Payment distributed systems, virtualized mobile across multiple platforms including Plan in the actual results for the year ended platforms, and the cloud.
We estimate that Windows, UNIX and Linux and the cloud.
30 April 2015 was $16.8m and the amounts the mainframe COBOL development market Visual COBOL provides the fastest way for paid to eligible employees in respect of the opportunity is approximately three times as customers to move enterprise mainframe pro-forma results was $36.8m.
All of the large as that for off mainframe distributed application workloads partially or wholly to Groups non-commissionable sales staff COBOL development.
NET or cloud and executive management are on the environments whilst protecting their existing Micro Focus Corporate Bonus Plan for FY16.
Host Connectivity 15.9% of pro-forma investments and intellectual property.
FY15 revenues The Host Connectivity product set is the COBOL applications continue to be at the Our business by product portfolio combination of the Attachmate products heart of the worlds business transactions In the new financial year we are going to from TAG and the Micro Focus Rumba and to power the majority of large be reporting two product portfolios, Micro products.
We believe that this combination organizations key business operations.
The Micro Focus products gives us a number two position in terms of Maintaining our leadership position in have been grouped into portfolios based on market share, behind IBM, in the provision CD is at the core of our value proposition.
industrial logic and will be the basis on which of host connectivity solutions.
We specialize By embedding our products in industry we provide further breakdown.
Over the last in environments with heterogeneous standard development environments four years we have provided significant levels systems or platforms and this product set specifically Visual Studio and Eclipse, we of disclosure of our performance at a level has, in one form or another, assisted in have addressed the perceived skill issues, of granularity which would not be practical these tasks for over 30 years.
and expect that COBOL will provide a stable to maintain going forward considering the base and strong cash flow for the Group increased scale of the Enlarged Group.
We Our products enable IT organizations using over the coming decades.
remain open in our approach to investors centralized applications to provide businessand analysts in telling it how it is and will critical information to the end-user of the Our Mainframe Solutions MS product set seek to provide clarity on the key dynamics system while modernizing the functionality addresses a customers need to get the most within each portfolio.
and access to the information which can be value out of their mainframe environment.
held across a broad array of new and legacy These technologies allow customers the By definition this is a level of simplification systems.
In addition to secure and highly choice of where they develop, test and as Micro Focus is a broad portfolio of available host-system access from multiple deploy their business applications.
Certain products and not a single product business device types, the customer value proposition circumstances mean this would be best to do with a single set of drivers.
centers on user productivity: and the ability either within the mainframe environment or to extend modern and secure user access outside of it on distributed Windows, UNIX The table above provides the proportion to legacy systems on the mobile device and Linux machines.
We offer customers the of pro-forma revenue delivered during technologies that continue to emerge.
choice to do either or both, enabling the FY15 by each of the new portfolios.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Executive Chairmans statement continued employee and keep it updated remotely At the core of the product set are the are well suited to address these issues, using a unified management console.
Reflection and Rumba product families using unique identity-powered security technologies to optimize the balance These tools enable all devices to be patched, that deliver rich, precise graphical user between innovation and risk.
compliant, secure and properly equipped.
interfaces GUIs for legacy host applications Due to the multifarious and complex nature to many thousands of customers.
Development and IT Operations of the user and system endpoints within Management Tools 11.9% of todays large organizations, this can be The host connectivity capabilities are pro-forma FY15 revenues a burdensome and costly undertaking, extended by other products that provide This product set is the combination of the and accordingly the toolset is both broad advanced data integration technologies, Borland products from Base Micro Focus: and deep.
The capabilities include service enabling third party business intelligence the balance of the NetIQ products not desk: application virtualization: asset technologies to drive critical business incorporated into IAS: and the Zenworks management: configuration management: analytics systems.
There are additional endpoint management software from software distribution: full disk encryption: managed file transfer solutions providing a the Novell product set.
mobile device management: and range of tactical and strategic solutions for patch management.
securely transferring files of any size enabling The Borland software development tools businesses to work seamlessly with partners enable companies to optimize the end Collaboration and Networking 18.2% and customers across any platform or device.
to end supply chain process of delivering of pro-forma FY15 revenues software, from definition requirements This product set has the balance of the Identity Access and Security IAS capture through to quality testing and Novell products together with CORBA 17.0% of pro-forma FY15 revenues change management.
These tools enable from Base Micro Focus.
This product set offers broad, proven companies to better align their software solutions for identity and access development and testing activities, and Our collaboration products enable management, and security.
The IAS for that alignment to extend outside the organizations to be more productive in products enable customers to manage, Company to suppliers and partners.
We work environments that are more secure secure and measure the critical elements provide solutions for both practitioners and easier to manage, regardless of how or of a business IT infrastructure, solving who want to work together more effectively, where people work.
The products support customers needs in delivering application and IT decision makers who need to manage thousands of organizations around the world access across hugely complex and diverse change in their business that they often to help enable work forces in the office and platform and device configurations.
These capabilities provide on the go.
Product features include email, the foundation for accelerated delivery of calendaring, contact management and task Our Identity and Access Management IAM software projects and are leveraged by management: team workspaces with products enable simple, secure access for companies seeking competitive advantage, document management, workflows, and the right people at the right time by using improved customer satisfaction, and social streams: and mobile access.
Secure integrated identity information to create, optimized operational efficiency.
team collaboration including document modify, and retire identities and control management and workflow features, often their access to enterprise, cloud and mobile We offer a very broad suite of tools for IT used to replace existing intranet systems, resources.
Key features include identity Operations Management ITOM to enable offers customer a fully integrated collaboration management, access management, single always-available business services, enterprise environment.
This fits closely with additional sign-on, access governance, identity applications and IT systems.
The primary products that offer file, print, and networking tracking and active directory administration.
value propositions of our ITOM tools services designed to enable organizations incorporate data center management: to control and automate file storage, simplify Additionally, these technologies have strong integrated service management, application network management, enable users to install integration with our Security products, management and systems management: printers easily and automate disaster recovery which provide powerful security intelligence application performance management: and of key business systems.
Our tools provide solutions provide visibility and control of organizations with an invaluable holistic view The products can automate the user activities, security events, and critical of their IT environment and business services, configuration and management of high systems across the organization to help enabling companies to manage increased availability collaboration and networking reduce the risk of a data breach and keep complexity and capacity with the right servers, that are simple to resource systems compliant.
balance of cost, risk and speed of execution.
The end-user value proposition includes dynamic file services Key trends driving growth in this The ITOM product set offers end-to-end which automates policies data storage: file area include virtualization and cloud enterprise disaster recovery capabilities, access: file reporting: mobile access and: development as companies rely on more including an all-in-one disaster recovery online, offline and mobile print.
virtual platforms for more complex and hardware appliance, supported by  processes, as well as demand platform disaster recovery software, which Fully distributed networking services for more complex software to both manage protects both physical and virtual workloads.
such as centralized server management: the virtual server environment and protect The tools also enable organizations to plan secure file storage: and storage information and systems.
Additionally, and execute anywhere-to-anywhere server management, provide full enterprise as businesses seek improvements to their workload migrations.
distributed networking environment competitive advantage and customer suitable for small workgroups, right satisfaction by pushing more information Additionally, the ITOM tools include endpoint through to global enterprise deployments.
to their front-line services, new risks and management products that enable IT staff to threats arise to their business data and give the proper working environment to each intellectual property.
Our IAS solutions Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 12 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information This product set also includes the CORBA The core SLES products are extended We have combined the geographic Base based network and data transport products with further product offerings that Micro Focus Go to Market organization provide real-time, high availability and which provide unrivalled functionality and and the Business Unit based TAG Go to geo-clustering client needs, including performance to companies with a requirement Market organization into one geographically features which reduce unplanned and for high speed, and secure transfer of data focused teams covering the Micro Focus planned downtime: prevent regional between systems on their multi-platform and SUSE portfolios.
This has meant disasters from interrupting clients mission networks.
This technology is deployed across realignment of structure, sales territories critical workloads: run time-sensitive thousands of customers supporting more and compensation plans.
We believe this applications reliably and predictably: boost than a billion transactions per day.
will enable us to better serve our customers virtual workload performance: and enable in the future but anticipate that the degree administrators to quickly and easily monitor SUSE Product Portfolio 16.6% of of change will mean that it will take some system health and performance.
pro-forma FY15 revenues time for the new organization to settle Established in 1992, SUSE is the original down.
However, we believe that this SUSEs systems management and cloud provider of the first enterprise Linux change will provide significant extra depth products are compatible with a broad distribution and the most interoperable in management in North America where ecosystem of over 20 public cloud providers, platform for mission-critical computing.
Base Micro Focus has struggled with erratic enabling clients to deploy, maintain and Linux is an Open Source the practice of performance in the past.
manage their servers on premise in enterprise making software source code freely available datacenters or OpenStack powered cloud in the public domain to software engineers At the same time we will move from five infrastructure.
These products offer improved for modification or distribution operating CRM systems to one which will provide usability, provisioning, power management, system and has been an increasingly fast operational efficiencies going forward IT compliance and security features.
growing sub-segment of the enterprise but will mean that in the short-term less operating system market.
The growing historical data will be available than was acceptance of Linux in large-scale systems the case in Base Micro Focus prior to Operational strategy to deliver means that it is increasingly used in the acquisition.
our core objective mission-critical systems, cloud and data Operational excellence center infrastructure and major independent We believe that we have significant room Micro Focus has set out to be the most hardware vendors such as IBM, or component for improvement in sales productivity and effective Company at managing a portfolio manufacturers such as Intel, have made will look to achieve an appropriate balance of mature infrastructure software assets.
This a firm long-term commitment to growing between direct and indirect channels.
shows through in our industry leading EBITDA Linux as an enterprise platform.
Linux margins and our strong cash conversion.
adoption in enterprise is also being driven We aim to increase sales productivity We believe that our proven ability to execute by high performance computing and and predictability further by continuing not only delivers significant amounts of cash so-called Big Data Analytics.
to improve customer insight by generating and consequently great flexibility, but also a closer interaction between Sales and competitive advantage in the acquisition of With a product set centered on SUSE Linux Marketing, Product Management and other similar assets as demonstrated this year.
Enterprise and SUSE OpenStack Cloud, SUSE Product Development.
We also have products power thousands of organizations significant work to do to make our systems The aims of our portfolio focus and around the world across physical, virtual and and processes consistent and easier for operational strategy are: cloud environments.
SUSE server products our sales teams and partners to use.
enable clients to reliably and securely run 1.
Revenue growth: mission-critical applications anywhere: We have announced that we will be physical, virtual and cloud.
The core of the simplifying our branding with an objective 2.
Operating leverage: and product set is the SUSE Linux Enterprise Server that by the end of FY16 we will be using SLES which is a highly reliable, scalable and the Micro Focus and SUSE brands and will 3.
secure Linux server operating system, built to have retired the Novell, Attachmate, NetIQ power both physical and virtual mission-critical and Borland brand names.
This means an Our key areas of operational focus in order to workloads.
With this foundation, enterprises extensive program of work to align our deliver single digit revenue growth to achieve can deliver reliable business services, enable marketing programs in order to raise brand our core objective are Go to Market including secure networks and manage heterogeneous awareness, build understanding of our indirect channels, Product Development and IT resources.
SLES was the first enterprise product propositions and increasingly target Financial Discipline in M&A.
Linux operating system available on the IBM the right audiences to generate qualified System z mainframe, and we estimate that leads for new business opportunities.
Go to Market sales enablement, more than 50% of all current mainframe marketing and sales productivity Linux is SLES for System z.
For the global SAP During 2013 and 2014 we made good application market, SLES for SAP Applications progress on our product strategy, direction is the only operating system optimized for all and underlying roadmap and started to adjust mission-critical SAP software solutions, and our Go to Market structures including our is recommended by SAP as a preferred Linux channel strategy, marketing and lead platform, and in addition there is a high generation execution capability.
This work has performance computing version of the SLES now been leveraged in the planning for the product for those customers looking to solve new enlarged business.
In some cases Base the most demanding computational and Micro Focus analysis has had to be reworked data-intensive problems.
in consideration of the larger portfolio.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Executive Chairmans statement continued Industry and market dynamics mean that The normal stock plan starts to vest at EPS Product development there are significant numbers of potential annual growth over the performance period For the Micro Focus portfolio we have assets that could fit with our business model.
of RPI plus 3%, with maximum vesting at organized Product Development and These are either: RPI plus 9%.
With RPI per annum over the Product Management into one global three years of approximately 2.15% and function bringing together the Micro Focus i bolt-on transactions like those completed dividends approximately 2% to 3% this and TAG organizations.
To maximize returns in FY13 and FY14: means that full vesting is aligned to the we have conducted an analysis of all our overall objective of 15% to 20% returns.
products in terms of their life cycle and ii significant transactions: or portfolio management position.
We continue Key performance indicators to check that to invest in product development and are iii tr ansformational deals such as the we are on track are Underlying Adjusted excited by both the significant enhancements acquisition of TAG.
EBITDA absolute amount and growth %, to existing products and the new products cash conversion absolute amount and released in the past year.
Micro Focus will Each year the world of IT gets a year older conversion % and earnings per share.
maintain its leadership positions in CD and and we should remember that IT is still a Mainframe Solutions through products such relatively young industry and whilst the vast as Visual COBAL and Enterprise Developer.
In Delivering value to shareholders majority of companies will focus on the new Host Connectivity we will seek to build on our The board has adopted a very clear plan of and exciting: we believe that there will be an existing strengths in terms of technology and value creation.
increasing opportunity to help clients derive customer base to establish a true leadership value from their existing and often highly position.
In ITOM and Collaboration and Our priority is to improve the business complex IT investments.
Networking the strength of our existing in order to maximize the opportunity to franchises can be built upon through targeted generate modest revenue growth in the Since the completion of the acquisition of innovation and customer engagement.
At the same time we have TAG the Company has received a number of By sharpening our focus in IAS we are well created flexibility to allow value creation approaches from owners of companies who positioned for growth over the longer term to shareholders through cash distributions would be interested in becoming part of the and in SUSE we already lead in many areas or acquisitions as appropriate.
and our technology heritage combined with nothing that will constrain our ability to our existing and new offerings position us achieve organic growth and we are currently well for combined success.
Linkage of management investing significant amounts on activities designed to enhance growth.
incentive to shareholder returns Product Development and Product Micro Focus has deployed a simple model Management is managed separately for The type of transformation we are to link management incentives to the each of the Micro Focus and SUSE portfolios undertaking is the sort that many delivery of shareholder returns.
This model to ensure the correct focus and to reflect companies have said they need to go private has worked successfully in motivating the collaborative nature of the Open Source to achieve out of the public eye.
The board management to deliver exceptional returns community.
We will continue to work with and management of Micro Focus believe to shareholders and is well understood our partners, independent software vendors that it is quite possible to do this on the and supported by our investment and customers to ensure that they can reap public market and provide the increase manager population.
the benefits of our investments and in value to existing shareholders.
The annual cash bonus applies to all In December 2014 we made a Return members of staff excluding those on sales of Value to all shareholders amounting Financial discipline, mergers incentives.
If the Companys Underlying to $131.6m in cash 60.0 pence per share, Adjusted EBITDA is no greater than the prior and acquisitions M&A equivalent to approximately 94.02 cents years CCY comparative there is no bonus.
Micro Focus has a strong financial discipline per share, by way of a B C share scheme, The bonus for executive directors and around the uses of cash.
The Company has which gave shareholders other than certain executive committee members is maximized a base case model that estimates the returns overseas shareholders a choice between on achieving 10% growth over the prior year to shareholders from organic execution and receiving the cash in the form of income CCY Underlying Adjusted EBITDA with a the return of excess cash.
This gives a sound or capital.
straight line between the two points and basis on which to evaluate M&A where any for other staff there is no maximum.
The acquisition contemplated would need to For existing ordinary shares validly elected staff neither benefit nor lose from elements generate a risk adjusted return greater than to the income option, a Shareholder received outside of their control such as exchange the base case.
Successful execution of M&A one C Share for each corresponding existing rates with the board taking a view that these has been instrumental in achieving an annual ordinary share held at the Record time.
items balance out over the business cycle.
compound return of 26.8% since IPO A C Share Dividend of 60.0 pence per share compared to a base case target of 15% to became payable in respect of each such The board sees no value in bonuses being 20%.
The acquisition of TAG demonstrates C Share.
Once the C Share Dividend was based on soft or non-financial measures this strong discipline and the returns that paid, each relevant C Share was reclassified as evidence would suggest that these tend are achievable.
as a Deferred Share having negligible value to serve to increase bonuses to levels not and carrying extremely limited rights.
The merited by financial performance.
Such Company then repurchased the Deferred targets are best achieved by executives Shares for an aggregate consideration managing and having appropriate of 1.0pence and then cancelled the management and control systems in place.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information For existing ordinary shares validly elected In line with our dividend policy, which is to In January 2015, Karen Geary was appointed to the capital option, a Shareholder received be progressive until such time as our debt a non-executive director.
Karen has more is down to 2.5 times Facility EBITDA we are one B Share for each corresponding existing than 20 years of international Human announcing an increase in the proposed final ordinary share held at the Record time.
Each Resources and business transformation dividend of 10% to 33.0 cents per share, B Share was redeemed for 60.0 pence.
experience across a variety of industries, 2014: 30.0 cents per share and an increase managing organizations through periods in the proposed total dividend for the year of The Return of Value was accompanied by of large scale change, acquisition and 10% to 48.4 cents per share 2014: 44.0 cents a 0.9285 share consolidation to maintain integration and is Chief People Officer per share.
The final dividend will be paid in broad comparability of the share price and at WANdisco plc.
Sterling equivalent to 21.2 pence per share, return per share of the ordinary shares before based on an exchange rate of $1.56, being and after the creation of the B C Shares.
We welcome the new members of our board.
the rate applicable on 7 July 2015, the date on which the board resolved to propose the The board is targeting a net debt to Facility Outlook final dividend.
The final dividend will be EBITDA multiple of approximately 2.5 times.
During FY16 in accordance with our four proposed to shareholders at the AGM on This is a modest level of gearing for a phase plan, we intend to reduce revenues 24September 2015 and, if approved, will be company with the cash generating qualities to a solid core from which we aim to grow paid on 2 October 2015 to shareholders on of Micro Focus.
We are confident that this in FY18.
As a result we anticipate revenues the register at 4 September 2015. level of debt would not reduce our ability in the year declining between 2% and to deliver growth, invest in products and or 4% on a CCY basis.
Given the extent Following completion of the integration make appropriate acquisitions.
As the and level of change from the restructuring review and given the strong trading and integration of the businesses continues already being implemented we expect the outlook for the Company the Independent the board will keep the appropriate level performance to be stronger in the second Board has released Wizard Parent LLC of debt under review.
Wizard, the former owner of TAG, from the restriction under the Relationship In order to complete the acquisition the We believe we have a strong operational Agreement from them trading their Company put in place a debt structure and financial model that can continue to ordinary shares during the 365 day which balances stability, flexibility and cost provide excellent returns to shareholders.
The total new credit facility of The model requires low single digit revenue $2,000.0m comprised of a $1,275.0m seven growth in the medium-term and we are year term loan B, a $500.0m five year term Board changes confident that this can be delivered.
The During the year there were a number terms of the New Facilities were as follows: of board changes.
After 10 years of approximately 27% compound returns to investors we believe a in relation to the senior secured term loan At the AGM in September 2014, David that Micro Focus is now well positioned B of $1,275.0m: an interest rate of 4.25% Maloney retired from the board after serving for the next phase in its evolution.
above LIBOR subject to a LIBOR floor of as a non-executive director since the IPO 1.00%, amortizing at 1.00% per annum, in 2005.
David was Chairman of the Audit with an original issue discount of 1.00% Committee throughout this period and was and a seven year term: senior independent director and Deputy Chairman when he retired.
We would like Kevin Loosemore b in relation to the senior secured term loan to thank David for his years of service and Executive Chairman C of $500.0m: an interest rate of 3.75% contribution to the success of Micro Focus.
7 July 2015 above LIBOR subject to a LIBOR floor Richard Atkins became Chairman of the of 0.75%, amortizing at 10.00% per Audit Committee and Karen Slatford became annum, with an original issue discount the senior independent director.
of 1.50% and a five year term: and On completion of the transaction we c in relation to the senior secured revolving welcomed Prescott Ashe and David Golob credit facility of $225.0m: an initial interest as non-executive directors representing rate of 3.50% above LIBOR, and an Wizard.
Prescott previously served as original issue discount of 0.50%.
a non-executive director of Micro Focus from IPO until 8 September 2008 and At completion we drew down all of the term is a Managing Director of Golden Gate loans and $100.0m of the revolving facility Capital whilst David is a partner of Francisco such that our gross debt was $1,875.0m.
In order to assist with the balance Post completion we have repaid $150.0m of independent and non-independent of the term loan B ahead of the scheduled directors Stephen Murdoch, Chief Operating repayment and $25.0m of the revolving Officer of Micro Focus, stepped down from facility so that at 30 April 2015 we had the board whilst remaining as a senior gross debt of $1,700.0m and net debt employee within the Group.
This represented a net debt to pro-forma Facility EBITDA of 2.6 times.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15
