ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Chairmans Introduction environment in Brazil, in particular, continues to impact our growth 2015 Performance rates with negative growth in constant currency of 23% in 2015.
This was another year of continued growth for the Group.
In In the fourth quarter, we also saw trading conditions deteriorate 2015 we have seen outstanding performances in some of our in a number of our markets, particularly the UK, Asia Pacific, and businesses such as North America which grew 18% in constant the Middle East.
Although it was pleasing to see continued strong currencies and Southern Europe which grew over 28%.
In total, performances in Europe, our largest region, North America and 20 countries achieved growth rates of over 10% with 17 countries Latin America excluding Brazil.
including the US, Greater China and Japan having record years.
We continue to invest in and see encouraging growth from our Gross profit in 2015 was 556.1m, an increase of 9.3% in five Large High-Potential Markets, namely the US, Germany, constant currencies and 4.4% in reported rates.
Operating profit South East Asia, Greater China and Latin America.
In 2015, grew 20% in constant currencies and basic EPS rose over 10%.
collectively they grew 9% in constant currency in the year and However, the performance of Brazil and Australia was once again now represent 31% of Group gross profit.
impacted by difficult trading conditions.
The macroeconomic David Lowden Another year of positive Chairman growth and development across the Group Although we have achieved strong double digit growth in constant currency in regions such as North America and Europe, foreign exchange continues to impact our reported results, with gross profit 26m lower and operating profit 4m lower due to the impact of foreign exchange rates.
We have continued to increase headcount, not only in our large high potential markets, but also those regions where market conditions support investment.
As a consequence, we finished the year with 4,484 fee earners, a record for the Group.
We also finished the year with a record fee earner to support staff ratio of 77:23, reflecting our continued focus on the cost base.
We have made good progress towards implementing a European Shared Service Centre.
As well as improving quality and consistency, through improved operational efficiency, it is anticipated that this will lead to cost savings in 2017 and beyond.
The implementation of the European Shared Service Centre is an important step towards achieving our new operational to support staff target ratio of 80:20.
The PageGroup leadership team also continues to make progress on the strategic priorities.
Expanding the Property & Construction disciplines into countries such as the USA and Switzerland, and Sales into Japan and Malaysia, enables us to grow our market presence.
During 2015, we have also continued to roll-out our new Page Recruiting System PRS, and as at the end of 3 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 December 2015, around 85% of our fee earners were on the new Board system.
Initial feedback has been very positive, with consultants At the end of 2015, the previous Chairman, Robin Buchanan, benefiting from the enhanced speed and functionality of the new decided to step down, having served on the Board since August system.
Each PRS roll-out also sees the introduction of our next 2011.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his generation website to that country, one part of our approach to leadership and his many contributions to the success of our ongoing candidate acquisition.
LinkedIn is another significant company.
channel for us to acquire candidates and clients.
We are therefore very proud that LinkedIn named PageGroup as globally the Most Following Robins departure, I was appointed Chairman of Socially Engaged Recruiter in 2015.
PageGroup and Chairman of the Nomination Committee with effect from 31 December 2015 and Danuta Gray was appointed One of the key factors of our continued success is the retention of Chair of the Remuneration Committee also with effect from our talented people.
It is therefore pleasing that the work we have 31 December 2015. undertaken on our Employee Value Proposition has once again improved retention rates and increased management mobility.
The In August this year we also welcomed Patrick fide Smedt onto the importance of the willingness of our staff to move to the business Board.
Patrick is an experienced Non-Executive Director who where they can add most value cannot be underestimated and has built an international business career in multiple countries.
He their continued dedication is greatly appreciated.
This focus has deep experience in leading people, and brings considerable on staff retention, mobility and development has enabled us to knowledge of the importance of social media and information improve productivity in constant currency and conversion rates.
technology to a business like ours.
We took the very difficult decision in 2015 to close our Russian Your Board remains diligent in both supporting and challenging business.
Every one of our businesses must have the ability to the executive teams strategy recommendations and their achieve a minimum conversion rate of 30%.
Having reviewed the responses to changing market conditions.
Full details of the work Russian market, we did not believe this was achievable in the of the Board and subjects discussed in the year are set out in the short or medium-term.
For information on Board priorities please see page 59.
Continued focus on our highest potential markets, the roll-out of new disciplines, increasing headcount where market conditions Board members have considerable experience of working support investment and investment in the skills of our people internationally in different parts of the world.
Indeed, the Board will enable us to achieve longer term growth and deliver robust has a good mix of relevant skills, experience, gender and shareholder returns.
This diversity is of great benefit to the business.
Dividend Strategic Report In 2015 we returned 50m to shareholders by means of a special This report sets out PageGroups strategic vision and how we dividend, the first time we have returned cash in this way.
The address the various markets and the opportunities before us.
Groups first use of cash remains to satisfy operational and We have highlighted areas which are critical to achieving this investment requirements, as well as hedging its liabilities under vision, such as our Employee Value Proposition shown on page the Groups share plans.
Our second use of cash is to make 25.
The report also details our approach to corporate and social returns to shareholders by way of an ordinary dividend.
Cash responsibility, including how we engage with our stakeholders.
generated in excess of these first two priorities will be returned to shareholders through supplementary returns, using special Looking Ahead dividends and or share buybacks.
Historically, the Group has returned cash to shareholders through share buybacks and The investment in the PRS system and additional headcount in cancelling the shares.
Over the 14 years since flotation, the Group our growth markets in 2015 will enable us to continue to build has returned over 275m by share buybacks and cancelled profitable growth in 2016.
However, while the global outlook around 30% of its issued share capital.
This is on top of almost remains mixed, we will continue to increase our investment in 300m of ordinary dividend payments during the same period.
growing markets and actively manage our exposure in those markets which remain challenging.
Our ordinary dividend policy is to grow the dividend over the course of the economic cycle in line with our long-term growth Last, but by no means least, on behalf of the Board I would like rate.
In this way we can sustain the level of dividend payment to thank our people.
PageGroup is a people business with a clear during downturns, as well as increasing it during more prosperous and tangible culture.
Our staff are dedicated, hard working and times.
In 2015 we generated cash from underlying operations committed to the Brand.
They have a very strong team ethos of 101.6m and ended the year with cash balances of 95.0m.
which is evident in everything we do.
Thanks to them, over the Given this cash position and our results for the year, we propose last 39 years we have achieved great things.
I have no doubt that to increase the final dividend to 7.9p.
When taken together with together, we will achieve many more.
the interim dividend paid in October of 3.6p, this implies a total increase of 4.5% on 2014.
