OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Overview 05 ChAIRMAnS STATEMEnT ThE GROuP hAS DElIVERED SOlID FInAnCIAl PERFORMAnCE In A DIFFICulT TRADInG EnVIROnMEnT.
ThE REVIEW OF ThE GROuPS STRATEGy, ThE ChAnGES TO ThE ORGAnISATIOn STRuCTuRE, AnD ThE SETTInG OF ClEAR ExECuTIOn PRIORITIES POSITIOnS ThE GROuP WEll TO DEAl WITh ChAllEnGInG MARKET COnDITIOnS.
Andrew ShilSton ChAIRMAn AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 06 Overview ChAIRMAnS STATEMEnT continued 2015 was another year when Morgan It is with great pleasure that the Board Other changes to the Board have recently demonstrated the resilience of its current welcomes Pete Raby as the new Chief been announced with the appointment of portfolio of products and businesses.
As he explains in his review, helen Bunch, effective 24 February 2016, the collapse in the oil price affecting a number considerable progress has been made in and the stepping down of Victoire fide Margerie of our customers and the uncertainties in defining a new framework for the Group, both on 4 February due to the growth in her other many markets, particularly China, the Group in terms of addressable markets and changes commitments.
The Board thanks Victoire for delivered a Group EBITA and a cash flow to the way we operate in order to capitalise on her significant contribution to the Group over from operations very much in line with opportunities.
The Board fully supports these the last four years and is delighted to welcome expectations, albeit with an EBITA margin changes, which build on the solid foundation helen.
I believe that the composition and a little lower at 12.0% compared to 12.8% established over the last 10 years, but it will operation of the Board allows it to make in 2014.
Sales at constant currency were take time, particularly with uncertain markets, an effective contribution to the progress broadly the same as in 2014 at 911.8 million.
for the benefits to be realised.
Cash performance was also good with net debt of 216 million at the end of the year Pete Raby became Chief Executive in August The changes that Pete Raby is proposing to despite heavy investment in capital expenditure.
and for the first seven months of the year the Group will involve considerable efforts It is proposed that the final dividend remains Kevin Dangerfield was the acting CEO, and offer new opportunities to many unchanged at 7.0 pence per share, which a role he performed very well alongside the employees in the Group.
It will also involve would take the full-year dividend to 11.0 responsibilities of being the Chief Financial some roles being eliminated.
The Board pence, compared with 10.9 pence in 2014.
The Board is very grateful for wishes to recognise the impact the new these efforts.
organisation will have on everyone and to The Board continues to believe that the recognise in advance the contribution by technology, applications engineering and The Chief Operating Officer, Andrew hosty, all employees in making the transition as customer relationships the Group possesses left the Group at the beginning of 2016 after smooth as possible.
should enable revenue to grow in years to 24 years with the Group, and the Board come.
It is also recognised that despite the thanks him for his contribution in helping significant steps taken to exit low-margin to position the Group for growth.
We wish Andrew ShilSton ChAIRMAn businesses, the Group remains too complicated him well for the future.
and needs to focus on fewer products and markets, concentrating management effort and financial investment on those that offer the greatest opportunities for growth.
com Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015
