Chairmans Statement Our brands give us significant strength, breadth and diversity, and are consistent in their ambition to help every household make the most of their money.
Each of our three brands generated growth whilst we continued with the three-year investment in our Bruce Carnegie-Brown technology programme.
Chairman Adjusted operating profit We continue to maintain a strong financial position with good cash generation.
Cash generated from operations during the year was 96.9m.
After paying the deferred consideration of 20.6m in connection with the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert, the Group 100.1m 15% ended the year with net cash of 16.7m.
Dividend Total dividend Our continued confidence in the underlying strength and growth prospects of our business is reflected in our progressive and sustainable dividend policy.
9.15p 14% Having reviewed the cash required by the business and the performance of the Group, the Company paid an interim dividend of 2.55p 2014: 2.31p per ordinary share on 11 Results September 2015.
The interim dividend represented an increase 2015 was another year of growth with the Groups revenue of 10% on the interim dividend paid in 2014. increasing by 14% from 248.1m to 281.7m and adjusted operating profit increasing by 15% from 87.3m to 100.1m.
During the second half of the year, the business continued to grow and generate cash.
As a result, the Board is recommending The Group achieved growth across all three brands: a final dividend of 6.6p 2014: 5.69p per ordinary share, MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert and representing an increase of 16% on the final dividend in 2014.
TravelSupermarket, with MoneySavingExpert performing particularly well.
Within MoneySuperMarket, revenue in all our If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General lines of business grew during the year as customers used our Meeting, this will bring the total dividend for the year to 9.15p services to help them meet their financial needs.
2014: 8.00p per ordinary share and will be paid on 6 May 2016 to all shareholders on the register on 1 April 2016.
In September, the three-year deferred consideration period in connection with the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert Our strategic progress concluded.
We paid deferred consideration in November of Our three leading brands give us significant strength, breadth and 20.6m out of a total of up to 27.0m, reflecting the strong diversity, generating growth and increasing the predictability of performance of that business during the three-year period.
All of our brands are consistent in their ambition to As we previously announced, Martin Lewis remains with help every household make the most of their money.
MoneySavingExpert in a new position of Executive Chairman to help it continue to grow and develop.
During the year, we have continued with our significant capital investment programme which commenced in 2014 to improve our technology, our data capabilities and our customer journeys.
The investment allows for greater flexibility and scalability across our different channels and any future channels.
Customers will 2 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General find it easier to use our websites and will benefit from greater The Board personalisation of our services, especially important for our We have a strong and balanced Board, with diversity of customers on smartphones.
This investment will help us to experience and technical expertise with which to support the support additional growth from the business and will further strategic and operational direction of the Group.
differentiate our brands from those of our competitors.
During the year Robin Klein, Michael Wemms and Graham Donoghue All of our motor and home insurance customers in stepped down as Directors.
I would like to thank each of them for MoneySuperMarket and all of our travel customers in their significant contributions to the Board.
In particular I would like TravelSupermarket now use the new technology platform when to thank Graham Donoghue for his commitment and dedication in they visit us.
In 2016 we will migrate a number of other channels helping to develop the new Group technology platform.
to this new technology platform.
Most significantly, on 31 December, Simon Nixon, our founder and In parallel, we continued to invest significantly in our marketing first CEO, stepped down from the Board.
Simon founded the strategy, including the strengthening of our digital marketing business in 1999 and led the business through its IPO in 2007.
Simon capability and the continuation of our Youre So has been an inspirational figure with his relentless focus on product MoneySuperMarket advertising campaign, both of which development and customer service.
We will miss his insights and helped to attract visitors to the Groups websites.
wish him well as he pursues a number of new opportunities.
While no acquisitions were made in 2015, the Group continues to Robin Freestone joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive review acquisition opportunities against a disciplined set of return Director in August 2015 and brings experience of leading global and and risk appetite metrics.
digital businesses to our Group, helping us to shape our strategy and future direction as we become a larger and more complex business.
During 2015, our services have attracted greater attention from Robin will succeed Rob Rowley as Chairman of the Audit Committee our regulators, in part due to the growing habit exhibited by on conclusion of the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
consumers to use price comparison services.
In particular, Ofgem launched an investigation into price comparison websites in the In 2014, the Board made a commitment to achieving a minimum first half of 2015 and the Competition and Markets Authority have representation of 25% of women on the Board by 2016.
I am pleased indicated they will undertake a review of price comparison to say we have met this objective and will continue to focus on websites during 2016.
During 2015 we have sought to enhance our broadening and strengthening the diversity of the Board and the relationships with key regulators and we share the vision of Group in the years to come.
regulators generally to make products more accessible and understandable to consumers.
Our employees Our results this year once again reflect the dedication and quality Governance of all our employees across the Group.
We rely on their skills, Following the formation of the Risk Committee in 2014, the experience, competence and hard work to drive our business identification and management of risk has continued to be a focus forward.
Their passion, innovation and commitment to delivering for us during the year including the approval of a Group-wide Risk the best for our customers are key assets for the Group and critical Appetite Framework and a detailed assessment of the risks to its future success.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank associated with the Groups capital investment programme.
all of our employees for their significant contribution to the Further information on risk management and the key risk focus performance of the Group.
areas during the year are set out on pages 27 to 31.
Outlook During the year, we continued to enhance our approach to We will continue to invest in technology in line with our threeyear corporate governance, building on the areas for improvement programme enabling customers to find it easier to use our identified during our external Board evaluation in 2014.
This websites, benefit from greater personalisation and save more included the creation of an annual forward-looking agenda for the money.
Whilst we remain alert to competitor activity, particularly Board and each of the Committees which enables the Board and in the insurance market, we are confident about our prospects in the Committees to better plan their activities over the course of 2016.
Our brands give us strength, breadth and diversity and are each year.
As a result, we have built a detailed review of one of the consistent in their ambition to help every household make the Groups key strategic priorities into each Board agenda: included most of their money, enabling us to continue to build our business greater focus in Nomination Committee meetings on succession for the future.
planning for the Board and executive management: and enhanced the formal Committee evaluation process to enable the Bruce Carnegie-Brown Committees to appraise more effectively their performance and to Chairman identify any further areas for improvement.
29 February 2016 More information on our approach to governance is set out in my Introduction to Governance, the Corporate Governance Report and the reports of each of the Committees on pages 36 to 71.
These reports describe how we have applied the main principles of the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during 2015 and reports upon our compliance with the Codes provisions.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
