Chairmans Statement The UK retail sector is changing at a pace, and we are changing even faster to ensure that we compete effectively and prosper in this digital-first world.
Our catalogue heritage and niche position gives us many strengths data analysis, understanding our customers and tailoring our offer to them, fit capabilities and our financial services offering.
Our strategy has, and remains, to maintain these significant advantages, whilst addressing our weaknesses and investing behind the opportunities available to us.
We also, however, needed to Board composition group.
Craig was previously Group modernise the business, and this has Chief Financial Officer of BMI We have had a number of changes been a pivotal year for the company Healthcare, and brings with him to the N Brown Group Board this on this journey.
A combination of significant experience in multi-site, year.
Lesley Jones joined the board a very difficult Autumn across the multi-platform businesses of scale.
sector and the short-term impact His sector experience includes She is a financial services executive of some of the changes we are technology, B to C interactive and with over 35 years of marketing and making led to a disappointing profit online media, and healthcare.
performance, however, importantly, Finally, following the retirement of we are improving the sustainability In January we announced that Dean Philip Harland, Theresa Casey was of future profit growth.
Moore would be stepping down to appointed as our new Company pursue other opportunities.
Dean Dividend Secretary and Head of Legal Services has been Chief Financial Officer for in March this year.
We thank Philip In addition to investing in the 11 successful years and the Board for his significant contribution during business, in particular in our strategic would like to thank him for his his 15 years of service and welcome transformation plan Fit for the Future, very significant contribution to the Theresa to the role.
we also continue to recognise the company during that time and wish importance of cash returns to our Outlook him every success in the future.
We intend to pay a final The scale and pace of change required I am very pleased to say Craig dividend of 8.56p this year, taking the to modernise the business put a great Lovelace joined us in May as the total dividend to 14.23p, unchanged deal of strain on our performance in new Chief Financial Officer of the from last year.
a difficult year for the clothing sector.
The fall in profits was nevertheless a disappointment.
However, we laid important foundations for profit recovery and long-term growth.
We have now bedded in many of these changes and this year will see us push on with executing our strategy.
The board remains confident in the outlook for the business, and we believe that we have the right strategy in place to drive sustainable profitable growth.
I would like to thank all stakeholders in the business, and in particular the staff, for all of their hard work, passion and dedication throughout the year.
