Strategic Report Chairmans letter Governance Operational excellence is highlights As a Board, we aspire to apply driving our success highstandards of governance to ourconduct around the Board tableand we commit to ensure thatthese standards, values and behaviours are applied consistently by the Executive team and cascaded throughout theGroup.
During the year, we have continued to refresh the Board to ensure that, as the Group evolves, we have Directors with the right and appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and relevant knowledge in order to deliverour strategy and fulfil our dutiesas Directors.
In line with Code recommendations, the Board recognises and values theimportance of maintaining healthyandopen communications with our shareholders to ensure mutual understanding of the Groupsstrategy, objectives, governance andperformance.
Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman 25 February 2016 Read more p50 also made good progress here.
Our Matthew Crummack brings significant Dear shareholder, financial results for the year with revenue, experience in digital commerce which I am delighted that National Express has profit and margin up in every division hasbecome a critical area of activity again delivered a strong set of results in show the benefits of this focus.
The focus on operational excellence, already made a valuable contribution across the Board, from Dean and Dividend andcomplements the Board with a throughout the business is helping us It is because of this performance, with free retailfocused customer perspective.
toincrease revenues, profit and margin, cash flow again beating our target, and our drive cash and returns to shareholders Mike McKeon joined the Board during the confidence on outlook that the Board is andgenerate new growth opportunities.
year and as well as becoming a member recommending that the full year dividend ofthe Safety & Environment Committee is isincreased to 11.33p, representing 10% New markets Chair of the Audit Committee.
After growth for the year as a whole.
This During the year we commenced operations in spending 15 years as a Group Finance dividend is paid in line with our policy two new markets: Bahraini bus and German Director with wide-ranging international announced during 2015 of two times rail.
I cannot recall a time when anestablished experience, Mike provides expert oversight Group earnings cover.
Subject to approval transport company like oursbegan significant in these crucial areas.
by shareholders, the final dividend will be new operations in two foreign markets in the paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on same year.
It is testament to the management Dr Ashley Steel was appointed last year the register on 29 April 2016. capabilities we have in place at the senior, andtook up her position on the Board in Group level and in local teams to have January 2016.
As a former Vice Chairman Board achieved such a feat.
at KPMG, and their Global Chair for its In this years Annual Report and Accounts transport, leisure and logistics practice, As we have repeatedly said, our ability we have included a Governance in practice shebrings a distinguished career in and togenerate growth in new markets is section to capture the active role the Board significant track record of the sector.
contingent upon us securing and sustaining play across the business, from meeting a reputation for operational excellence.
frontline staff and customers to challenging I look forward to continuing to work with Ibelieve that successful operations in these senior management.
I believe this is Matthew, Mike, Ashley and all the Board two new markets will only strengthen these welcome additional disclosure which gives in2016.
credentials further and hope they will also shareholders and other stakeholders an Sir John Armitt CBE help us open other growth opportunities.
insight into the varied work undertaken bythe Board and I hope you find it useful Chairman Existing businesses and interesting.
25 February 2016 Equally, however, we are focused on Following the announcements last year that ensuring we sustain a reputation for both Sir Andrew Foster and Jackie Hunt operational excellence in our existing would be standing down, we made three markets.
Our customer satisfaction scores, appointments in 2015 to strengthen the contract retention rates and passenger Board in key areas.
growth figures demonstrate that we have 4 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
