Overview Dear Shareholder, The acquisitions of ProVita and Americare, Chairmans 2015 which focus on different aspects of report to shareholders I am delighted to report to shareholders long term care outside the hospital on the excellent progress made in the environment, both acute and non-acute, past year.
have provided your Company with a strong base for a second major vertical in an area 2015 has been a period of transformation of care which continues to experience a and growth for NMC Health Plc as the significant under-supply in the region.
This Company launched the initial phase of its vertical is also being expanded in line with execution of its updated growth strategy your Company`s revised Growth Strategy, which was announced in February 2015. through selected acquisitions and strong Group Revenue increased from US$643.9m organic growth both within the UAE and in 2014 to US$880.9m in 2015.
Consolidated in neighbouring GCC countries including EBITDA also improved by 46.7% from notably Saudi Arabia and Qatar.
US$102.5m to US$150.3m in the latest financial year.
The management team and your Board have insisted, this year as last, on STRATEGY AND ACQUISITIONS extreme rigour in assessing the numerous The most significant events for your acquisition proposals which are identified Company during 2015 were the each year as having possible merit for announcement of our updated Growth your Company and only progresses Strategy in February 2015, and the those which can be shown to be able execution of the initial phase of that to make a significant contribution to the strategy during the year.
The new achievement of your Company`s strategic Growth Strategy, to summarise, is to growth plan.
I believe that shareholders put in place, and to grow, an integrated can take comfort from the fact that multi-vertical and multi-brand healthcare your management team only brings network across several geographies.
opportunities to the Board for review and The acquisitions which we have made decision where they have very strong in 2015, together with the organic and robust reasons for believing that an expansion referred to below, have investment will create long term value enabled your Company to make a good for shareholders.
start in the implementation of this strategic growth plan.
Being positioned alongside our existing multi-specialty and general healthcare The acquisition of Clinica Eugin in facilities, the new businesses acquired Barcelona, Spain and the more recent have already created the basis to grow completion of the acquisition of Fakih IVF two significant verticals as a first step in the UAE announced in February 2016, towards the creation of the integrated together with our existing Brightpoint multi-vertical healthcare Group, which Royal Womens Hospital in Abu Dhabi, has is our aim.
created a substantial vertical in IVF and womens health care.
This vertical is being expanded by further selected acquisitions and organic development.
Making good strategic progress The anticipated growth in private healthcare, in the UAE and the wider GCC continues to be generally favourable.
2 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements ORGANIC EXPANSION The Groups initial expansion strategy, focused on The Groups initial expansion strategy, organic expansion through the development and focused on organic expansion through opening of new hospitals and clinics in the UAE.
the development and opening of new hospitals and clinics in the UAE outlined at the time of the Companys IPO in 2012, This initial expansion plan is now complete and contributing usefully to your Company`s results.
During the year, in addition to the excellent initial performance achieved during the ramp-up phase for both Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital in Abu Dhabi and DIP General Hospital in Dubai which had opened in 2014, we partially opened our new 250 licensed bed flagship super specialty Hospital, NMC Royal Hospital, in the Khalifa City suburb of Abu Dhabi within budget.
NMC Royal Hospital has been a vision of our founder and Executive Vice Chairman and CEO, Dr B. R. Shetty, for many years and its opening is a significant milestone for the Group.
As part of our Group Strategy, and alongside our acquisition program, management, supported by the Board, continue to seek new locations for organic growth through the development of traditional healthcare facilities in both the UAE, and regionally in the GCC.
BUILDING CAPABILITY With the partial opening of our 250 licensed beds super specialty and quartenery care NMC Royal MultiHospital in 2015 and the subsequent opening of inpatient services with 75 beds operational in March speciality 2016, we have completed the major component of the NMC hub-and-spoke network.
Licensed beds This enhanced multi-specialty healthcare delivery 665 network of assets across the UAE has elevated NMCs capacity, geographical presence, service quality and offering complexity to further increase NMCs future growth prospects.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 O Ov five er rv viiew ew and the continuing development of Heather Lawrence has since year end Chairmans 2015 Board processes which were considered decided to step down from the Board report to shareholders appropriate as the Group grew in size with her resignation effective on and complexity.
Heather joined the Board continued in March 2012 prior to the Companys However, in December 2015 the Board IPO and as well as serving on the Audit did undertake an appraisal process Committee, was instrumental in the by way of a questionnaire completed Board setting up the Clinical Governance by Board members.
This appraisal Committee to provide Board oversight concluded that, in the Boards view, its of quality and safety in the Groups structure, composition, processes and healthcare division.
The Board are very discussions are appropriate for NMC grateful for her contribution over the last at the current time.
Of course we will three years and wish her well for the future.
now appraise ourselves each year and GROUP FINANCING AND VIABILITY continue to develop as a Board team.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF Any period of substantial growth and The management team was restructured capital development needs to be The other governance related focus for with effect from 1 January 2015 when progressed against a background of the Board and the Company this year Prasanth Manghat was appointed Deputy a strong financial base.
As I reported has been the inclusion of a Viability Chief Executive Officer and Suresh last year, in February 2015 the Company Statement as recommended under Krishnamoorthy was appointed Chief announced a new US$825m financing the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Financial Officer.
Prasanth Manghat has facility which was made up of two Code.
The new requirement to make been assisting Dr Shetty in both managing elements, namely a US$350m facility a statement in relation to our longer the Group businesses and in executing the to repay existing debt and for general term viability is different in nature to the next phase of our strategic growth plan.
corporate purposes, and a US$475m traditional consideration of whether we Mr Krishnamoorthy has ensured that the facility to facilitate strategic acquisitions.
can continue to prepare our accounts Group is in a good financial position to be on a Going Concern basis on a forward able to progress this strategy.
The Board This strong financial base enabled the 12 month time frame.
The Board has is delighted with the excellent progress Company to restructure existing loans, reviewed the Companys viability over that the Executive Directors and Senior reduce its cost of funds and create a three year timeframe and our Viability Management Team have made in growing additional headroom to ensure that Statement is included on page 89. the Group in 2015. the Group is conservatively financed.
DIVIDEND Across the Group, we continue to consider RISK As a result of the continued good the Companys human capital as vital to Our Group businesses deal with risk performance and financial stability of the success of your Company, particularly every day in operating and in planning the Company, your Board plans to submit during this period of significant change within their particular business or facility.
a resolution to shareholders at the 2016 and growth.
We have welcomed new The Board has always considered strategic Annual General Meeting authorising businesses and employees to the NMC risks in operating our businesses, executing payment of a cash dividend of 6.2 pence family and both the Board and I would our growth strategy and reviewing per share, an increase of 14.8% compared like to thank them all, whether new or potential acquisitions.
In Q4, 2014 the to the 2014 dividend payment as long time employees, for their continued management team, supported by PwC, shareholders continue to benefit from commitment, contribution, energy and implemented a full risk identification the improved performance of the goodwill during this period of change.
process with the risks facing the business Group.
For the fourth year running this developed through a bottom-up top-down is approximately 20% of profit after tax, OUTLOOK review process which has been, and will be, within the range which the Board Despite some challenging economic reviewed during each financial year.
There indicated at the time of the Companys conditions within some of the markets have been a few changes to the Groups IPO would be their dividend target.
where we operate due largely to the fall risk profile in the last 12 months including in the price of oil, the anticipated growth specific focus on those risks which are BOARD in private healthcare, in the UAE and the inherent as part of an acquisitive strategy 2014 saw significant changes in the size wider GCC continues to be generally for growth.
A list of the risks facing the and structure of the Board.
During the favourable and your Board continues Group, how these are mitigated and what 2015 financial year, however, there were to view the outlook for your Group effect the principal risks could have on the no board changes, with the board with confidence.
Group are set out on pages 37 to 39. structured with: The Board has taken a proactive stance A wider cultural and ethnic mix in considering risk, and the board sees benefitting Board discussions given H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS this as an essential element in the the Companys listing in the UK and Non-Executive Chairman successful development of the Group operations in the UAE: and in creating long term value for Significant female representation 33% our shareholders.
on the Board: More than half of its number resident GOVERNANCE VIABILITY in the UAE, the Companys home Your Board has been evolving in size, market: and skill sets and cultural diversity since the A wide range of skills and experience, Companys IPO in 2012.
You will have including more than half of the noted in previous Annual Reports that the Board having significant operational Board considered that an appraisal of its or regulatory experience of healthcare own performance was not appropriate in services from different parts of the world.
previous years given its changing nature 4 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Group Strategic Report In this section: 6 Executive Vice Chairman & CEO review 10 Our business model 12 Our strategy 18 Financial summary and highlights 20 Business overview 24 Financial review 28 Corporate social responsibility 37 Risk management NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5
