Chairmans statement Steady progress amidst falling oil prices With oil prices falling to around US$30and the devaluation of the Tenge in 2015 we are focusing our efforts to further reduce operating costs as part of our cost reduction programme.
Given the low operating costs of our field we can continue to generate positive cashflow even at thecurrent low oil prices.
Whilst cost cutting and liquidity management arethe short-term focus, we remain committed to creating value through the construction of our new gas plant, the doubling of production capacity and expanding our reserves base.
2016 dividend As a result of the falling oil prices in 2015, we are not proposing a dividend payment for 2016.
We believe that in the current environment maintaining Our vision forward to its completion next year, short-term liquidity will ultimately lead Nostrums vision is to grow production enabling us to double our production to greater shareholder value in the to over 100,000 boepd and to capacity to 100,000 boepd.
This is a tough decision buildareserve base that allows the that Nostrum is uniquely placed to tomake as we had established a track Company to continue to produce at notonly survive the current fall in oil record of distributing a small portion this level far into the future.
This goal prices but also to prosper once we of cash to shareholders.
However the isnow less than 24 months away from have completed our new gas plant.
Board believes that cash preservation being realised, with the new gas plant Our ambitions to build one the leading is paramount in these uncertain times.
Our target independent E&P companies in the remains to become one of the leading FSU remain as strong as ever and Stable production levels companies in the FSU.
Ibelieve the current environment can The financial performance of the provide us with growth opportunities, Company was built on another steady Nostrum intends to realise its vision rather than limitations.
Production through a clearly defined strategy, of 40,391 boepd was below our balancing organic development Flexible financial position guidance due to unforseen repair withcarefully considered expansion We continue to manage our cash works to the pipeline through which through acquisitions.
Its main priority position prudently and have ended gas is exported.
Excluding the period remains, as always, to continue to theyear with over US$160m of cash on of maintenance we would have met our deliver growth and shareholder value our balance sheet.
Given the volatile oil target guidance figure for production in a responsible and efficient way.
price, we also took steps tofurther for the year.
Along with our new protect the liquidity position of the Resilient financial and hedge, this steady production and Company.
A new hedge was entered  associated cash flow continues to allow into that covers the Company over Nostrum delivered a steady Nostrum to fully finance its investment 2016 and 2017 and locks in US$49.16 performance in 2015 with production in further infrastructure to double our per barrel on 15,000 boepd.
The cost averaging over 40,000 boepd for the production capacity.
of the new hedge was paid forentirely entire year.
The falling oil price meant by the proceeds of the previous that the Groups financial results for hedge.
In addition we have decided to theyear were not as strong as in 2014, phase the payments for the but with the continuation of our cost construction of our gas plant over the reduction programme and an increase next 24 months to match the cash we in gas revenue from our new export will receive under our hedge.
This contract for 75% of our gas, we ensures that the Company can execute maintained a resilient EBITDA margin its business plan under any oil price of over 50%.
We made good progress over the next 24 months.
this year on our new gas plant and look Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 12 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Nostrums ability to navigate this period oflowoil prices centres on the quality of its assetbase and the commitment of our people.
Multi-field asset base established Our commitment to corporate Our people Nostrum has started the appraisal responsibility Nostrums growth and success revolves programme on the three additional At Nostrum we strive to be a around the quality and commitment licences acquired in 2013 which are responsible and transparent business.
ofour people and we believe we have estimated by Ryder Scott to hold Our corporate responsibility an excellent team that can deliver our 87mboe equivalent.
We have adopted approachcovers the relationships strategy notwithstanding a lower oil the same approach with our additional wehave with all our stakeholders price.
Our global workforce now totals fields that we undertook with including shareholders, employees, more than 1,000 people.
The first step is to fully contractors, local communities and committed to developing local content understand the geology and fide-risk host governments, as well as the and 98% of the people employed in the development progamme as much environments in which we work.
our activities in Kazakhstan are Kazakh as possible.
We have carried out new Nostrums strategy on Corporate nationals as at the end of 2015.
We will 3-D seismic on each field and have Responsibility focuses around three continue to develop our employment now interpreted it, allowing us to key areas people, planet, and profit practices and policies to ensure we can havea much better understanding and includes the following initiatives: attract and retain the best talent.
At the ofwhere to position our first appraisal same time we are implementing a cost Nostrum has made it a priority to wells.
Westarted drilling the first reduction programme to adapt to communicate its approach to its appraisal well in the largest field, thenew low oil price environment various stakeholders, emphasising Rostoshinskoye, in 2015, and its initial which will ensure we do not carry itsstringent corporate governance results are looking promising We look unnecessary excess costs into 2016. provisions and business ethics: forward to developing these fields and The future to bringing them into production to Nostrum monitors and reports on 2015 was a challenging year for utilise our infrastructure development.
the wellbeing of its employees, Nostrum as we adapted to the falling health and safety measures, working Governance and the Board oil price.
We reacted quickly in cutting environment specifics and overall The Board understands the costs and took steps to protect the benefits.
Nostrum also reports on its importance of providing effective financial stability of the Company direct involvement in the community andclear leadership and direction whilst not deviating from our strategy through programmes providing onall matters relating to corporate to double our processing capacity social infrastructure, sponsoring governance and places great andreach a production level in excess activities and charitable work: and significance on achieving high of 100,000 boepd in the near future.
standards of governance to underpin Nostrum manages its environmental In2016 we need to remain vigilant the Groups good business conduct oncost cutting and ensure that each footprint carefully and adheres fully and strong ethical culture.
With this in to relevant legislation.
The Company dollar we invest will deliver future mind I am very pleased with how the returns for shareholders in the new oil is also proactive in linking its Company has handled its first full year environmental objectives to the price environment.
Whilst the industry since its regulatory obligations were is still adapting to the low oil prices highest possible standards and increased as a result of the Companys ensuring stringent compliance and Ibelieve at Nostrum we have made admission to the premium listing quick decisive decisions that will progress monitoring.
segment of the Official List of the protect our stakeholders under all In 2015, we believe Nostrums actions Financial Conduct Authority and to possible oil price scenarios.
With these have had a positive impact on its wide trading on the London Stock Exchange solid foundations I look forward to range of stakeholders, including PLCs main market for listed securities completing our near-term initiatives investors, business partners, in June 2014.
I believe the Company and seeing Nostrum prosper under regulators, employees, customers, has handled this transition very well.
any recovery in the oil price in local communities, the environment During 2015 the Board continued thefuture.
towork closely with management to maintain high standards of corporate governance and to ensure the Companys continued compliance withthe rules imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority and associated guidance under the UK Corporate Frank Monstrey Governance Code.
Chairman Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 13
