Overview Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 2.
Chairmans Statement UK Growth Overseas Expansion Lord Rose The UK grocery market continued to face In February 2015, we announced our target to sign significant challenges over the year, characterised our first OSP customer during 2015.
We continue Chairman by falling volumes and price discounting by to be in multiple discussions with retailers across major supermarket operators, resulting in margin several geographies and although none of these pressure in the market.
However, the increased have yet resulted in a signed deal, we remain trend for consumers to shop online for groceries, confident of signing multiple deals in the medium and particularly using mobile devices, has term.
Our customer base has extended Improving Efficiency and further, now with over 500,000 active customers, and we remain one of a small group of grocery Expanding Capacity retailers in the UK that has grown, with Retail sales We strive to operate with ever improving efficiency... we remain one of a increasing by 14.7% to 1,116 million and EBITDA and last year we made further progress in our up by 13.8% to 81.5 million for the period.
small group of grocery existing facilities.
We will shortly open our latest CFC in Andover, Hampshire, which will use our Customers and Suppliers retailers in the UK that new proprietary fulfilment solution, and which We have improved the quality of what we offer our we expect will be more efficient to operate than has grown... customers in terms of service and ease of use, the our current facilities.
In developing our capacity range of products we sell, and our commitment further, we expect our fourth CFC in Erith, South to good value pricing.
We plan to launch our next East London, to become operational towards the specialist site in the premium beauty category end of 2017. in conjunction with Marie Claire later this year, broadening our offer in this attractive category.
At Proprietary Technology and the same time, we continue to work closely with Intellectual Property our suppliers, providing more opportunities for Read more about Our Marketplace Following the implementation of our first strategic them to drive their sales within Ocado, critical to on pages 14 and 15 customers business, Morrisons.
com, we have our respective fortunes and further strengthening announced our intention to sign agreements our relationships as suppliers increasingly with international retailers to use Ocado Smart embrace the online channel.
Read the Chairmans Governance Introduction on pages 52 and 53 Platform to run their online operations, leveraging our expertise, infrastructure and technology.
com Overview As we generate more intellectual property and technology through innovation and development, the Board remains committed to signing strategic customers.
We believe this will lead to the creation of increased long-term shareholder value in the business.
Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of having a well-defined corporate governance framework, especially in a rapidly growing business.
As the Companys Chairman, I am pleased to note that the Group continues to foster an innovative environment, which is protected and enhanced by strong governance and risk management.
A detailed statement on corporate governance for 2015 can be found on pages 50 to 117.
Board Changes Throughout my time as Chairman I have been assisted by the experience and enthusiasm of David Grigson, our Senior Independent Director.
David has indicated that he will be retiring at our next AGM, after six years in the role, and I want to convey my thanks to him and wish him well in his retirement.
Corporate Responsibility We continued to develop and implement a more structured approach to maintaining and improving responsible and sustainable business practices.
A detailed description of our efforts can be found on pages 42 to 47.
The Ocado Family We are extremely fortunate to have exceptionally talented, entrepreneurial and dedicated employees.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all members of the Ocado family for their contribution throughout the year.
Lord Rose Chairman Ocado Group plc 05 slugline 06 slugline Strategic Report 3.
Our Capabilities and Ocado Smart Platform 10 5.
Our Business Model and Partners 12 6.
