Overview Chairmans statement We are making NAV per share growth the strategic driver for the business.
During 2015 we: Dear Shareholder reduced underlying costs by $60 million.
This was achieved 2015 proved to be a hard year for our industry and Ophir through a number of measures including synergies from the hasresponded well in adapting to a very different operating acquisition of Salamander Energy, the closure of five operational environment.
Although we are fortunate to have a strong balance offices, and the attendant staff reductions: sheet and high quality asset base, we rebalanced swiftly our made significant progress with moving forward the Fortuna FLNG business to reduce costs which ensured we utilised fullythe project in Equatorial Guinea by agreeing Heads of Terms HoT strengthof our balance sheet.
with Golar LNG to be the Midstream provider and with seven In the Chief Executives review, Nick Cooper outlines our thinking potential gas offtakers.
Post year-end we also agreed HoT with interms of how we can ensure value creation in both the current Schlumberger for anUpstream investment of 40% in the project andfuture cycles through a sharper strategic focus on increasing that will see Ophirs share of capital expenditure on the project netasset value NAV per share.
covered to beyond first gas.
Thisproject will deliver in excess of $200 million of free cash flow per annum from 2019 net to our I am pleased that the work of our excellent team of people, together residual 40% economic interest: and with our strong governance processes and structure, hasenabled continued to act counter-cyclically to secure attractive the Board to lead the business forward to comprehensively meet our exploration acreage with minimal commitments that effectively strategic objectives.
provide us with a series of options.
2015 was a milestone year with the commencement of continuous revenues and cash flow from the Asian producing assets obtained through the acquisition of Salamander Energy.
This brought with it anew set of operational challenges and the Board is pleased that we maintained our excellent track record for operating safely with no Lost Time Incidents recorded during the year.
We constantly review our health and safety and environmental practices and will be adopting leading, as well as lagging, indicators this year as we seek to further advance our management systems and procedures.
More details on this are available in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Annual Report.
