STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am privileged to have been asked to serve the company and its board as Chairman, having PayPoint gains been appointed as a non-executive director in 2009.
Approved Payment Institution status We are pleased to report strong growth in net revenue with operating profits up 9.1% for the Payment Institution status further year under review.
Our retail networks performed well and we have continued to make progress enhances our position as one of in Mobile and Online.
We are proposing a final dividend of 26.1p per share, an increase of 9.2% the leading non-bank payment companies and authorises on the final dividend last year, and our cash position remains strong.
us to develop new product capability in regulated areas Following a review of the Mobile and Online businesses, the board has decided to sell our parking to bring schemes to market and online payment processing companies to refocus on multi-channel payments and services, quicker and operate them where we have retail networks.
This will allow us to realise the value of the businesses we propose more efficiently.
Further details of the proposed sale can be found in the Chief Executives statement.
It also means that we are able We are committed to best-in-class governance for the board and processes that support the to develop digital and electronic executives strong record on controls, ethics, risk and management.
versions of our successful CashOut service.
CashOut reverses the traditional flow of cash from We are delighted that Neil Carson has joined the board as Senior Independent Director and customer to retailer by enabling remuneration committee Chairman.
I am also delighted to welcome Gill Barr, who has agreed retailers to make certain payments to join our board on 1 June 2015.
We would like to thank David Newlands for his contribution to customers.
Existing services as Chairman over many years and Eric Anstee, who has served as audit committee Chairman include energy dual fuel rebates, for the last seven years.
We would also like to thank Warren Tucker for his contribution.
Full Warm Home Discount, the details of the current directors are set out on page 23.
Simple Payment service for benefits and pensions and We have already reorganised the continuing business to focus on developing multi-channel Quick Credit Vouchers QCV for emergency payments.
payments and services for the blue chip clients of our retail networks, following the decision to sell the parking and online payment processing businesses.
We have developed and sold the first multi-channel product and will look to extend the application across our varied client base.
Multi-channel Our new terminal, now under development, will be piloted this year and will bring with it wider payment system for opportunities for new products for clients, retailers and consumers.
We will also be continuing energy payments the search for retail expansion in new geographies.
Independent energy supplier Utilita has become the first user The board is excited by the long term potential for profitable growth and development as we of PayPoints new integrated, capitalise on our competitive advantages and market opportunities.
multi-channel payment solution for smart meter customers.
PayPoint has developed an Nick Wiles innovative solution for energy Chairman suppliers and other consumer 28 May 2015 service organisations to manage their relationships with their customers, giving them an improved experience when choosing where, when and how they pay for their energy.
Utilitas customers now have complete flexibility to pay using whichever method is most convenient for them at the time in cash at any of the stores in PayPoints retail network or by credit and debit card using their mobile phone, tablet or personal computer.
Utilitas customer base is growing rapidly and our aim is to offer our customers the best possible payment experience.
PayPoints unique multi-channel solution is integral to meeting that challenge and will help us to achieve our ambitious growth targets.
Bill Bullen, founder and Managing Director of Utilita Energy 2 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2015
