Strategic report | Strategic overview Chairmans statement I am pleased to confirm to shareholders that, despite the Dear Shareholder 2 challenges, EBITDA increased compared to the previous In my final report to you as Chairman of Pennon Group year.
Outperformance from the fleet of ERFs more than prior to my retirement following the 2015 Annual General offset the declining trend in landfill and the softening of Meeting AGM, I can confirm that this has once again been recycling markets.
a successful year for the Group.
I am pleased to be handing A full report can be found in the Report from the over to Sir John Parker at a time when Pennons subsidiary ChiefExecutive, Viridor on pages 22 to 27. businesses are well positioned for strong future growth.
Dividend Since joining the Board 18 years ago there has been a significant number of key achievements that have enabled In March 2015 the Board announced a continuation of its the Group to develop and grow to become one of the dividend policy of year-on-year growth of 4% above RPI UKs leading utility and resource management companies.
inflation until 2019 20, reflecting the Boards confidence in Under the guidance of Sir John and the Board, I remain the future financial performance of the Group.
This amounts confident in the continued success of the Group and its to a policy for 10 consecutive years 2010-2020 of 4% real long-term prospects.
Business performance We are recommending a final dividend per share of 21.82p, Group revenue was up by 2.7% to 1,357.2 million and which represents a 4.3% increase on last years final dividend.
This will result in a total dividend for the year of profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 1.6% to 1 210.7 million.
We continue to maintain substantial cash 31.80p, an increase of 4.9% reflecting March 2015 inflation of 0.9% on the total dividend for 2013 14.
Following resources and facilities to fund our capital programme and we ended the year with a record level of over 1.7 billion shareholder approval at last years AGM, we will again be offering a Scrip Dividend Alternative to shareholders in including 196 million of restricted funds.
respect of the final dividend for which the timetable is given South West Water on page 158.
Once again, I am pleased to report that South West Water Sustainability and governance delivered strong operational and financial performance Environmental, social and governance ESG matters are and high standards of customer service.
The year saw the successful conclusion of the K5 2010-2015 regulatory integral to the Groups strategy and business model and the Sustainability Committee of the Board continues to oversee period and Ofwats confirmation of enhanced status for South West Waters Business Plan to 2020.
South West our performance in maintaining a responsible approach to ESG.
Our notable achievements during the year include Water subsequently accepted the Final Determination in December 2014.
I expect this to lead to a tangible financial landfill restoration and biodiversity protection, completion of sustainable catchment schemes, continued high standards benefit for Pennon.
Key projects have been accelerated and there is an opportunity to achieve the highest potential in bathing water quality and progress made in reducing the number of pollution incidents.
returns on equity in the sector.
Pennon considers fair treatment of its customers, employees Further details of the companys performance can be found and other stakeholders to be an important factor in creating in the Report from the ChiefExecutive, South West Water on a sustainable business.
The Group has continued to make pages 14 to 19. good progress in achieving high standards of customer Viridor satisfaction, increased levels of employee engagement Viridor has made excellent progress in delivering its Energy and good community relations.
Further information on the Recovery Facility ERF business, with operations having Groups approach to sustainability is provided throughout the started at five more ERFs and a further three plants under strategic report and in the Sustainability Committee report construction.
The ERF business is now contributing for the year on pages 67 to 69. meaningfully to growth in profits and cash flow.
The Groups governance arrangements continue to be Trading conditions in recycling remained under pressure reviewed annually to ensure we develop and improve our during 2014 15 and, as anticipated, revenue from landfill governance structures and practices, taking account of continued to decline.
These developments were monitored market developments and new best practice guidance.
The closely by the Board throughout the year.
subsidiary boards have their own governance bodies and procedures under the Group framework.
Details are set out in the Governance section of this report, on pages 54 and 58.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
8 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE PROFIT AND DIVIDEND GROWTH Health and safety Diversity Health and safety continues to be a top priority for us.
The The Board continues to promote equality and diversity Groups boards and senior management teams are highly across the Group.
Prior to the year-end we achieved our engaged with and supportive of the various initiatives that target of 25% female representation.
Since then, due to have been introduced throughout the year.
Board transition, we have fallen below this level, but I am pleased to say we are set to achieve the target once more South West Water continuously reviews its policies and following the retirements that will happen after the AGM.
processes in order to minimise the likelihood of an incident and the company remains focused on developing a More information on the Boards diversity policy can be proactive health and safety culture.
found within the Nomination Committees report, on page 70.
Viridor continues to work towards achieving a step change in culture and attitudes, built around its Stop & Think Outlook campaigns, and there has been a steadily improving trend Our priority continues to be the creation of shareholder value in health and safety reportable incidents over the last three through our strategic focus on water and wastewater services, years.
Tragically in early June 2015 there was an incident and recycling, renewable energy and resource management.
which resulted in the sad death of a Viridor employee.
Our Early receipt of Ofwats Draft Determination by South West thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues.
Water enabled the acceleration of key projects in 2014 15 Board developments that were identified in the companys business plan for In April 2015 Sir John Parker joined the Board as Deputy K6 2015-2020.
With South West Waters track record of Chairman and will succeed me as Chairman following the efficiency and outperformance, the company has a strong AGM this year.
Sir John is recognised as one of the most foundation to deliver its business plan and will have an experienced and respected business leaders in the UK, and opportunity to outperform the assumed returns on equity.
his previous background in the utilities and waste sectors In addition South West Water is well prepared for, and will be particularly valuable to Pennon and its subsidiary supportive of, industry reform.
I wish him every success with the future Viridor is making excellent progress in developing further strategic development of the Group.
its ERF business with five ERFs having come on stream in As announced last year, Gerard Connell, the Boards the year.
These projects and associated contracts already Senior Independent Director, will also stand down following contribute to Viridors profitability and reflect the realisation the AGM, marking the end of a term of office lasting 12 of a strategy that is expected to contribute c. 100 million to years.
We would like to thank Gerard for his considerable Viridors EBITDA in 2016 17. contribution to the Groups success over the years and wish In April 2015 we acquired Bournemouth Water, one of the him well in his future endeavours.
Gill Rider will become the highest performing water-only companies in the UK.
The new Senior Independent Director.
Board believes the acquisition will be highly complementary During the year we welcomed Neil Cooper to the Board as to South West Waters business, subject to clearance from a non-executive director.
Neil has become chairman of the the Competition and Markets Authority.
Further detail can be Audit Committee in succession to Gerard Connell.
found in the Report from the ChiefExecutive, South West Water on page 14.
At the end of January we saw the retirement of David Dupont after more than 12 years as the Group Director The Group, with long-term financing, continues to be well of Finance during which he successfully managed the positioned for the future and the Board remains confident financial affairs of the Group through a period of substantial about the future success of the Group.
I am pleased to say that SusanDavy, who was finance and regulatory director of South West Water, was appointed as Davids successor.
As I prepare to stand down as Chairman of the Group, I am confident that I am leaving a strong Board with a broad wealth of experience and knowledge that is well placed to guide Pennon through its next phase of development Ken Harvey and growth.
Chairman Pennon Group Plc 22 June 2015 www.
