02 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chairmans introduction Sidney Taurel at the same or lower cost.
The value of a university Chairman degree continues to grow, but many students and institutions face cost pressures.
These changes o er big opportunities for Pearson, but also present risks and transitions that we will need to manage in some of our traditionally strong businesses.
With these factors in mind, my immediate priorities are clear: I will be supporting our management team to ensure that we stay focused on our biggest strategic growth objectives.
M y focus will be on helping I will o er guidance to help them to make further guide Pearson back to growth, progress on simplifying and integrating the business.
We need to make sure that Pearson is better able to supporting the management leverage our assets, skills, and technology platforms in order to deploy our products globally.
team and all of our employees I will be supporting the team to ensure that capital in our mission: to help more is allocated in a way that provides better returns for shareholders, ultimately creating a better, more people make progress in their sustainable company for the future.
We will engage transparently with shareholders on our capital allocation plans and progress against our Dear shareholders, strategic goals, as well as on all important issues.
I am proud to introduce our annual report for the first We plan to hold our dividend at the 2015 level while we time as Pearsons chairman.
rebuild cover, re ecting the boards con dence in the My predecessor, Glen Moreno, made a major medium-term outlook for our business, and we are contribution to Pearson during his long and successful committed to increasing total shareholder returns.
I am sure my fellow shareholders These priorities require strong leadership, will join me in thanking Glen and wishing him all the dedication and hard work from me, the board, best for the future.
This is an important time to be joining Pearson.
Our leadership team Our 2015 performance was not what we would We have continued to enhance the strength and depth have wanted, and we now have a plan in place to of our board, including the appointment of Coram Williams return the company to growth.
as our chief financial o cer.
Coram has a decades The company has a strong purpose at its heart, and has experience working directly for Pearson and helped to made great strides in focusing on education.
My own lead our joint venture, Penguin Random House, through focus will be on helping guide Pearson back to growth, a successful company integration as its first CFO.
supporting the management team and all of our Like me, Lincoln Wallen joined the board on 1 January employees in our mission: to help more people make 2016.
Lincoln is chief technology o cer for DreamWorks progress in their lives through learning.
Animation, and his appointment further strengthens Our immediate priorities our digital capabilities.
Like thousands of Pearson employees across the globe, he also has a background This is a challenging time for businesses in global in education and teaching.
education, with rapid changes taking place in the sector.
Digital technology is revolutionising education just as it We have an experienced executive team, and committed has all other aspects of the way we work, communicate employees around the world.
I look forward to working with and do business.
In an era of constrained spending, John Fallon and the executive team to deliver our agenda.
there is a big productivity challenge, as governments Read more about our board on pages 72-73. and education leaders seek to achieve better outcomes Our business Our performance Our Social impact Governance Financial statements Section 1 Our business 03 Building a company for the future Share price performance I led Eli Lilly, a business in the global health sector, as One year % change CEO and Chair for ten years.
I see some clear parallels Pearson -38.2% between health and education that I believe provide FTSE 100 -4.9% opportunities for Pearson.
FTSE All-Share -2.5% Like health, education a ects every citizen of the world FTSE All-Share Media 13.3% in a deep and personal way.
Both sectors have seen STOXX 600 Media 12.0% dramatic increases in the use of digital technologies for the bene t of users in our case, teachers and Five years % change students.
For us, this means personalised, adaptive Pearson -27.0% learning, with the ability to measure and improve FTSE 100 5.8% outcomes at an individual level.
FTSE All-Share 12.5% So we are continuing at pace on our mission to become FTSE All-Share Media 78.2% more digital and service-driven, and a simpler, better STOXX 600 Media 68.8% integrated business, with e cacy at the heart of everything we do.
Read more on our ongoing Ten years % change commitment to e cacy on pages 46-53.
Pearson 7.1% FTSE 100 11.1% Pearsons future FTSE All-Share 21.0% I would like to thank you for your continued support 88.2% FTSE All-Share Media of Pearson.
It has been a tough 2015, and there are STOXX 600 Media 36.1% undoubtedly challenges ahead.
Pearson is a company with strong market positions, real competitive Source: Datastream to 31 December 2015 advantage and a signi cant medium-term market opportunity.
The board believes that the plans we are enacting will help to build on these strengths and enjoy Total shareholder return TSR See p14 sustained growth.
One year % change I see an exciting future ahead for Pearson as with Pearson -35.7% my experience in the health sector, I am inspired by FTSE 100 -1.3% working in a company with a strong sense of purpose.
FTSE All-Share 1.0% As chairman I am fully focused on helping the management team develop our strategy and deliver FTSE All-Share Media 16.5% long-term value for our students, customers and you, STOXX 600 Media 15.3% our shareholders.
Five years % change Pearson -11.2% FTSE 100 26.9% Sidney Taurel FTSE All-Share 33.8% Chairman FTSE All-Share Media 107.5% 102.6% STOXX 600 Media Read our full Governance section Ten years % change Governance overview p70-71 Pearson 59.8% FTSE 100 60.2% Leadership & e ectiveness p72-81 FTSE All-Share 71.8% Accountability p82-89 FTSE All-Share Media 155.8% Engagement p90-93 STOXX 600 Media 97.4% Report on directors remuneration p94-117 Source: Datastream to 31 December 2015 Additional disclosures p118-123
