Pets at Home Group Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans statement We are proud to be delivering upon our goals in our first year as a public company and are confident in the outlook for the Group.
Tony DeNunzio Non-Executive Chairman Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 13 Overview | Strategy | Performance In the financial year 2015, revenues grew Looking ahead, we believe growth in the It has been another successful by 9.6% to 729.1m, supported by our UK pet market will be supportive to our year for Pets at Home.
I am store and services rollout and like-for-like business.
We also have strong strategic pleased to report a year growth of 4.2%.
This growth was levers that will enable us to deliver another underpinned by strength in a number year of expansion and profitable growth.
We of excellent progress across of areas: Advanced Nutrition, Health and are confident in the outlook for the Group.
the Group, delivering upon Hygiene products, VIP club, pet services and omni-channel.
Gross margin expanded Finally, I would like to express my thanks our goals in our first year by 40bps to 54.2% and underlying EPS and admiration for all our colleagues.
We have continued We are at heart a people business: to deleverage the business as a result reliant on the expertise and passion of our Market dynamics continue to be of strong cash flow and underlying free colleagues, and the bond they have with positive, supported by the themes of cashflow generation at the end of the our highly engaged customers and their pet humanisation, the move towards year was 92.8m.
Without them, we would be unable premium Advanced Nutrition foods and the to deliver the exceptional customer service increasing use of pet services, such as Based on the successful financial and advice that is essential to our success.
veterinary treatment and pet grooming.
performance of the business, the Board is recommending a total dividend for the Whilst the market offers supportive year of 5.4 pence per share, at the top end dynamics, our Executive Team has also of our commitment.
executed successfully upon our strategy, enabling us to outperform the pet market.
One of our most important values is to All three pillars of the strategy have shown put pets before profit, which touches every Tony DeNunzio positive progression: we have grown area of our business, from strategy through Non-Executive Chairman like-for-like sales through a number of to the daily activities of our colleagues 3 June 2015 commercial levers, we have achieved gross in stores.
Charitable initiatives therefore margin expansion, and we have increased remain a key priority.
Support Adoption our portfolio, opening 25 new stores, For Pets, which we helped to establish and 61 vet practices and 50 grooming salons.
is widely supported across the business, is the largest animal rehoming charity in During the year we have continued to the UK and raised over 3m during the year.
take market share across the key growth Our VIP loyalty club also generates charity segments: Advanced Nutrition, pet lifelines every time a customer swipes their accessories, veterinary services and pet card, resulting in 1.4m raised for customer grooming.
We also reached some important chosen animal charities in 2015. milestones: opening our 400th store, our 300th vet practice and our VIP loyalty scheme surpassed three million members.
Governance overview page 64 The leadership team In our first year as a public company, with newly appointed Independent Non-Executive Directors, we have dedicated considerable time to discussing the Groups Tony DeNunzio CBE Dennis Millard Nick Wood Ian Kellett Amy Stirling Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Independent strategy, understanding Chairman Senior Independent Officer Non-Executive progress against strategic Non-Executive Director Director priorities and confirmed those areas which require ongoing Board oversight.
Read more about the Board and our governance on page 64.
Paul Coby Tessa Green CBE Paul Moody Brian Carroll Louise Stonier Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Group Company Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Secretary & Legal Director Director Director Director
