Chairmans statement The Boards priority for Restoring our reputation Anyone familiar with the Petrofac story will know about the issues 2015 was to continue to that overshadowed our recent performance.
guide Petrofac back to The Laggan-Tormore project on Shetland in the UK unsurprisingly took up a great deal of the Boards time during the year.
Whilst the its traditional areas of project was initially approved in 2010, it significantly reduced our earnings in 2014 and 2015.
In April we were obliged to update the strength in the face of Market that we expected the cost-to-complete the project would be significantly higher than we had previously anticipated and the costs another challenging year.
Nevertheless, I am proud that we stayed the course, notwithstanding the many challenges that we faced in such an extreme environment.
Total E&P UK announced Last year I spoke of the Boards determination to restore first production from the Laggan and Tormore fields on 8 February Petrofacs reputation for excellence in project delivery, reduce 2016 and anticipates that the overall development will help meet its capital intensity, and position the Company to succeed in the UKs gas needs for decades to come.
In addition, the FPF1 conversion for the Greater Stella Area field This year, I want to update you on progress made so far.
Whilst development has been another project where our delivery has fallen 2015 was undoubtedly challenging and we delivered disappointing short of our usual high standards.
However, we are now making good financial results, I am encouraged by our progress.
We have made progress and anticipate that sailaway will be achieved in time for first significant changes to some of our processes during the year, production in summer 2016. which should ensure that the business returns to delivering a portfolio of well executed projects with differentiated margins.
Given the difficulties associated with these two projects, the Board spent time in 2015 looking at how we can protect the Company from making the same mistakes again.
Three separate reviews were commissioned: an external independent investigation of the relevant internal controls by KPMG: a review of operational risk management: and an analysis of the risk oversight processes that were in place at the time the projects were initially approved and were applied throughout project execution.
Further details are set out on page 86.
We have since revised our delegated authorities to ensure that the lessons learned are incorporated into our risk management oversight.
Adapting to an ever tougher environment Oil prices continued to decline during 2015 and the consensus is they will remain lower for longer.
We believe we are better positioned than most to come out of the downturn stronger.
Although our IES business does have exposure to the oil price, the bulk of the Groups income comes from National Oil Companies in the Middle East and North Africa MENA which have historically continued to invest throughout the cycle.
We finished 2015 with a record year-end backlog of US$20.7 billion and the pipeline of opportunities for 2016 is robust.
Our initiatives to reduce our cost base, maintain good capital discipline and manage our working capital and cash collection, collectively underpin our business.
The Board supported managements decision to cancel the contract for the construction of the JSD6000 vessel at the ZPMC shipyard in China due to performance issues.
The rest of the contracts for construction of the vessel including the J-Lay tower, heavy-lift crane and other owner-furnished equipment remain in place and we are currently appraising proposals from alternative shipyards to replace the cancelled contract.
Nevertheless the Board has asked management to update its strategic assessment of our offshore strategy in light of the cancellation of the ZPMC contract and it is expected that this assessment will be reviewed in the next few months.
Given the current state of the offshore 12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Related pages Corporate Governance report p68 Directors information p70 oilfield services market, the Board believes it is right to consider People are our most critical asset.
Hence the Board is focused on its options carefully and to devote sufficient time and effort to managing our present and future talent including succession plans, determine the best way forward to maximise shareholder value.
and this matter continues to have the full attention of the Nominations Committee.
This not only includes the identification of potential Progressing to a more balanced portfolio successors at a senior level but also understanding how the Our core ECOM business in MENA continued to perform well and business identifies and develops the next generation of leaders.
we continue to review the IES portfolio.
We are exiting the Ticleni field in Romania and are seeking to migrate our Mexican Production Reflecting on our 2015 financial performance Enhancement Contracts to Production Sharing Contracts to The Group delivered US$9 million in earnings before exceptional help reduce existing and future capital commitments.
We are very items and certain re-measurements attributable to Petrofac pleased to have won project awards during the year for the Lower shareholders.
This clearly falls short of our expectations at the Fars Heavy Oil Development and Manifold Group Trunkline, start of the year.
both in Kuwait, and a further EPCm contract in Oman.
Predominantly reflecting the lower oil price environment, future Maintaining a strong Board for the future anticipated earnings from the IES contract portfolio and the Group The Board aspires to live the Companys values: safe, ethical, innovative, reorganisation, we recognised charges for exceptional items and responsive, quality and cost conscious, and driven to deliver.
certain re-measurements of US$358 million 2014: US$461 million.
This reduced overall Group earnings attributable to shareholders This year, two of our Board meetings took place in the Middle East.
I also took the time to visit our Malaysian offshore operations, whilst all Non-executive Directors are encouraged to gain first-hand At the end of 2015 our net debt was US$686 million 2014: US$733 knowledge of the business.
million and our cash generated from operations was US$827 million 2014: US$790 million.
This is the second year-on-year improvement Following the incorporation of the Board Risk Committee into in cash generated from operations, which is a notable achievement the Audit Committee, the Board increased its direct oversight in light of the substantial losses we incurred on Laggan-Tormore.
of strategic risk and, with the appointment of a new Group Head of Enterprise Risk, the Company further developed its Key Risk I want to thank all Petrofac shareholders for your loyalty.
We Register details of which are set out on page 28. maintained a constructive dialogue throughout the year and the Board is committed to rewarding your trust.
I am delighted that This past year we have had more Board change than anticipated.
we are therefore in a position to maintain the same dividend as Following his appointment as CEO of one of our main competitors, last year and are proposing a final dividend of 43.80 cents per Stefano Cao stepped down as a Director in April.
Then, in the face share, which, if approved, will be paid on 27 May 2016. of a significant increase in her US commitments, Roxanne Decyk retired at the AGM in May.
We thank both of them for their Staying on course in 2016 and beyond contribution to the Board and wish them well for the future.
Risk and crisis management will remain an area of focus.
HSSEIA is always high on our agenda.
Whilst we are not complacent, I am In view of these resignations, we initiated a search for two heartened that for the second successive year we have seen an new Non-executive Directors during 2015.
As a result, we are overall improvement in HSSEIA performance.
Management and delighted to recommend to shareholders the appointments employees should be commended.
of Andrea Abt and George Pierson at our forthcoming AGM.
Meanwhile, the appointment of Matthias Bichsel in May 2015 We remain mindful of the evolving geopolitical situation in some was very well received.
Alongside his deep industry experience, parts of MENA.
We are also aware of the likelihood of increased he brings an all-important client-side perspective.
competitive intensity in our core markets and, to that end, are focused on managing our cost base.
Going forward, I am confident that we will benefit from a strong, multi-disciplinary Board, with a good ratio of , I want to thank all our employees for their commitment Executive Directors.
In particular, I would like to acknowledge our Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari.
He has Developing the right people within the best been relentless in his efforts to restore Petrofac to corporate good organisational structure health.
It is reassuring to see how hard he and his executive team With the move back to Petrofacs core areas of strength, it was are working to deliver our collective commitments and position the logical to reorganise the Company.
Group for sustainable growth over the longer term.
The Board will carry on supporting Ayman and his team as they continue to guide Our strong desire was to see a simple, streamlined organisational Petrofac back to good health in 2016. model, which improves efficiency through fide-layering and centralising back-office functions, yet does nothing to detract from our distinctive, entrepreneurial and delivery focused culture.
In recognition of Rijnhard van Tets the Groups refocus on its core services, Marwan Chedid was Non-executive Chairman promoted to Group Chief Operating Officer from 1 January 2016.
23 February 2016 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 13
