Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement Going from strength to strength Whilst 2015 was an incredibly busy year for Playtech, our operational performance was stronger than ever, delivering reported revenues up 38% and up 26% on an underlying basis.
We have many opportunities for further growth, both organically and through M&A, and have confidence in strong growth in 2016 and beyond Alan Jackson Chairman In 2015 Playtech once again achieved We have a very strong balance sheet Playtech is proud of its track record of an outstanding operational and financial with significant cash balances.
Looking forward we performance, with reported revenues up has always been highly disciplined when see many opportunities to extend this 38% and 26% on an underlying basis.
acquiring businesses and capabilities to record, both organically and through M&A, ensure that they meet stringent criteria.
and have great confidence of continued Our Gaming division continues to go We are currently in live discussions on a success in 2016 and beyond.
from strength-to-strength, founded on number of potential acquisitions in the our pioneering omni-channel offering, our Gaming division.
market leading content and the investment we make every year into R&D to ensure that We also remain committed to returning we not only maintain but also extend our capital to shareholders, as evidenced by lead against the competition.
The second the strong compound growth in our regular Alan Jackson half of 2015 saw several new licensee wins, dividends and the special dividend paid Chairman including Sun Bingo, as well as product following the receipt of proceeds from the launches, including the iconic Top Gun sale of Playtechs stake in William Hill Online.
25 February 2016 slot and Live Prestige Roulette.
Our pipeline Should suitable acquisition opportunities of new licensees, driven by regulated and not be available, consideration will be given soon-to-be-regulated markets, is strong to returning cash to shareholders as we look and we expect significant wins in 2016. to maintain an efficient capital structure.
During the year we created our Financials I was particularly pleased to be able to division with the acquisition of TradeFX strengthen the Board during the year with which was announced in April, since the appointments of Paul Hewitt and John renamed Markets Limited.
Their wealth of experience across disappointing not to be able to complete many complementary industries will prove the subsequently announced acquisitions invaluable to Playtechs growth over the of Plus500 and Ava Trade, Markets Limited coming years.
remains an important acquisition for Playtech, taking us into a high-growth industry Finally, I would like to thank each and with regulated revenues, leveraging our every one of our 5,000 employees who technology infrastructure and existing make Playtech the great success story expertise in CRM and marketing.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their continued support, particularly in supporting our equity fundraising in June.
Playtech is focused on creating value for shareholders and I am delighted to be able to announce an increase of 8% for this years total dividend.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 03
