STRATEGIC REPORT Trading and financial performance I am pleased to announce a good year for Poundland, especially as CHAIRMANS it was our first full year as a public company.
This has been a record year for Poundland with total sales moving over 1 billion for the STATEMENT first time, up 11.4% on the previous year and the total number of 60 Darren Shapland net new stores opened during the year in the UK & Ireland, together with our first stores in Spain, bringing the total estate to 593 at the Chairman year end.
We have a strong pipeline of new stores for the current year.
Our EBIT improved by 10.8% to 44.4 million, whilst our underlying pretax profits increased by 18.6% to 43.7 million.
The strength of this performance, allied to our strong future growth prospects, means that the Board has recommended its first full year dividend payment.
Further details of the Trading Performance are given in the Chief Financial Officers Report beginning on page 18.
Strategy We continued to roll out our strategy as outlined in the prospectus, in terms of store rollout, focus on cash and cash generation and the initial stages of our international pilot in Spain.
We remain focussed on driving towards our 1,000 store target in the UK, our target of 70 stores in Ireland and learning as much as we possibly can about the opportunities to roll out the Dealz format in Europe.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 12 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 We agreed to purchase 99p Stores Ltd for 55 million, conditional the reports from the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration on Competition and Markets Authority permission.
We are now Committee and Governance and Nominations Committee working with them in a Phase 2 review of the acquisition, the beginning on pages 41, 42 and 45 respectively.
We believe these findings of which are due in October.
We are hopeful that we can Non Executives will enhance the diversity of the board and bring proceed with this acquisition because we believe that it would be a independent judgements on issues of strategy and performance as good deal for all of our stakeholders and for the consumer.
This year will see at least another net 60 stores open in the UK & The combined experience and the insight of the Executive Directors, Ireland.
We will also move towards our target for 10 stores in our the Non-Executive Directors and highly talented and experienced trial in Spain, at which point we will carefully assess the financial Executive Team will be invaluable to the Board.
metrics and outlook, before taking a decision on roll out.
Full details of the Directors and their memberships of the Boards The Board and Corporate Governance standing committees can be seen on pages 34 to 35.
I firmly believe that we have a high calibre team of executives, supported by strong, independent non-executives who together Our People form an experienced Board of Directors who will continue to drive I know that I speak for the whole Board when I say that I am the Group to an even more successful future.
immensely proud of our management teams and colleagues across the business whether in our stores, distribution centres or the We have had a number of changes to our non-executive team Customer Support Centre, for the dedication that they have shown over the past 12 months.
I took over as Chairman in July 2014, and continue to show to the Group and the great service that they following the departure of Andrew Higginson, who left with our give to our customers.
best wishes, given his considerable assistance in our flotation in his role as Chairman.
Trevor Bond also departed in September, after Dividend taking up a new role with Johnson & Johnson.
Following these With regard to dividend, as promised in the Prospectus issued to departures, we have appointed Miles Roberts, who is currently prospective Shareholders prior to listing, the Directors announced Group Chief Executive of DS Smith plc.
He has taken on the role the payment of the first dividend to be declared by the Company of Senior Independent Director and is a member of our Audit & with the interim results and this dividend was paid in January 2015.
Risk, Remuneration and Governance & Nominations Committees.
We also appointed Tim Jones, who is the Chief Financial Officer I am pleased to announce that the Directors have recommended at Mitchells and Butlers plc, as an Independent Non-Executive a final dividend of 3.0p, giving a total for the year of 4.5p, which Director and he is the Chairman of our Audit & Risk Committee and represents dividend cover of 3.0 times, in line with our promise in a member of our Remuneration and Governance & Nominations the prospectus to pay a dividend that would be covered between Committee.
2.5 times and 3.5 times by earnings.
Stephen Coates departed in January, after his retirement from Looking Forward Warburg Pincus LLP and more recently, Paul Best also stepped I think that we have had a strong first year as a public company, down from the Board.
After almost five years on the Board, I would delivering our planned opening programme, underlying profits which like to thank both Stephen and Paul for their advice over these were in line with market consensus and good cash generation.
Looking ahead, we will continue to manage the business tightly while investing in clear opportunities for future growth and are In March, we appointed Mary Barnard as Independent Nonconfident in making further progress in the new financial year.
Mary is currently Area President, Northern Europe at Mondelez International Inc. Darren Shapland Full details of the Committees and their duties are contained in Chairman the Corporate Governance Report beginning on page 37 and 18th June 2015 www.
