PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 01 CHAIRMANS LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Creating sustainable value for all Outlook and dividend Dear Shareholder The Groups balance sheet remains strong with a net debt I am pleased to report a solid performance in the year of 1.2x EBITDA at the year-end.
The strength of our balance ended 31May 2015, as well as the completion of several sheet gives us the flexibility to further evolve the Groups strategic initiatives.
portfolio into new areas of growth and to take advantage of new investment opportunities as they arise.
Performance Despite tough trading conditions, particularly in our largest Finally, the Board is pleased to declare a further increase market Nigeria, underlying revenue and operating profit in the full year dividend, marking 42 consecutive years that growth grew 2.3per cent and 2.7per cent respectively, and we have increased our dividend year-on-year.
This sustainable our market share positions were either held or grown in our value for all mind-set is underpinned by a focus on long-term core categories.
growth in earnings per share and tight cash management.
Good governance The following pages discuss in more detail the Boards The Board is committed to principles of good governance, various activities during the year, explaining the different particularly as set out in the Financial Reporting Councils roles of the principal standing committees and how we govern 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
This provides an our business.
effective framework for how the Board should discharge its responsibilities in respect of leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with Shareholders, R J Harvey and how the business is governed through the Audit, Chairman Remuneration, Group Risk, Nomination and CSR Committees.
Board changes During the year James Steel retired from his role as a Non-executive Director.
In his place in September 2014, Professor John Arnold became Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Helen Owers was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
We are pleased to declare a further increase in the full year dividend, marking 42 consecutive years that we have increased our dividend year-on-year.
