08 Chairmans statement Another year of progress Mark Elliott Non-executive Chairman Key highlights At QinetiQ, our most prized possession is trust.
Our leaders are Strong demand for QinetiQs highly differentiated capabilities responsible for ensuring that ethical and responsible business Steve Wadey appointed as CEO an outstanding leader practices are embedded in our culture.
We would like to thank the with a track record of driving growth leadership team for continuing to drive a more open and empowered culture across the Group.
150m share buyback well advanced QinetiQ has many sites distributed across the UK.
We recognise and 17% increase in full year dividend reflecting upgrade at support the important role our employees play in local communities the half year and the Groups progressive dividend policy and their environmental stewardship of those sites.
Maintaining expectations for Group performance in the Along with customers and employees, shareholders are key stakeholders current financial year as the owners of the company.
QinetiQ operates across many platforms and contracts, so we set ourselves the target of providing information Results to shareholders that is timely, clear and concise.
We would like to thank In todays world, where threats to our security are many and varied, our shareholders for their continued support and the time that they demand for QinetiQs highly differentiated capabilities is strong and commit to a constructive dialogue with our Board and executive team.
we are pleased to be able to report another year of progress.
Strategy In the year to 31 March 2015, Group revenue was 763.8m 2014: 782.6m, We are encouraged that the Groups strategy has delivered further and underlying operating profit was 111.3m 2014: 113.7m.
Full year progress this year, with increased demand for the capabilities provided underlying earnings per share were 15.2p 2014: 13.8p.
Total Group by our core businesses and further development of our pipeline of new profit after tax was 104.7m 2014: loss of 12.7m.
Underlying operating opportunities, all underpinned by continued financial discipline.
cash conversion remained strong at 103% 2014: 93% with net cash The sale of US Services, completed in May, was a key step in transforming increasing to 195.5m 31 March 2014: 170.5m.
QinetiQ into a Group that is differentiated by the expertise of its The Board is maintaining its expectations for Group performance in the people and by its innovation, which provides a dynamic source of year to 31 March 2016. potential future revenue streams.
We now have a new leadership team and Proxy Board in North America which is starting to reshape Employees, customers and shareholders our US products business.
The expertise and domain know-how of our people is our key competitive advantage.
We prioritise the safety and development of highly skilled The Group is cash generative and disciplined about capital allocation.
employees because they underpin the relationships with our customers This supports ongoing investment in growth opportunities, a progressive that build mutual trust and deliver unique benefits.
We are pleased dividend policy and the maintenance of the balance sheet strength to report further progress with employee engagement and customer necessary in an uncertain trading environment.
satisfaction scores this year and that we remain committed to customer service excellence.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 09 Dividend and shareholder returns Current Board Committee members The Board proposes a final dividend of 3.6p per share for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: 3.2p, making the full year dividend 5.4p 2014: 4.6p.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, Audit Committee the final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2015 to shareholders Paul Murray, Committee Chairman on the register at 7 August 2015.
The full year dividend represents an Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent increase of 17%, reflecting the Groups progressive dividend policy Michael Harper and upgrade at the half year.
Ian Mason Susan Searle In May 2014, we were pleased to be able to initiate a 150m capital return to shareholders by way of a share buyback.
We believe the Nominations Committee scale of the return reflects the strong cash generative characteristics Mark Elliott, Committee Chairman of the Group, as well as its confidence in its strategy, while taking Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent into account the continuing uncertainty in QinetiQs end markets, Michael Harper its pension obligations and the strength of its working capital Ian Mason position.
By 15 May 2015, the Group had bought back 63 million Paul Murray shares at a cost of 128m.
The Board remains committed to Susan Searle maintaining an efficient balance sheet.
Steve Wadey The Board Remuneration Committee The priorities that I have set for the Board are strategic growth Michael Harper, Committee Chairman balanced with capital discipline, succession planning and to ensure Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent the effective stewardship of QinetiQ through appropriate governance Mark Elliott processes and systems of control.
Good governance is pivotal in the Ian Mason relationship of trust between QinetiQ, its customers, its employees Paul Murray and other key stakeholders.
Susan Searle In June 2014, we announced the appointment of Ian Mason as Non-executive Director and the retirement of Noreen Doyle after Risk & CSR Committee nearly nine years on the Board.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Committee Chairman Mark Elliott On 15 October 2014, Leo Quinn tendered his resignation as CEO of Michael Harper QinetiQ to take up a new role as CEO of Balfour Beatty.
Leo arrived Ian Mason at QinetiQ in 2009 at a difficult point in the Companys history with David Mellors a downturn in defence spending on the horizon.
Under his leadership, Paul Murray QinetiQ has been transformed into the strong, competitive company Susan Searle it is today, and on behalf of the Board, we wish him every success in Steve Wadey his new role.
Following Leos departure, Chief Financial Officer David Mellors Security Committee took over as interim CEO in addition to his existing responsibilities.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Committee Chairman We would also like to place on record the Boards appreciation for Michael Harper Davids outstanding leadership during this period.
Ian Mason David Mellors In January 2015, we were pleased to announce the appointment Paul Murray of Steve Wadey as our new CEO, with effect from 27 April 2015.
Susan Searle We were looking for an outstanding leader with a track record of Steve Wadey driving growth, a deep understanding of the defence industry and the technological know-how to lead QinetiQ in the next stage of our Key governance highlights Organic-Plus strategy.
Steve fits all these criteria and is respected across the MOD and European defence sector: we look forward Continuity in governance structures put in to working with him on the next stage of our strategic journey.
place at the end of 2013, with the Operating Committee overseeing operational management and the Governance Committee overseeing risk management Mark Elliott Non-executive Chairman Continued focus on succession planning, with changes at Executive and Non-executive 21 May 2015 Director level during the year Good working relationship established with the new Proxy Board in the USA following the US restructuring in 2014 Continued focus on strategy and greater measurement of progress against targets Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
P48 Governance Restated to reflect continuing discontinued operations see note 1 to the financial statements on page 97.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
