CHAIRMANS STATEMENT this is randgold resources twentieth annual report and it is a major milestone in the companys remarkable journey over two decades from a small exploration business to the industry leader it is today.
it records a year of significant achievement in the face of considerable challenges.
even at a time of declining gold prices, randgold has continued on its upward path.
Guided by a clear long term strategy, which has been stress-tested over the past three years, the company has met its production and cost targets, setting a new production record in the process.
it has successfully adapted its operations to the challenges of the current market, ensuring that they will generate cash flow at gold prices well below the $1 000 per ounce level.
By carefully balancing its mining plans, it has secured profitable production and cost profiles that extend over the next 10 years and beyond.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 8 Christopher Coleman Randgolds robust performance, and strong cash flows from its mines, have enabled it to continue investing in its future, and its capital programmes remain intact.
There has been no need to postpone or downsize growth projects, no write-down or impairments.
At the end of the year, the company remained debt-free, with more than $200 million in cash on hand.
When Randgold discovers its next world-class gold deposit, it will be able to fund the development of its sixth mine without recourse to the market.
The 2015 average gold price of $1 152 oz was down 9% on the previous year and this inevitably had an impact on the companys profit.
The board is nevertheless confident about Randgolds ability to continue delivering value and so it has recommended a 10% increase in the annual dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting.
It is worth noting that during the year, the Randgold share price again outperformed the gold index while many gold companies were trading at pre-2005 levels.
resettlements and government negotiations in Africas IMPACT OF PARTNERSHIPS ever-dynamic environment.
Last August Randgold celebrated its twentieth anniversary when I had the pleasure of talking to SUSTAINABILITY IS CENTRAL some of the people past and present managers, As detailed in the sustainability report on pages investors, advisors, business associates and other 98 to 157 of this annual report, Randgolds social partners who have played a part in the companys initiatives extend far beyond the life of its mines.
I was struck by the impact Randgolds At all its operations, it is developing ambitious legacy philosophy of partnership has had not only on its projects designed to provide a permanent source business but also on those it has come into contact of employment and economic opportunity to these with individuals, communities, companies and communities.
Based on agriculture, the primary countries.
building block of any developing economy, these range from training and funding would-be commercial The key component of this philosophy is Randgolds farmers to a wide spectrum of agribusiness initiatives, belief that the value it creates should benefit all many of which are already supplying local markets.
those who are involved in or affected by its activities, The company is equally mindful of the health and broadly described as stakeholders, and not just safety of its employees, and it strives constantly to its shareholders.
This is a moral and commercial improve an already exemplary record in this regard.
principle, particularly in Africa, where the company operates in some of the worlds poorest countries Corporate and social responsibility is often regarded and in remote regions where subsistence farming has as an onerous obligation.
To Randgold, however, traditionally been the main economic activity.
sustainability is central to all its activities, and it is significant that, even in the current market environment, Randgold has significantly enhanced the quality of life it is not reducing its investment in these programmes.
of the communities around its mines by establishing healthcare and education facilities, improving the In line with our policy of having at least one board infrastructure and providing such basics as potable meeting a year at a mine, the directors met at water.
It led the mining industrys contribution to the Kibali in February 2016.
These meetings provide a campaign against the Ebola epidemic and continues regular opportunity for board members to engage the fight against malaria and HIV Aids.
The social licence it has earned enabled it to successfully with managers and gain a first-hand insight into navigate the complexities of civil strife, mass the operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 9 ShARE PRicE PERfORmANcE ANd gOLd PRicE Share price Gold price $ oz 100 1 600 90 1 500 80 1 400 70 1 300 60 1 200 50 1 100 40 1 000 30 900 20 800 10 700 0 600 During the year under review Jamil Kassum and RANDGOLDS EXCEPTIONALISM Andy Quinn took over as chairmen of the audit We were very impressed with what is being achieved committee and remuneration committee respectively at Kibali, where one of the worlds great gold mines in line with our succession planning.
They succeeded is taking shape.
Kibali beat its production target for Karl Voltaire and Norborne Cole, who will be retiring the year while keeping its underground development from the board during 2016. ahead of schedule, and its success showcases the qualities which make Randgold exceptional: I thank my colleagues on the board for the a long term vision combined with strict commercial contribution they made to Randgolds success in criteria: the exploration expertise which doubled the 2015, and I commend Mark Bristow and his team for size of the original deposit: the execution of major continuing to demonstrate the vision and commitment capital projects on time and budget: and operational which continue to deliver superior results.
And even at this early stage, it has significantly advanced its partnership development and sustainability initiatives.
The composition of the board is regularly reviewed to ensure that it has the appropriate balance of international business acumen, industry knowledge and emerging markets experience.
The directors biographies on page 18 and 19 of this annual report, attest to the wide ranging skills that they contribute to christopher coleman the board and the company.
Chairman Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10 Jan 15 Feb 14 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Share price $ NASDAQ: GOLD Share price LSE: RRS Gol rice d p ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 11
