Strategic report Chairmans letter We are Improving bus iness performance a net bene t of 4.7m, which, along with Taxation Dear shareholder improvements across all brands, led to From 30 June 2014, bingo duty was Strategy a 9% growth in EBITDA to 126.3m.
reduced from 20% to 10% and resulted In August 2014, Ranks chief executive, in a 11.3m tax reduction in the year.
Henry Birch, set out the Groups strategy Cash ow remains strong and we This duty cut funded a reduction to create long-term sustainable growth ended the year with net debt 61% in prices to our customers, the for the Group and its shareholders lower at 52.9m.
recommencement of a venues through the following five pillars: refurbishment programme and an Operating responsibly 1.
Create a compelling increase in Meccas capital investments The Rank board is fully committed to in product and technology.
multi-channel offer: upholding the licensing objectives, as set 2.
Build a strong digital capability: out in the Gambling Act 2005, with the From 1 December 2014, RGD at 15% was 3.
Invest in our brands and marketing: aim of ensuring that all our customers applied to all online gambling revenue enjoy our products responsibly.
Continue to develop our venues: and generated by customers in the UK.
The Following two speci c cases, the UK 5.
Harness technology to improve our cost to the Group in the year was 6.6m.
Gambling Commission brought to our customer experience and drive VAT claims attention fide ciencies in the application operating ef ciency.
Following the Court of Appeal decision of our policies and procedures relating The Group has made signi cant progress regarding claims for overpaid VAT on to anti-money laundering and responsible certain types of amusement machines, towards its strategic objectives and has gambling.
We are taking remedial actions delivered a very strong operating Rank applied for leave to appeal to and have commissioned an externally The Supreme Court.
Rank was granted performance across all the brands.
led review of our responsible gambling More detail of progress made in 2014 15 permission and the appeal was heard and anti-money laundering controls to on 21 April 2015.
On 8 July 2015, The is outlined on pages 25 to 31. provide us with further assurance that Supreme Court issued their decision in Financial performance we are taking appropriate steps in these favour of HMRC, which concludes this The Group has performed strongly in areas.
We will continue to aim for the line of litigation.
Rank repaid 25.2m of the year, with every brand improving highest standards, in keeping with our the 30.7m received in connection with its pro tability on a like-for-like basis.
commitment to upholding the these claims to HMRC in May 2014 and I am particularly delighted that H2 licensing objectives.
has fully provided for the remainder.
As a saw an improvement on H1 despite the consequence, the decision has no impact National living wage headwind from the imposition of Remote on Ranks financial performance or The introduction of the national living Gaming Duty RGD from 1 December balance sheet strength in 2014 15 wage will impact the last quarter of 2014.
Overall revenue was up 4% to or future periods.
In common with other leisure 738.3m, with a like-for-like stabilisation operators, the Group has a number in our Mecca venues and strong growth Listing Rules of employees who will bene t from in our brand digital channels ahead of On 7 July 2014 the Company made its introduction.
This will result in the implementation of the new digital a formal submission to the UK Listing additional operating costs but the platform.
The reduction in bingo duty Authority UKLA requesting it to to 10% offset the introduction of RGD at Group believes a majority of these modify LR 6.1.
19 R, so that it could 15% during the year and has resulted in can be mitigated over time.
continue to be a premium listed 6 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 More information The boar d and I would like to thank Operating responsibly 33 all of the Groups 11,000 employees Governance 45 for their endless enthusiasm, hard work and commitment.
company with a slightly lower free oat Management incentivisation is recommending a final dividend of On 22 April 2015, a general meeting 4.00 pence per share to be paid on percentage than 25%.
On 27 August was held at which two resolutions were 21 October 2015 to shareholders on the 2014 the UKLA formally agreed to register at 11 September 2015.
19 R to accept a free put to the Companys shareholders for consideration and approval.
The first was take the full year dividend to 5.60 pence oat of 23%.
per share, a 24% increase on last year.
regarding proposed amendments to the On 18 February 2015, GuoLine Overseas Groups long-term incentive plan for its The Groups dividend cover has as a Limited GuoLine, a subsidiary of result reduced to 2.6 times from 2.8 employees and executive directors and Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad further details can be found on pages times in the prior year.
Hong Leong, sold 50 million ordinary 64 to 65.
The second resolution was Finally, the board and I would like shares in Rank, thereby reducing Hong regarding proposed amendments to to thank all of the Groups 11,000 Leongs interest in Ranks shares to the directors remuneration policy.
Both employees for their endless enthusiasm, approximately 56.09%.
As a result the resolutions proposed were approved by hard work and commitment.
I am always Group now has a free oat of greater the Companys shareholders and further impressed by how each member of staff than 25% and is no longer in breach detail can be found on the Companys strives to provide the best customer of LR 6.1.
com en experience and I am delighted that their investors shareholder-centre Management team changes efforts are recognised in improved shareholder-meetings.
On 23 September 2014, Colin Colebusiness performance.
Johnson joined Rank as group director of Board Current trading and outlook digital and cross-channel services.
Colin On 1 June 2015, Chris Bell joined Ranks Trading in the short seven-week period has over 15 years international digital board as a senior independent director to 16 August 2015 has continued in line gaming experience and is responsible for and will also serve on Ranks audit with the trends seen in 2014 15 and is the integration and delivery of Ranks committee.
Chris brings with him in line with managements expectations.
extensive experience of the gambling multi-channel offer.
industry and considerable corporate Rank remains in a strong financial During 2014 15, Phil Urban left the experience and is an excellent addition position, possesses market leading Group after serving six years as managing to the board.
brands and has a clear strategy for director of Grosvenor Casinos and has long-term growth.
On 1 September 2015, Susan Hooper will been succeeded by Mark Jones formerly join our board and she will seek election managing director of Mecca.
Ian Burke, Chairman by shareholders at our forthcoming On 5 January 2015, Martin Pugh joined 19 August 2015 annual general meeting on 15 October Rank as managing director of Mecca.
Details of her background and Martin has a wealth of experience in experience can be found in our notice of marketing, gambling and multi-site annual general meeting.
Shaa Wasmund leisure, having previously run Virgin will not be seeking re-election at our Active UK and Camelots UK business.
annual general meeting and I would like to take this opportunity to thank her for On 9 September 2015, Paul Richardson her contribution to the board.
will join the Groups management team as group director of strategy and Dividend corporate development.
Paul is a former The board targets a progressive and investment banker and corporate lawyer, sustainable dividend.
This dividend policy who has worked both in an advisory re ects the strong cash ow characteristics and management capacity in the gaming and long-term earnings potential of sector.
Most recently he was a senior vice the Group, whilst allowing it to retain suf cient capital to fund ongoing president of international development operating requirements, investment and at Galaxy Entertainment Group, one of balance sheet management.
The board the largest casino operators in Macau.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 7
