Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Chairman's statement 3 Chairmans statement Adjusted cash flow conversion was 94%, down from 96% in 2014, with capital expenditure at 5.1% of revenues.
Share buybacks During the year, we bought back shares worth 500m.
In 2016, we intend to deploy a total of 700m on share buybacks.
By February, 100m of this years total had already been completed, leaving a further 600m to be deployed during the year.
Corporate structure and corporate entity names Following approval at the Annual General Meetings of the parent companies in April, we simplified the corporate structure and changed the names of the companies.
On 1 July, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV changed their names to RELX PLC and RELX NV respectively.
At the same time, the Reed Elsevier R shares, through which Reed Elsevier PLC helda 5.8% indirect interest in Reed Elsevier NV, were cancelled.
RELX PLC and RELX NV now have 52.9% and 47.1% direct equity Anthony Habgood Chairman interests in RELX Group plc respectively.
The equalisation ratio between RELX PLC and RELX NV shares was adjusted such that one ordinary share of RELX PLC now RELX Group continued to execute confers equivalent economic interests to one ordinary share of well on its financial and strategic RELX NV.
Both ADRs were adjusted as well such that one ADR represents one ordinary share in the respective parent company.
During the year, These measures simplified our structure, clarified the economic interest of parent company shareholders, and increased we simplified our corporate transparency to shareholders.
They also allow us to produce consolidated accounts for the first time.
The shorter, more structure, increased transparency modern name reflects the transformation of the company to atechnology, content and analytics driven business while to shareholders and changed maintaining the link with its proud heritage.
Board alignment and succession After simplifying our corporate structure, we aligned membership Growth of underlying revenues was 3%.
Underlying adjusted of the Boards by appointing Marike van Lier Lels as a Non-Executive operating profits grew 5%, with the improvement in profitability Director of RELX PLC and RELX Group plc.
Marike has served as a reflecting a combination of underlying revenue growth, process Non-Executive Director of RELX NV since 2010. innovation and portfolio development.
Adjusted operating profits We continue the process of progressively refreshing the Boards.
increased 5% to 1,822m expressed in sterling, and increased Lisa Hook and Robert Polet will retire as Non-Executive Directors 17% to 2,514m expressed in euros.
after 10 and 9 years of service respectively following the AGMs Adjusted earnings per share grew 7% to 60.5p for RELX PLC, inApril 2016.
After a search by external consultants, Carol Mills and 20% to 0.835 for RELX NV.
Reported earnings per share and Robert MacLeod will join the Boards in April 2016, subject to increased 8% to 46.4p for RELX PLC, and 20% to 0.682 for shareholder approval.
Carol has nearly 30 years' experience in RELX NV.
technology companies including extensive US Board experience.
Robert is Chief Executive Officer of Johnson Matthey, the FTSE100 Dividends speciality chemicals company and global leader in sustainable The Boards are recommending final dividends of 22.3p for RELX PLC technologies.
I would like to thank Lisa and Robert fortheir and 0.288 for RELX NV, up respectively 17% and 1% against the adviceand help over many years and welcome Carol andRobert prior year.
This brings the total dividends for the year to 29.7p for toRELX Group.
The differing growth rates for the two parent companies reflect movements in Corporate responsibility the sterling-euro exchange rate between dividend announcement Good governance is critical to our business.
As the foundation for dates and, for the final dividends, the abolition of the tax credit all we do, it is central to our corporate responsibility and future applicable to UK dividends as announced by the UK government and success.
Accordingly, we set and meet relevant objectives, effective from April 2016.
As a result, future dividends will be the including in 2015, new communication campaigns to ensure that employees at RELX Group understand our compliance policies same value for each RELX PLC and RELX NV share, removing the and what they mean in action.
In the year ahead, aligned with our one remaining difference between the economics of the two shares.
focus on data privacy and security, we will develop plans to Balance sheet address impending EU General Data Protection Regulations.
Net debt was 3.8bn 5.1bn on 31 December 2015, compared Anthony Habgood with3.5bn 4.6bn last year.
Net debt EBITDA on a pensions and Chairman lease adjusted basis for 2015 was 2.2x, down from 2.3x last year: and on an unadjusted basis, it was 1.8x, up from 1.7x last year.
