Chairmans statement Another year of substantial development During the period, Group revenues I would like to thank our former CFO, grew to 1,927.0m 2014: 1,676.1m, Dominique Yates, for his contribution to representing an increase of 15.9% at Regus.
He leaves us with our balance sheet constant currency up 15.0% at actual and financial returns looking strong after a rates.
Notwithstanding the significant period of significant expansion.
I would also growth in the network, underlying operating like to thank Alex Sulkowski, who retired from profit advanced 37% at constant currency the Board in May 2015, for his contribution to to 144.8m 2014: 104.3m, up 39% at the Board and Group.
Including the non-recurring An external evaluation of the performance of gain of 15.3m, our reported statutory the Board was carried out during the year by operating profit was 160.1m, an increase an independent leadership consultancy.
The of 51% at constant currency.
results of the review have been incorporated This strong performance has been delivered into our efforts to continuously improve the whilst adding 554 new locations to our processes and effectiveness of the Board.
network and continuing to drive operating The Group has completed Our people efficiency, with overheads as a percentage Every year, our success is attributable to the another year of successfully of revenue reducing by a further two energy, commitment and skills of our people percentage points.
Our strong cash implementing its strategy as in all the markets where we operate and at generation and disciplined approach every level of the organisation.
Once again, evidenced by delivering both to investment in growth have also enabled I would like to thank them on behalf of the strong results and growth.
the Group to maintain a robust and Board for their outstanding contribution, conservative capital structure.
We continue to significantly delivering another strong set of results for Rigorous risk management the benefit of our customers, our business expand the network with We continue to take a rigorous approach and our investors.
convenient locations and to risk management across every aspect Dividend of our business.
A good illustration of this innovative formats for our We remain committed to a sustainable is the process we go through to ensure that and progressive dividend policy.
I am customers, while maintaining our new locations deliver the challenging therefore pleased to announce that the financial returns that we seek.
Every single attractive financial returns.
Board is recommending a 13% increase locality goes through a detailed process in the final dividend to 3.1p per share, Douglas Sutherland before approval, comparing its anticipated reflecting the continued strong performance Chairman performance against what is being achieved of the business.
Subject to the approval in comparable locations, the competitive of shareholders at the 2015 AGM, this environment and considering the maximum will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders cash outlay and downside risk just as much on the register at the close of business as upside potential and returns.
The full year dividend Our investment in growth is kept under is 4.5p 2014: 4.0p, an increase of 13%.
constant review and can be curtailed within a short period if market conditions dictate.
Douglas Sutherland Over time, we are taking an increasingly capital-light approach to investment, Chairman in which we will increasingly become the facilitator between the property investor 1 March 2016 and the end customer, with the aim of further improving margins and reducing risk.
Board update We welcomed Dominik fide Daniel, our new CFO and COO, to our international management team and Board in November 2015 and look forward to his input as we continue to deliver on our growth ambitions.
He is a proven and capable leader who brings very relevant experience to Regus finance and operations teams.
In May 2015 we welcomed Franois Pauly to the Board as a new Independent Non-Executive Director.
Franois extensive executive and board experience along with his international business knowledge is already contributing to the continued strategic development of Regus.
12 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
