Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5 Chairmans Introduction Dear Fellow Shareholder Board Changes During 2015 we have Although there have been no changes in the membership of the Board this year, Peter Bamford will step down as a Non-executive Director at the continued to execute our conclusion of the AGM on 11 May 2016 after nine years on the Board.
differentiated strategy I would like to thank Peter for his significant contribution to the Company over this period and to wish him the very best for the future.
Board to drive profitable growth succession will remain an important topic in 2016 and beyond as other senior Board members step down.
We will look to enhance the Board by with both focus and pace.
progressively adding new, diverse skills and experience, to reflect and support the current and developing shape of the business, notably its This strategy is centred on international scope and scale.
To that end, as described in the Nomination delivering medium-term Committee section on page 62, we have expanded the membership of that Committee to ensure that all Non-executive Directors contribute to improvements in revenue this important responsibility.
and profit and a sustainable Our shareholders, customers and colleagues continue to give strong support to Rentokil Initial and we thank them for their ongoing trust and improvement in free loyalty.
We are fully cognisant of our fiduciary responsibility to all shareholders and the need to act with the highest standards of integrity cash flow.
We remain committed and motivated to both as we develop the business.
If you are able to attend the AGM, I look forward to The differentiated quadrant-based strategy is working well, and we have seeing you in May.
In the meantime we are keen to engage with taken further steps in shifting our portfolio towards higher growth shareholders and other stakeholders and would welcome your feedback businesses and geographies.
The significant acquisition of Steritech on this Annual Report.
com and let enhances the quality and scale of our presence in the key Growth market us know what you think.
in North America: whereas our Manage for Value quadrant now represents just 3% of our revenue, down from 35% in 2013.
We have continued to People experience challenging economic conditions and disappointing In 2015 we have welcomed into Rentokil Initial new colleagues through performance in our businesses in France and Benelux, but have a clear the many good businesses we have acquired and through the ongoing improvement plan being implemented.
Further details can be found on process of improving the capability and efficiency of the group.
Overall, however, I am pleased to say that the business like to thank all our colleagues who have put in a huge effort over the last continues to improve in quality and performance, and has a strong and year to meet the needs of our customers as well as helping to deliver our settled executive team in place to deliver the next phase of our strategy.
We continue to invest heavily in developing and Based on the encouraging progress in 2015 and as a reflection of our maintaining our colleagues expertise, and I was pleased to see impressive confidence for 2016, the Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend colleague participation in learning and development programmes during 2015.
Full details can be found on page 38 and in our2015 Corporate of 2.06p per share, an increase of 13.1% year on year.
Alignment with Shareholders Yours faithfully As described in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 64, we have reviewed our remuneration arrangements to simplify the incentives for Executive Directors and to improve their alignment with the interests of shareholders.
We conducted a thorough consultation with shareholders as part of this review and were pleased with the strong and supportive engagement we received.
John McAdam Chairman 24 February 2016 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 6 We are confident of delivering further value for shareholders as we enter the Next Phase in the execution of our strategy.
Andy Ransom, Chief Executive Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
