02 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE YEAR IN REVIEW On 19 February 2015, the boards of Ball Corporation Ball 2015 was another year of challenging global trading conditions but the business and Rexam announced they had reached agreement on the performed well and we saw volume growth terms of a recommended cash and share offer for Rexam.
across all our regions except North America.
Like many other UK based global companies One year on, we remain convinced that the alliance of we continued to be impacted by foreign exchange translation as well as other external Ball and Rexam represents a compelling opportunity for headwinds such as higher energy costs in our stakeholders and a strong cultural fit between our Brazil.
After taking into account the impact of these headwinds and our focused approach two companies.
to cost control Rexams profits for the year were in line with our expectations.
The full report of our performance is on pages 30 to 36.
In many respects, 2015 was therefore an unusual year, BALL CORPORATION but we have fully maintained our focus and continued Rexams board remains firmly supportive of the Ball offer, which is proceeding on track.
to invest in, and drive value at Rexam, concentrating During the year we worked hard to support on business as usual whilst the regulatory clearances Ball and provide the information required by regulators for the ongoing anti trust clearance around the Ball offer have been progressing.
This has inevitably taken up significant management time, but we have stayed focused on our strategic priorities and have continued to operate as a successful independent company.
Upon final regulatory clearances being obtained the Ball offer will be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under the UK Companies Act, which requires the approval of Rexam shareholders and the sanction of the scheme by the Court.
Shareholders will be sent a copy of the scheme document, which sets out the terms of the Ball offer, and will be asked to vote on the scheme of arrangement.
Completion of the transaction is expected towards the end of the first half of 2016, subject to Rexam shareholder approval, the sanction of the Court and final regulatory clearances.
RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS Returns to shareholders are an established priority for Rexam and the dividend is a core element of total shareholder returns.
The board has declared a final dividend of 11.9p 2014: 11.9p per share consistent with the terms of the Ball offer requiring that future dividends would not exceed the corresponding interim or final dividend paid or declared in respect of 2014.
The final dividend will be paid on 6 May 2016 to holders of shares registered on 8 April 2016.
This final dividend for 2015 will be paid whether or not the Ball offer completes.
The final dividend in respect of the six months to 31 December 2015 has been declared by the board as a second interim dividend in accordance with the Companys articles of association and does not require shareholder approval.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 03 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE During the year an evaluation of the board and its committees was carried out.
The findings We continued with our strategy of investing with discipline in key projects to best meet were discussed in December.
The board believes that it has been effective in carrying customer demand and generate value and the investments of recent years have also started out its duties in 2015 and that each individual director has been effective in board related to bear fruit.
November saw the opening on time and on budget of our innovative new matters.
The board agreed in its discussions to focus on certain areas over the coming year plant at Widnau in Switzerland which has been built to support growth in the energy to improve its effectiveness in 2016 and these are outlined in more detail in the Governance drinks segment.
Our commitment to invest for the long term was highlighted by the section of this report.
See page 37. announcement in February 2015 of our intention to expand Rexams operations in OUR PEOPLE I have been particularly impressed by the way India by building a second plant in Sri City.
Rexams 8,600 employees around the world have maintained their focus and delivered a SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Safety remains a critical priority for Rexam good result despite the inevitable uncertainty the Ball offer has brought.
They are a credit to and one the board follows closely.
Despite the effort put in across the business on safety the Company and I congratulate and thank them for their significant contribution in our main safety measures remained consistent with 2014.
We can nevertheless take comfort demanding circumstances.
from the fact that the number of life changing I would also like to pay tribute to our chief incidents were down 50% on 2014.
We have executive Graham Chipchase and the executive also worked hard to embed sustainability right leadership team, who have led our business across Rexam: this year we were particularly strongly through a busy and challenging year.
proud of our progress in lightweighting taking out over 9,000 tonnes of aluminium and our THE FUTURE reduction in energy and carbon intensity at 4%.
Our customers are global businesses and they We also continued to support our customers want to deal with sophisticated international in their own sustainability endeavours.
suppliers that match their global reach and needs.
This is what the proposed combination CORPORATE GOVERNANCE with Ball will create.
The potential alliance of The board sets the tone for Rexam through two established leaders in the metal packaging its conduct, its definition of success and its business represents a major strategic industry attitude to the assessment of risk and ethical development, creating an enhanced global matters.
As the chairman, I am responsible for packaging company capable of delivering promoting good governance, which is essential a best in class offering across the globe.
to ensuring that we remain both successful and sustainable.
We have stayed true to our core Rexam today is in great shape, both strategically and operationally.
It is a stronger, more values and continue to uphold and practise effective governance and risk management.
confident and more focused business than it was six years ago, delivering higher returns.
A key strength of Rexams board lies in its breadth of skills, experience, gender and As Rexam heads towards a probable new nationality and our discussions this year future I take great pride in having served as have benefited from this diversity.
I have been chairman of a business that has established extremely well supported by the members of itself as a global leader, whilst remaining the board and am grateful to them all for their wholeheartedly committed to its stakeholders.
valuable contributions to our discussions.
There were no changes to the composition of the board in 2015.
However, in July, our finance director, David Robbie, was granted a leave of absence on medical grounds.
He has all Stuart Chambers our very best wishes for a swift and complete Chairman recovery.
In the meantime, director of group planning and finance, Kath Kearney-Croft, 18 February 2016 has been supporting the board in the role of acting finance director.
Kath has been with Rexam for eight years and was commercial and strategic planning director in our European business before moving to the Groups head office in 2013.
