Strategic report | Chairmans statement Scott Forbes Chairman I am pleased to present Rightmove plcs results for the year demand.
Last year we attracted 200 million more consumer ended 31 December 2015. visits than the previous year and generated a record 50 million As we report on our 15th consecutive year of growth, leads for our customers.
Rightmoves popularity is showing Id like to pick up on a theme raised in the Strategic Report: no signs of letting up and we have already set new site traf c Doing the right thing.
This uncompromising principle records this January.
supports the ethos of the Group.
The philosophy drives our Our customers have also bene tted from a continuous high achieving network business and what we do for our trade roll-out of additional advertising products to reach their customers on one side of the network and our web and audience of home sellers, landlords and home hunters.
mobile visiting consumers on the other side.
It also extends to There is a wide range of choice and discretion to shape our focus and behaviours towards all stakeholders including and reinforce brand identity on Rightmove to compete for our investors, analysts, employees and our Board.
There is also an increasing range The teams relentless focus and sensitive examination of of valuable tools, support and data available to our customers our consumer experience has been the catalyst for continual to assist them to operate their businesses more effectively improvements to site navigation and design.
simplicity of use and an engaging experience.
Of course Since Rightmoves strategy does not depend on capital our site traf c is in part a natural consequence of the best expenditure or M&A, the Board has a policy of distributing all consumer proposition in the market, with almost 50% more of its free cash ow each year.
In fact, Rightmove has returned listings than any other UK property portal, but it is in the main all of its free cash ow since inception, totalling nearly 600m, driven by the huge trust built up in our brand over the past 15 through a combination of increased dividends and share years.
The team works diligently to maintain a site that delivers buybacks.
Our shareholders bene t from a predictable the desired information when it is wanted and in the form it is business model that is buoyed by our growing market wanted and we achieved an enviable 99.997% level of site leadership, together with clear and refreshingly candid availability last year.
Our nearly 20,000 customers have bene ted from our Once again, the Board and I are grateful for the con dence ever-growing popularity with the British home moving public.
and support of all our customers and for the talent and We have delivered 15 consecutive years of site traf c growth dedication of our employees.
Together their efforts have for our customers and have been consistently ranked in the positioned Rightmove as the essential marketplace for home top ten sites in the UK irrespective of cyclical housing hunters to nd their next home and for property advertisers to reach by far the widest possible audience.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rightmoves popularity is showing no signs of letting up and we have already set new traf c records this January.
Financial results Corporate governance The strength of our business model and core value One of the Boards responsibilities is ensuring that the Group proposition underpin record financial results in 2015. applies good governance to facilitate effective management of 1 Underlying operating pro t was up 16% to 144.3m a high growth business.
As the Companys Chairman I am 2014: 124.6m driven by strong organic revenue growth of pleased to note that the Group is continuing to foster an 15% to 192.1m 2014: 167.0m and continued focus on environment of entrepreneurial leadership and innovation in a 2 cost control.
Underlying basic earnings per share EPS framework of responsible governance and risk management was up 21% to 121.4p 2014: 100.3p, even greater than as set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 26 the percentage increase in pro ts and in part attributable to to 37.
76.1m of share buybacks as part of our policy of returning cash to shareholders.
Board changes Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar both retired from the Returns to shareholders Board at the Groups Annual General Meeting in May 2015 Our commitment to return excess cash promptly to investors after nine years of service.
On behalf of the entire Board, continues to be as strong as ever.
Cash conversion remains in I would like to thank them both for their substantial excess of 100% of operating pro t. In 2015, we returned a contributions to the Group, and wish them every success.
further 112.5m 2014: 103.4m to shareholders through Peter Williams has ably replaced Jonathan Agnew as dividends and share buybacks.
Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Dividend The Board previously announced that it would increase the Outlook interim dividend to 16.0p H1 2014: 13.0p per ordinary share, Our results for 2015 show us continuing to outperform which was paid on 6 November 2015.
Based upon strong customer numbers and policy of increasing the total dividend for the year broadly in traf c, and healthy growth in average spend per advertiser at line with earnings, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend the start of the year, the Board remains con dent of continued of 27.0p 2014: 22.0p per ordinary share for a total dividend success in 2016. for the year of 43.0p 2014: 35.0p, an increase of 23%.
The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 3 June 2016 to all shareholders on the register on 6 May 2016.
Scott Forbes Chairman 1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
