Chairmans letter Against this backdrop, prices for several more than 21 per cent in our emissions Dear shareholders, commodities are at levels not seen since 2005 intensity, exceeding the targets we set.
We Last year I noted that in times of challenging or only briefly at the depth of the global have extended our GHG emissions intensity markets, investors sought strength financial crisis.
24 per cent reduction from our 2008 baseline.
The economic environment represented It is pleasing to report that during 2015 your For the long term, we are committed to significant challenges for industry margins company has displayed such qualities and significantly decarbonising our business by during the year and this is likely to persist delivered a solid performance, despite an 2050 and making our businesses and projects in 2016. exceptional level of economic volatility.
resilient to climate change impacts.
To drive The continued deterioration in the macro this internally, we are building climate change Returns to shareholders environment has generated widespread market related metrics into our planning, risk and The strength of the companys performance uncertainty.
Global economic growth was investment decisions.
gave the board the confidence to announce, in subdued last year and reflected a deepening February 2016, a 2015 full year dividend of Societys expectations are increasing, both in of the cyclical downturn in most 215 US cents per share.
In 2015, we returned terms of the visibility of our public promises and commodity markets.
US$6.1 billion to our shareholders, through a the transparency of our local actions.
In light of Even before the recent challenges, we took combination of dividend payments and the restructuring occurring across the extractive measures to reshape Rio Tinto a plan that has buy-backs.
sector, some of our stakeholders may question deliveredresults.
Thisisasignificant the value of our industry and the role we play.
Over the last five years we have returned more achievement for Sam Walsh and his team, but But when you consider that in the five years to than US$25 billion to our shareholders, .
the end of 2015, Rio Tintos direct economic underlining our commitment to The year ahead will be challenging for our a contribution has exceeded US$265 billion, shareholder returns.
industry and we are taking further pre-emptive .
We However, with the continuing uncertain market action to ensure the companys ongoing also lead our industry in tax transparency, outlook, the board has determined that strength.
We will continue to run the business through the publication since 2010 of our maintaining the progressive dividend policy with the long-term interests of you, our annual Taxes paid report.
acted against shareholders Active governance Strength in turbulent times long-term interests.
In May 2015, Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick In 2015, your company achieved underlying We have therefore replaced the progressive stepped down as non-executive directors after earnings of US$4.5 billion and operating cash dividend policy with an approach that will allow many years of significant service on the board.
Our underlying earnings the distribution of returns to better reflect the In May 2016, Richard Goodmanson will retire were US$4.8 billion lower than in 2014 due to the companys position and outlook.
from the board after 11 years.
I am very significant impact of reduced commodity prices.
We recognise that this decision may disappoint grateful to them all for their considerable This impact was partly offset by managements some of our shareholders but we believe our contribution and tremendous commitment to drive to significantly reduce cash costs and new dividend policy better reflects the cyclical Rio Tinto over many years.
improve productivity at all of our businesses.
For 2016, we intend that A key role of the board is to ensure adherence The net loss of US$0.9 billion reflects non-cash the full year dividend will be no less than to the companys strategy and plan for future exchange rate and derivative losses of 110 US cents per share.
 US$3.3 billion, and impairment charges of Our goal is to maintain balance sheet strength two of our world-class businesses in 2015 to US$1.8 billion.
The impairments mainly relate and deliver shareholder returns through the get a first-hand view of the companys assets to the Simandou iron ore project, Energy cycle.
We believe the quality of our assets and people: our modernised aluminium Resources of Australia and the Roughrider provides a sound base for future returns.
smelter at Kitimat in British Columbia, Canada, uranium project.
and our bauxite operations at Weipa in Our public and community role These results reflect continued investment Queensland, Australia.
Over the past year, considerable action has over many decades in long-life, low-cost, taken place to reduce trade barriers, lift expandable operations in the most attractive Moving forward with confidence people from poverty and protect the industry sectors.
This strategy ensures that Despite the uncertain conditions that we environment.
As a leading global company, Rio Tinto owns the best assets for delivering currently face, the long-term outlook for our Rio Tinto has publicly engaged in long-term value.
At a time of significant sector remains positive.
industry change and curtailments, your Inthenext15years, theworldspopulation company has the resilience and strength to During 2015 we were an active participant in will increase by more than one billion people continue to progress world-class growth the business community advisory group to and almost half a billion people in China, projects in bauxite, copper and iron ore. G20 leaders, providing a business perspective India and the Association of Southeast Asian on drivers for economic growth and supporting Global growth Nations ASEAN region will move from rural to public policy that advances sustainable The slowdown in emerging markets limited urban environments.
global growth to around three per cent in 2015.
 In October, the Trans-Pacific Partnership TPP The impact on commodity demand was much andmetalsweproduce, asessential was secured after seven years of negotiations stronger, led by a further deterioration in key ingredients of modern life.
among 12 countries in the growing metal-intensive sectors in China.
I would like to congratulate our diverse team of Pacific region.
The TPP promises to Chinas gross domestic product GDP talented employees around the world.
Without open markets in the region and secure the growth slowed moderately to just below seven their enthusiasm and commitment to integrity rules-based trading system upon which per cent, as the transition to its New Normal we would not be the strong values-driven companies like Rio Tinto and our was further impacted by the industrial cycle.
On behalf of the board, thank customers depend.
Consumption supported the economy but you for your continued support.
In December, during the annual Conference of investment and exports weighed on growth.
Parties 21 COP21, a global agreement was In particular, the slowing growth of Chinas reached to address climate change.
Rio Tinto construction and industrial sectors, as the signed the Paris Pledge for Action to reduce transition to a service-based economy takes greenhouse gas emissions, which is a further place, has negatively impacted example of our commitment to be part of the commodity demand.
The US Federal Reserves first interest rate hike since the financial crisis has been Central to this, we set quantified emissions interpreted as a sign that the US economy intensity reduction goals.
Over the last Jan du Plessis continued to strengthen in 2015.
Consumer  Chairman demand is strong but growth momentum was dampened by the impact of lower oil prices.
