Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 03 View from the Chairman Overview of the Year Hong Kong based Ace Corporation in June 2014.
Ilona decided reluctantly that it was no longer This acquisition provides the Group with a high possible for her to provide the necessary time Sales for continuing businesses grew to 1,222m 1 quality platform for growth in Asia, specifically to fulfil her duties as a non-executive director of 2014: 1,047m, adjusted operating profit reached through its five factories in mainland China.
I would like to thank Ilona for the 131.6m 2014 restated: 101.0m, representing a the expansion of the Groups existing facilities in contribution she has made to the Board and wish 10.8% return of sales, whilst adjusted earnings per 2 Morgantown, PA USA and the acquisition of the her well in her new role.
Promens operations in Canada, Russia, Tunisia, Net cash from operating activities was 92.7m Governance India and China, have resulted in the Group now 2014 restated: 100.2m.
Net statutory profit for The Board continues to focus on ensuring that the having a meaningful presence outside Europe.
UK Corporate Governance Codes principles of In May 2014 the Group sold its non-core disposables It is also pleasing to note that the Groups health leadership and Board effectiveness are applied.
trading business at Offenburg and in September and safety record improved significantly in the year Corporate governance continues to evolve and 2014 it sold its Cobelplast sheet businesses in after a setback in 2013 14, with the reportable emerging practice has remained a regular subject Belgium and Italy.
The Fitter for the Future accident frequency rate reducing from 1,197 to 753. for discussion at the Board.
We seek to run our programme was completed during the year with businesses in a responsible way, recognising that Strategy the remaining sites closed and two further surplus good corporate governance supports the longExcellent progress was made in delivering the properties sold.
This brought to an end this internal term health of the Group.
The changes and new Groups Vision 2020 strategy, with its three restructuring plan for the existing businesses.
appointments to the Board, whilst bringing new strategic objectives of continuing focused organic Newrestructuring activities have commenced in skills and experience to constructively challenge growth in selected areas of the packaging markets, connection with the integration of Promens and the and support the executive team, increase the selective consolidation in the European packaging realisation of synergies as a result of this acquisition.
Boards cultural and gender diversity.
market through targeted acquisitions and creating Board The Group is able to provide many opportunities a meaningful presence outside Europe where There were a number of changes to the Board for individuals to make their own contribution to growth rates are considerably higher.
The related during the year.
I am pleased to welcome Lynn the business.
On behalf of the Board I would like to financial minimum KPI hurdles of RONOA 20% Drummond and Godwin Wong who were thank all employees for their outstanding efforts, and return on sales 8% were both met.
appointed as non-executive directors on 16 July often in challenging circumstances.
They have Organic growth was good despite the continued 2014.
Stephan Rojahn, an independent nonenabled the Group to deliver another excellent subdued economic environment in Europe.
Underlying executive director who is currently chair of the financial performance for its shareholders, and sales for continuing operations were 4% higher than Remuneration Committee and a member of the I look forward to their continued contribution in the previous year with innovation and investments Audit and Nomination Committees, will retire achieving our strategy for the Group.
providing opportunities for further growth.
from the Board with effect from the end of the Dividend The acquisition of Promens combined two AGM on 15 July 2015, after nine years of service.
In line with RPCs progressive dividend policy, industry leading players and has accelerated the I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Board is recommending a final dividend of Groups programme for consolidation in Europe Stephan for his valuable contribution to the Board 11.0p per share making a total for the year of whilst providing access to new technologies and over this period.
With effect from 25 March 2015, 15.4p restated and 2014 restated: 13.8p, which geographic expansion.
The estimated steady Lynn Drummond, was appointed as a member is a 12% increase on the previous year.
The total state cost synergies from the combination are of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination dividend and 2014 comparator have been adjusted now projected to be 30m per annum.
The PET Committees and will take over the role of chair for the bonus element of the rights issue in the Power acquisition February 2015, together with of the Remuneration Committee after Stephans year connected with the Promens acquisition.
the recent Innocan acquisition May 2015, provide retirement.
Godwin Wong was also appointed This will be the 22nd successive year of dividend the Group with access to the growing market for a member of the Nomination Committee on progression since RPCs flotation.
PET products in mainland Europe.
On 13 May 2015 Ilona Haaijer, M&H Plastics and Helioplast acquisitions made in Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the who has been an independent non-executive 2013 14 have now been integrated successfully final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2015 to director since May 2012 and a member of the and have both grown significantly under shareholders on the register on 7 August 2015.
Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees, RPCs ownership.
announced her retirement from the Board following her recent promotion and increase in The Groups presence outside Europe was J R P Pike responsibilities with her employer, Royal DSM significantly enhanced by the acquisition of the Chairman 10 June 2015 I am pleased to report that 2014 15 was another successful year for the RPC Group.
The business performed well and we made further progress in implementing our Vision 2020 growth strategy.
We also finalised the Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme.
Significant progress was made in delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
Adjusted operating profit is defined as operating profit for continuing operations before restructuring, impairment charges and other exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and pension administration expenses.
Adjusted earnings per share is defined as adjusted operating profit for continuing operations after interest and tax adjustments but excluding non-underlying finance costs divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
