S St tr rat ate eg gi ic c Re Rep po or rt t C Ch ha air irm ma an n s s s st ta at te em me en nt t FOCUS We have made some important changes to our management in 2015 and laidthe groundwork for further performance improvements as we tackle some near-term challenges.
Ian Davis Chairman Rolls-Royce is a business in transition.
The next few years are going to be very important as we capitalise on our outstanding portfolio of products and services and the 76.4bn order book that supports them.
Underpinning this journey will be significant changes to our business.
Warren East, our new Chief Executive, will talk more about these in the Strategic Report.
During this period of transition we should not forget the core strengths of the business.
Our products, technologies and customer relationships have been further strengthened as a result of focused investment and the continued hard work ofour teams.
The sustained strong growth inour order book shows that our customers recognise the Underlying EPS value Rolls-Royce delivers.
The fundamentals of our business are unchanged.
We are investing today, as we 58.73p have for many years, in building a strong installed base of mission-critical industrial, marine and aerospace power systems.
Our Payment to shareholders market share, particularly in powering large civil airliners, will grow significantly over the next ten years providing a cash generative, sustainable platform from which to further develop the business.
Investing today to 16.37p secure that future is essential.
4 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Chairmans statement takeaway several important learnings from engineering and manufacturing experience, In summary different events, I have been impressed by after a long career at GKN and BAE Systems.
how your Board and senior management at Fundamental strengths Lewis Booth, a US resident and an independent Rolls-Royce have performed at a difficult time.
ofthebusiness unchanged Non-executive Director since 2011 has This has not been an easy year for the indicated his intention to relinquish his Continue to invest in marketCompany, its employees, investors or other responsibility as Senior Independent Director leading products, technologies stakeholders.
We have had to communicate once a successor has been appointed.
He will and customer services some challenging messages both internally continue as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and externally about our market outlook, Lay stronger foundations to rebuild ourperformance and, very importantly, the Dame Helen Alexander, an independent trust and confidence in a worldessential changes we will be making to cut Non-executive Director since 2007, will be class engineering business waste and restore confidence in the business.
stepping down from the Board after the AGM in May 2016 having completed her nine-year We have not taken our eye off some of the term.
At that time she will be succeeded as At the same time, we are facing some historic issues that have undermined confidence Chairman of the Remuneration Committee challenges in key markets, particularly in in the business in the past.
Concerns about by Ruth Cairnie, who joined the Board in Marine, and are managing a major change bribery and corruption involving intermediaries September 2014.
On behalf of the Board inproduct mix within Civil Aerospace, which in overseas markets remain subject to Iwould like to thank Dame Helen for her hasadirect impact on how we recognise examination by the Serious Fraud Office and dedicated service to the Company.
She has revenues and profits.
This meant we took the other authorities and these investigations been a wise and insightful member of the decision to undertake amajor restructuring are not yet complete.
We have done much to Board and her well-judged advice and of the business.
Warrens recent review of address the root of these problems and this leadership of our Remuneration Committee operations, unanimously supported by work is being continually reinforced to ensure have been highly valued by her colleagues.
the Board, highlighted a number of areas we all meet the high standards expected of us.
where, over time, costs have grown in an unsustainable way.
This clearly needs to Rebuilding trust and confidence Board developments change.
We have approved aplan toreduce our In the first months since his appointment last fixed cost base by 150m to200m per annum During the year there have been a number of July, Warren has made an enormous impact and simplify the way we manage the business.
important changes to the Board.
On 22 April onthe business with a clear, well-structured we announced that John Rishton had decided review.
This has examined the strengths and to retire as Chief Executive on 2 July, to be Shareholder payments weaknesses of our businesses and highlighted succeeded by Warren East.
At the AGM on the critical investment priorities required The pace of investment required to transform 8 May James Guyette, President and Chief todevelop our competitive advantages and the business creates near-term pressure Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North market position.
I have also been pleased onfree cash flow.
At the same time, we need America, retired and stepped down from the bythesteps he and his team have taken to sustain a healthy balance sheet to ensure Board.
John Neill also stood down at the AGM toimprove communication to our investors.
we have the financial flexibility tomaintain after six years as a Non-executive Director.
While it is early days, I believe his approach astrong investment-grade credit rating.
has been well received and has laid good Irene Dorner, formerly CEO and President Asaresult, the Board is recommending foundations from which we can rebuild trust of HSBC USA, joined the Board in July.
thatthe payment to shareholders is halved and confidence inthe business.
Alan Davies, Chief Executive of Rio Tintos incash terms at the full year and the next Diamonds and Minerals division, and Sir Kevin halfyear.
We recognise the importance Smith, the former Chief Executive of GKN, the Looking forward ofahealthy dividend to ourshareholders.
multinational automotive and aerospace Subject to short-term cash needs, we intend to 2016 will be another challenging year for business, both joined the Board from review the payment sothat it will be rebuilt Rolls-Royce.
As Warren sets out in his review, 1November.
In February 2016, Sir Kevin over time to an appropriate level.
Thisreflects we are doing a great deal within the business assumed Chairmanship of the Science & the Boards long-standing confidence in the to ensure we successfully transition over the Technology Committee.
strong future cash generation of the business.
next few years to a more strongly profitable Irene brings a wealth of international expertise, and cash-generative future.
The Group is well As a result, the proposed final payment particularly in risk management and positioned to grow strongly on the back of for2015 is 7.1p per share, 50% of the final operational performance.
Alan, as well innovative, market-leading technology.
Wedo payment made for full year 2014.
It is further ashaving a strong financial background, have some near-term challenges but the proposed that the interim payment for 2016 brings relevant experience in transforming fundamentals of the business remain strong, will also be reduced to 50% of the prior year.
operational performance and driving cultural underpinned by a record order book and change through a complex global organisation, some great people across the organisation.
Corporate governance together with a deep knowledge of China and Ian Davis other key emerging markets.
Sir Kevin also 2015 has proven to be a strong test of our Chairman brings recent Asian experience together with governance processes and, while we will 11 February 2016 significant aerospace industry knowledge, with Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 5
