ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WE ARE WELL PLACED TO NAVIGATE CURRENT MARKET TURBULENCE, WHILST CONTINUING TO FOCUS ON OUR STRATEGY FOR LONG TERM GROWTH.
FOCUS ON MEDIUM TO LONG TERM GROWTH In this my first year as Chairman, Rotork has delivered a robust set of results despite increasingly difficult trading conditions.
Although we do not expect conditions to improve in the near term, the increasing diversity of our end markets and geographies, together with our strong market positions, leave us well placed to navigate the current turbulence, whilst continuing to put the building blocks in place for superior medium to long term growth.
At times such as these, the fundamentals of the Martin Lamb business are tested to the full.
This includes the Chairman appropriateness and resilience of the strategy, the strength of our market positions, the quality of the management, and the cohesiveness of our culture and values.
I have found Rotork to be in good shape in all these respects.
Over many years, Rotork has established clear leadership positions in well-defined end markets, based on innovative technology and excellent customer service, delivered by a team of highly motivated and experienced employees who put the customer at the heart of what they do.
Our asset-light model provides considerable flexibility in prioritising resource according to the greatest need or opportunity, whilst preserving capital for investment in technology and innovation.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11 Financial highlights Board composition and performance Our employees Order intake was 15.2% lower than I would like to thank my fellow I would like to thank all of our employees the prior year on an organic constant Directors for welcoming me as for their continued high level of currency OCC basis but the their new Chairman and for their commitment and professionalism during contributions from acquisitions, which considerable support in my first this challenging year.
were mainly completed in the second year in the role.
half of the year, offset in part by the Dividend 0.9% currency headwind resulted in The Board currently comprises three The Board recommends a final a reported reduction of 11.7%.
executive Directors, four independent dividend of 3.1p per share, a 0.3% non-executive Directors and myself as increase over the 2014 final dividend.
Revenue of 546.5m was supported Chairman.
Two out of the eight Taken with the 2015 interim dividend, by the order book at the start of the Directors are women 25%, which the total dividend is 5.05p per share year, so reduced by less than order remains the same as last year.
2014: 5.01p, representing a 0.8% intake and was 11.9% lower on an increase in the total dividend on 2014.
OCC basis and 8.1% lower on a We are announcing today that Bob The final dividend will be payable on reported basis.
Arnold will retire in August this year.
16 May 2016 to shareholders on the Bob has been President of Rotork register on 8 April 2016.
Adjusted operating profit reduced Controls Inc. since 1988 and a member 20.3% to 125.3m.
Adjusted operating of the Board since 2001.
I would like to Outlook margins reduced by 350 basis points thank Bob for his contribution since The challenging market conditions to 22.9%, impacted by lower sales joining Rotork in 1978 and in particular that we saw in the first half of the year volumes and the mix effect of newly his significant role in supporting the continued for the remainder of 2015, acquired businesses at lower margins, expansion of the business throughout with many of our key markets and partially offset by a 4.0m reduction the Americas.
geographies impacted by the in overheads.
The reduction at gross weakness of the oil price, political margin level to 45.7% was contained The annual performance review of instability and the slowdown in China.
to 230 basis points, with only a small the Board is scheduled to take place increase in overall material cost during February and March 2016, see We were encouraged by the progress percentage, reflecting effective control page 62 of the Corporate Governance of our accelerated cost management over material and labour costs, and Report for further details.
programme in 2015 and further actions good pricing resilience in challenging to mitigate the effect of end market market conditions.
Corporate Governance weakness will remain a key focus in The Board continues to be committed the current year.
We continue to see Acquisitions to the highest standards of governance.
opportunities to gain market share by Rotork had a very active year for During the year, the Board and Audit expanding our product portfolio and acquisitions as we continued to Committee were involved in continuing through both organic development implement our strategy for growth, consideration of, and work related to, and acquisition.
By continuing to and we invested 147.6m on risk appetite, and the monitoring implement our strategy for growth acquisitions in total.
This year we and disclosure of risk following the and targeted investment we will acquired Bifold Group Ltd Bifold, revisions in 2014 to the UK Corporate ensure that Rotork is well placed to M&M Srl, Eltav Wireless Monitoring Ltd, Governance Code the Code.
make further progress over the all of which sit in our Instruments medium to long term.
division, and Roto Hammer Industries Further details of this work and its Inc. for our Gears division.
We also outputs, our approach to governance acquired our agents businesses and our compliance with the Code Martin Lamb in the south of France and Turkey.
are contained in the Corporate Chairman The acquisition of Bifold for up to Governance Report on pages 62 to 68.
29 February 2016 125m in August is the largest acquisition completed by Rotork to date and provides a platform for the accelerated growth of the Instruments division, expanding our addressable market by a further 750m.
Bifold performed in line with our expectations during the year.
