Strategic report Chairmans statement We are confi dent in our long-term growth strategy and remain highly disciplined about our capital allocation, with a fi rm focus on shareholder returns.
Dear shareholder planning for both management and nonI was delighted to be able to announce in executive directors, long-term growth August that that search, most ably led by In my final letter to you as Chairman, I am prospects and dividend policy.
Our Lesley Knox on behalf of the nomination pleased to report a year of strong underlying conversations were constructive, and committee, had been successful and that business performance.
Our cash ow we always welcome the opportunity Jan du Plessis had agreed to join the board performance is strong, enabling us to to engage with shareholders.
as an independent non-executive director recommend an increased final dividend with effect from 1 September 2014, with the of 87 US cents per share, to be paid to Lesley Knox, our remuneration committee intention to succeed me as Chairman at the shareholders on 14 August 2015.
This brings chairman, again initiated a consultation conclusion of the annual general meeting in the total dividend for the year to 113 US cents exercise with our 50 largest shareholders, July 2015.
This has allowed Jan some time per share, an increase of 8% over last year.
of whom five took up the invitation to engage.
to familiarise himself with the group, and we We have a clear financial framework and This was fewer than the prior year, but as have used the intervening months well to remain highly disciplined about our capital we are not proposing any changes to our ensure an orderly handover of responsibilities.
allocation, with a rm focus on shareholder remuneration policy following its approval returns.
Our total shareholder return TSR by shareholders in 2014, that is not The progressive renewal over the period from March 2010 to March surprising.
More details are set out in of the board has meanwhile 2015 was 121% and outperformed both the directors remuneration continued apace, with our peer groups median TSR growth report on pages 74 to 96. a number of new and of 85% and the FTSE 100. proposed appointments 113 Corporate governance and retirements.
Results and succession US cents Organic, constant currency group net In the corporate governance In January, we announced Total dividend payment producer revenue NPR grew by 5%, with report on pages 56 to 69, that Trevor Manuel had 2014: 105 US cents.
group NPR per hectolitre hl up by 3%, there is a detailed description agreed to join the board as resulting in organic, constant currency of the directors approach to an independent non-executive EBITA growth of 6% and a pleasing EBITA corporate governance, our director with effect from 1 March margin expansion on the same basis of application of the UK Corporate 2015.
Trevor brings to the board 30 bps to 24.4%.
The increase in organic, Governance Code, and our views on an exemplary track record as one of the constant currency group NPR re ects growth the role and effectiveness of the board.
worlds longest-serving finance ministers, in all regions.
However, after the impact of with the South African Government, and the depreciation of all of our key currencies In addition to delivering strong underlying wide-ranging experience of advising against the US dollar, reported group NPR business performance in challenging multilateral organisations on developing declined by 2%, and reported EBITA by 1%.
circumstances, the boards principal focus market development and sustainability, both The decline in EBITA also re ects the disposal has been on matters of management of which I am sure will be great assets to of our stake in Tsogo Sun, our hotels and succession, with a number of planned the board.
gaming investment, during the year.
As a retirements being announced during the year, result, adjusted earnings were down by as well as some organisational changes.
In March, we announced that Javier Ferrn 1%, with adjusted EPS down by 1% to More details of these are set out in the Chief had agreed to stand for election as an 239.1 US cents per share.
We delivered Executives review on pages 6 to 10.
The independent non-executive director at this a strong cash ow performance with free board received frequent updates during years annual general meeting.
Our gearing ratio as at the year from the Chief Executive on extensive experience of the global alcohol 31 March 2015 was 43%, with net debt management succession planning, and industry, an in-depth knowledge of consumer having reduced by US$3,838 million, to engaged in a number of discussions goods, and considerable experience of end the year at US$10,465 million.
operating in both developed and developing markets.
His skills will admirably complement As I noted last year, following Graham the existing range of financial and operational Shareholder engagement Mackays death, the board requested that disciplines represented on our board and he During the year, I had a number of meetings I defer my previously announced retirement will further expand the diversity of nationalities with shareholders, with matters raised date by a year to July 2015 to allow adequate sitting round our board table.
including the principal risks facing the group, time to search for a longer term successor.
sustainable development, succession 4 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report In May, Altria nominated Dave Beran to succeed Howard Willard to the board with effect from the 2015 annual general meeting.
We are most grateful to Howard for his valued contribution over the years and look forward to welcoming Dave to the board in July.
Finally, we say farewell this year to John Manzoni who, after 11 years of distinguished service since joining the board in 2004, has decided that it is time to step down and will not be standing for re-election.
I want to place on record our thanks for Johns outstanding contribution to the SABMiller board.
He brought to our deliberations a keen intellect and considerable insight into the business environment across multiple continents and countries, and served with distinction as a key member of our remuneration, nomination and corporate accountability committees.
We wish him every success in his future endeavours.
The other change to note this year was the appointment from 1 November 2014 Board evaluation Your new Chairman of Stephen Shapiro as Group Company In light of my interim role as Chairman In concluding, I would like to thank my fellow Secretary in succession to John Davidson, over the past year, and the forthcoming board members and all shareholders for who relinquished this role in light of the handover of responsibilities, the board allowing me to chair this great company, additional responsibilities which he assumed concluded that it would be inappropriate albeit in circumstances that I profoundly wish as Corporate Affairs Director part way through to undertake an  had never come to pass, and for the support the year.
I would like to thank John for his evaluation of the boards effectiveness.
which everyone has given to me.
It has been support to the board over the last eight years, Instead, the board asked Guy Elliott, an honour to be associated with SABMiller and in particular to me over the past two our Deputy Chairman and Senior and its leaders, and my consolation on retiring years.
His knowledge of the law and its Independent Director, to conduct a is the knowledge that I pass the chairmanship application to our businesses is second to detailed internal review of performance, into the best possible hands.
none, as is his familiarity with the numerous with able assistance from our new Company regulations and corporate governance Secretary.
The results of the performance Jan du Plessis has an excellent record principles which apply to our group.
He and effectiveness assessment process were as a chairman of major international groups applies his knowledge with great skill and reviewed in full and approved by the board.
with developing market footprints, and sensitivity.
We are fortunate indeed to have As discussed more fully in the corporate a wealth of experience of international Stephen to step up to the role, as a seasoned governance review, matters identi ed as consumer businesses.
I have thoroughly corporate and commercial lawyer who brings requiring further consideration included enjoyed working with Jan over the past over 12 years of experience in supporting senior executive succession planning and few months and I commend him to you and advising our board and leading an talent development and ensuring that the as your next Chairman.
board had adequate time to focus on particularly important issues.
It was also John Manser suggested that we review the terms of Chairman reference of the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee.
Further details are in the corporate governance report on pages 56 to 69.
