Chairmans statement We have met our long-term financial targets for 2015 and are focussed on the next phase of long-term sustainable growth Chairman, Donald Brydon, looks back on this year progress.
8 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2015is a cornerstone year for Sage.
We have seen another The strategycomprises five strategic pillars which have year of improvement and I am pleased to announce that we been agreed by the Board and are explored in detail within have met our long term key financial targets.
Supporting the Strategy section of this Annual Report.
This evolved this headline progress, our recurring revenue growth, strategy recognises that we need to move from being a driven by the move to subscription, underlines the quality decentralised product-centric organisation to a customerof our reported growth.
This performance provides solid centric model that leverages our global scale.
This is a foundations from which to build as we redene our model based on earning customers for life and winning ambition and target the next phase of growth.
market share, ultimately driving growth and shareholder returns.
New ways of working are required in order to realise When I joined Sage in 2012 I highlighted in my first report our potential, with a greater emphasis on international that I was impressed by the fundamentals of Sages collaboration, agile working and executing with measured business: our leading franchise with Small & Medium but determined pace.
The development of Sage Live, our Businesses, the recurring nature of revenues and the brand new cloud solution for growing businesses with a strong cash generation.
These remain core strengths for mobile first mind set, is the embodiment of these working Sage and are central to our plans for creating shareholder practices.
Sages traditional development cycles were value in the future.
However, internally, I considered we redened, as the product was taken by a multi country could improve the speed of decision making and our team from idea to launch in just26 weeks.
go-to-market processes, and identied the need to leverage the Groups assets if Sagewas to be more than just the sum Above all, it is the strength of our relationships with of its international parts.
customers, existing and new, and our ability to meet their needs, which dierentiates us in the market and provides Read more about The Board us with compelling opportunities to grow.
This is where the Board on pages The composition of the board has been reconstructed investment will be prioritised.
A key tenet therefore of 60 and 61 over recent years as we have sought to rebalance the the strategyis to redeploy investment to strengthen our collective skillset, adding more technology knowledge, capability to win in the market, but to do so in a manner more international experience, more understanding of which is readily scalable.
change management at pace and more financial depth.
The work we are doing also underpins the financial prole The current board membership also provides options of the business driving organic recurring revenue growth for succession.
and maintaining margins whilst improving eciency and When Guy Berruyer stepped down as CEO at the start of generating cash.
the nancialyear, we conducted a focused and rapid search In summary looking for growth technology leadership skills, pace, drive and ambition.
From a global eld of candidates I am Nothing stands still at Sage: it has been a year of further delighted that we found and appointed Stephen Kelly.
progress, particularly nancially, but also a year of raising He has deep experience in running successful software our ambition and planning accordingly.
There is a genuine companies, complemented by his focus on addressing sense of anticipation throughout the organisation, the needs of Small & Medium Businesses and putting heightened by a measured injection of pace into the customers first.
Together with Steve Hare as CFO, we decision making and implementation timelines.
Much have two executive directors with proven track records work lies ahead in order to eect this transition, however of successfully leading organisations through change.
the opportunities to grow successfully are compelling.
As ever, we can only be successful with excellent people Stephen is responsible for driving the next phase of our and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our strategy and he started by leading a comprehensive 100 day employees and partners for their very considerable eorts review programme to inform our ambition and plans for the in the past year.
I would also like to record the Boards future.
The main learning point from this rigorous exercise appreciation for the work of Guy Berruyer who set the first was that the existing strategy was soundly based but signals for the Groups future development.
Finally, I would execution needed to improve and accelerate.
Put simply, like to thank ourcustomers and look forward to building we need to raise our ambition.
Stephen has reshaped his on the momentum established in FY15, as we continue to executive commiee and has added the requisite global champion their cause.
experience whilst also ensuring continuity for our customers by building on our existing talent pool.
Refreshed strategy to drive shareholder returns Our strategy has been refreshed and remains consistent with our belief in generating strong cash ows in order to invest in the business and drive sustainable, profitable growth.
Our strong cash ow also continues to support both our ability to grow with bolt-on acquisitions and our Donald Brydon progressive dividend policy.
Chairman The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9
