Executive Chairmans Statement Delighted to beat market expectations in our first year as a listed company.
Dear Shareholders, businesses and we are already seeing the benefits of that This is a strong first set of full year results for Saga as a listed experience.
At the start of 2015, Lance outlined the Groups company.
We have achieved much while setting out our strategy.
The Board believes that this strategy provides a clear long-term strategy for the business.
Importantly we have plan for growth through clarity about what Saga is and where also delivered growth and performed ahead of market it plays best, focusing on our core businesses and a expectations for this year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our customers, I would also like to thank Stuart Howard, our Group Chief who are at the heart of everything we do at Saga.
We record Financial Officer, who will retire later this year.
Stuart and exceptional customer satisfaction scores because we listen to Ihave worked together for 15 years growing Saga into the our customers, take time to understand their unique needs business it is today, and his loyalty and insights have been and deliver products and high standards of service that meet invaluable to the Group.
In wishing Stuart well I would also their expectations.
like to formally welcome his successor, Jonathan Hill, who started with us earlier this month and will now work with Saga standards of customer service are delivered on a day to Stuart to ensure an orderly handover during 2015. day basis by our employees and I would like to thank them for all of their hard work.
From the excellent people in our UK call The Board believes that Saga is well positioned to deliver centres to the popular teams on our cruise ships, it is our long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders by employees that work tirelessly to maintain and protect our delivering consistent profitable growth with a capital efficient trusted brand and deliver the Saga experience to our customers.
model, leading to exceptional cash generation on an ongoing basis.
As a result of this, I am delighted to be able to Many customers have been with Saga for a long time and announce in our first year as a listed company that we are have multiple products from us.
We do not underestimate our recommending a dividend of 4.1p per share.
This dividend is responsibility to ensure that every experience they have with prorata for the proportion of the financial year post IPO and Saga is exceptional.
As we look to expand into new areas, equates to 6.0p per share on an annualised basis.
The final we will continue to be led by customer insights.
dividend will be paid on 30 June 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to shareholders on the register on the I would also like to welcome those who have become Record Date of 5 June 2015. shareholders in the Group during the year.
Over 200,000 retail shareholders elected to become owners of the business This dividend is at the top end of the forecast range we during the IPO.
I am pleased that the feedback I have been outlined at the time of the IPO and, in combination with receiving from you is that you share my view of the significant the bonus share scheme, will mean an investment return of long-term opportunity that Saga represents.
We have also over 8% this year for all eligible retail investors.
Additionally, been delighted to welcome new institutional shareholders we have announced that the top end of the target dividend to Saga both through the IPO and through the subsequent range has increased from 50% to 60% ofnet income.
placing, resulting in a high-quality and balanced shareholder base with which to take the business forward.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to Lance Batchelor, who took over as Group Chief Executive Officer in the early Andrew Goodsell part of this financial year.
Lance came to Saga with an Based on the IPO issue price of Executive Chairman exceptional track record in growing customer-centric 185p per share and the annualised 29 April 2015 dividend of 6.0p per share.
Saga plc 06 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman Governance highlights It was important for an enhanced governance structure to be established in our first year as a listed Group, so that we had a framework of effective control.
The Board continues to maintain a dialogue with key investors and will make itself available to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The governance process will continue to evolve as the Group takes shape, and to take account of future changes in regulation and best practice.
Go to page 54 for more information on our governance Why invest?
Strong repeatable business model Consistent financial delivery and cash generation We focus on understanding customer needs and Trading EBITDA has increased year on year for the last developing the best products and services to meet them.
We turned more than 70% of our EBITDA into This approach has meant weve consistently grown our cashlast year, giving us the flexibility to balance investment business over the last 60 years.
We aim to still be the best in value enhancing growth, repaying debt and returning at what we do in another 60 years.
Go to page 13 for more information Go to page 39 for more information Growth potential in our target market and Opportunities for growth in our core businesses a great brand and a commitment to innovation The over 50s demographic holds 68% of the UKs wealth With only 8.5% market share in the over 50s UK motor and accounts for about half of all household expenditure.
and 6.8% in the over 50s UK home insurance markets Most importantly it is a growing group.
In total there will the largest parts of the Saga business significant potential be 30% more over 50s in 20 years than there are today.
exists in our core businesses.
We combine this commitment One of the most important sectors of this demographic to expanding the core businesses with a relentless focus for Saga the over 75s is due to grow by 73% in the on new sectors where we can differentiate our offer, create next 20 years.
Add to this Sagas brand awareness of a market or disrupt the current one.
over 96% and the growth potential for the business becomes even more compelling.
Go to pages 11-12 for more information Go to pages 14-17 for more information Saga plc 07 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
