Chairmans statement Successful implementation of our US growth strategy, the acquisitions of SEB Asset Management in Europe and Smiths Gore in the UK, and improved business activity in many of our key markets, resulted in record revenue and profits in 2015.
Peter Smith Chairman 10 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements have acquired a number of complementary businesses and added Results teams and individual hiresto our strong core business.
During 2015, The Groups underlying profit for the year increased by 21% to 121.4m wecontinued to buildon the 2014 acquisition of Savills Studley with a 2014:100.5m, on revenue which improved by 19% to 1,283.5m number of transactions in the US and the acquisition of our first operation 2014:1,078.2m.
The Groups statutory profit before taxincreased in Canada.
In Asia Pacific, we acquired a significant interest in our by16% to 98.6m 2014:84.7m.
firstoperation in Malaysia, a Residential business in Sydney and established our first occupier focused business in India.
Overview With investors globally seeking secure income in a historically low interest We also focused on building our longer term management businesses rate environment, the allocation to Real Estate in investment portfolios with the acquisition of Smiths Gore, a long-established leading firm in has continued to grow.
2015 again demonstrated the importance of rural and estate management in theUK, property management Savills strengths in the prime markets of many of the worlds key cities.
businesses in London and Singapore, and the SEB investment Furthermore, the continued development of our USbusiness, where management business based in Frankfurt and Singapore.
anumber of complementary acquisitions were completed by Savills Studley during the year, enhanced our position further in that market.
Board On31 August, Savills Investment Management formerly Cordea Savills On 26 January we announced that I would retire as Chairman atthe completed the acquisition of SEB Asset Management AG, and as forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May and that Nicholas Ferguson aresult of the acquired business completing a substantial one-off would succeed me.
During this year we have reviewed the composition transaction at the end of the year, our profits from Investment of the Board and, in addition to Nicholas appointment, we have also Management activities increased substantially over the previous year.
appointed Rupert Robson as non-executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee and, in succession to Martin Angle, Liz Hewitt Our Transaction Advisory revenue grew by 25%, our Consultancy revenue as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Having served onthe Board for 10 by 6% and our Property Management revenue by15%, boosted by years, latterly as Senior Independent Director, Martin will also retire at the theacquisition of Smiths Gore in the UK.
Weenjoyed a strong year in conclusion of the AGM.
I thank him forhisenormous contribution over most ofthe commercial markets in which weoperate including record the years and his particular supportlast year in respect of the Board performances in the UK, US andAsiaand a further improvement in profits review process and Chairman succession.
from our businesses inContinental Europe.
Our Residential businesses weathered changeable conditions in a number of the worlds prime Tim Freshwater will become Senior Independent Director on markets withUK revenue down by only 1% year on year.
In Asia, the size Martinsretirement.
and stability of our Property Management business, strong performances in China, Australia and Korea and significant market share gains in the Dividends commercial capital markets business in Hong Kong, collectively helped An initial interim dividend of 4.0p per share 2014: 3.75p amounting to tomitigate the effect of subdued investment volumes in HongKong, 5.3m was paid on 12 October 2015, and a final ordinary dividend of Singapore and mainland China.
8.0p 2014: 7.25p is recommended, making the ordinary dividend 12.0p for the year 2014: 11.0p.
In addition, a supplemental interim dividend of In Continental Europe, improved market conditions benefited our 14.0p 2014: 12p is declared, based upon the underlying performance predominantly transaction orientated businesses with revenue increasing ofour Transaction Advisory business.
Taken together, the ordinary and by 10% 22% in constant currency and profitability further improved.
supplemental dividends comprise an aggregate distribution for the Savills Investment Management, enhanced through the acquisition of yearof 26.0p per share, representing an increase of 13% on the 2014 SEB Asset Management delivered a substantially improved performance aggregate dividend of 23.0p.
The final ordinary dividend of 8.0p per across its European platform increasing Assets Under Management ordinary share will, subject to shareholders approval at the Annual AUM by 138% to17.1bn, revenue by 59% and profits by 148%.
General Meeting on 11 May 2016, be paid alongside the supplemental interim dividend of 14.0p per share on 16 May 2016 to shareholders The Groups underlying profit margin increased to 9.5% from 9.3% in onthe register at 15 April 2016.
2014, despite the negative effects of the slowdown in UK Residential markets and the effect of business development expenditure in the US.
People Considerable performance improvement in the broader UK market, the I would like to express my thanks to all ourstaff worldwide for their hard substantial increase in profits from Investment Management together work, commitment and continued focus on client service, enabling the with the profit improvement in Continental Europe were the principal Group to deliver this record performance in 2015.
I retire knowing that contributors to that increase.
Savills is in very capable hands.
Business development Outlook Over the last 10 years the global real estate market has been characterised by significant cross-border flows of capital and multiWe have made a good start to 2016 with a solid pipeline of business national occupier requirements.
The property services industry has seen carried over from last year in many markets, although the impact of global a degree of consolidation as organisations have sought to rebalance macro-economic and political concerns on real estate markets worldwide is theirportfolio of services, grow into new markets or take advantage uncertain.
At this stage, we retain a cautious view on some Asian markets, ofweakness in the competition.
During this period we have built the particularly the Tier 2 Chinese cities, and we expect the UK residential and business around our core strategy of servicing investor and occupier commercial investment markets to be subdued, for the former, as Stamp requirements in the worlds key locations and maintaining a differentiated Duty reforms take effect, and more generally in the run-up to the EU position from the competition, based around the quality of our property referendum in June.
However, the strength of our enlarged US operation, intelligence and the capability of our organisation to add value in both the increased size of our Investment Management, Property Management thecommercial and residential markets.
and Consultancy businesses and the breadth of our UK business together with further improvement in Continental Europe, all bode well for the future Savills strategy is to be a leading advisor in the key markets in whichwe of your Company.
Accordingly, the Boards expectations for the year as a operate.
Our global strategy is delivered locally by our experts on the whole remain unchanged.
ground with flexibility to adapt quickly to changes incircumstances and opportunities.
They are supported by our regional and cross-border Peter Smith investment and occupier service specialists.
Over the last few years we Chairman SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 11
