STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHARLES BERRY CHAIRMAN 2015 PERFORMANCE SAFETY Senior delivered a solid performance in 2015 As a Board we are committed to the safety A SOLID against the backdrop of difficult market and well-being of our employees.
Our goal is to conditions, particularly on the industrial side eliminate occupational injury and illness through ofthe business.
Adjusted profit before tax our Zero Harm strategy so everyone returns decreased to 99.3m, down 3%, or 6% on home safely at the end of the day.
It is with PERFORMANCE aconstant currency basis, over the prior year.
great sadness, therefore, to report on two This was mainly due to gains in the Aerospace deaths that occurred in 2015 from activities Division being more than offset by significant closely associated with Senior.
A sub-contractor declines in the Flexonics Division reflecting died while working on the construction of the IN A thechallenging market conditions resulting Groups new facility in India and in December from global uncertainty in the oil and gas, an engineer was fatally injured while working commodity and industrial sectors.
for our Chinese joint venture.
Following both of CHALLENGING these incidents, a comprehensive investigation Group cash generation remains strong, with was conducted and a series of corrective free cash flow of 51.7m for the year resulting actions have been implemented and the in a strong financial position for the Group at lessons shared across the Group.
SUSTAINABILITY DIVIDEND Environmental stewardship and corporate The Board is proposing a final dividend of responsibility are values core to Senior and 4.36pence per share which would bring performance in these areas is increasingly total dividends, paid and proposed, for 2015 important to our investors, customers and to 6.20pence per share.
As the Group expands, the 10% over 2014 despite the decrease in responsibility to improve the environmental adjusted earnings per share reflects performance and strengthen the focus on the Groups encouraging medium-term safety within newly acquired businesses is prospects and dividend cover of 3.1 times.
During 2015, the Group has increased its efforts in this area and has GOVERNANCE developed a new 20 20 Vision which outlines The Board recognises the importance of our approach to Sustainability for the next five setting the right tone from the top of the years.
Consequently, this years Annual Report organisation, and for this reason has been includes an expanded Corporate Responsibility encouraged by the work undertaken in 2015 section outlining all of the key themes and toupdate key policies such as the Senior Code actions which underpin our 20 20 Vision.
of Conduct as part of a holistic corporate framework.
The Board has continued to ACQUISITIONS maintain oversight of capital allocation, As well as growing organically, Senior performance and risk management.
During seekstoincrease shareholder value through 2015, significant improvements were made to the acquisition of capabilities adjacent to its the Groups risk management processes and existing portfolio.
these have been explained on pages 26 to 31 of this Annual Report.
This strategy continued in 2015 with the acquisition of Lymington Precision Engineering LPE and Steico Industies Inc. Steico.
8 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CHANGES TO THE BOARD LPE represents an excellent addition to Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to NEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Seniors portfolio, strengthening the Groups thank Andy Hamment for his contribution to precision machining capabilities and providing Senior.
Andy has decided to retire from the APPOINTED access to LPEs strong customer relationships Board after the conclusion of the Companys David Squires joined Senior and the Board and adjacent markets.
AGM on 22 April 2016. on 1 May 2015, and took over from Mark Rollins as Group Chief Executive Steico represents an important addition to EMPLOYEES on1 June 2015.
Seniors Aerospace Division, broadening our Seniors continued strength is a reflection product offering and enabling Senior to respond ofthe quality of the people within the Group.
to our customers desire for us to offer more Senior now employs over 7,400 people with complete fluid systems work packages.
The around 1,300 located in Asia, demonstrating Board is delighted to welcome the employees the ever-increasing global nature of the of both businesses to the Group.
On behalf of the Board, I would like tothank all of the Groups employees for their THE BOARD significant contribution to Seniors success Mark Rollins retired from the Board on over the past year.
31 May 2015 after 17 years with the Group including seven years as Chief Executive.
Mark STRATEGY David Squires joined the Board made an outstanding contribution to Senior The Groups primary performance objective 1 May 2015. during his time with the Group, and on behalf isto create long-term sustainable growth in of the Board, I would like to thank him for his shareholder value.
It aims to achieve this dedicated and successful service to Senior and objective through the development of a to wish him all the very best for a long and portfolio of collaborative high value-added fulfilling retirement.
engineering manufacturing companies within its five market sector framework: three in In May 2015, David Squires joined the Group theAerospace Division Fluid Conveyance as Chief Executive-designate, before taking Systems, Gas Turbine Engines and Structures over as Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015. and two in the Flexonics Division Land Vehicle I am extremely pleased to have David on the Emission Control and Industrial Process Mark Rollins retired team and have already observed the benefits Control, with each strategic market sector 31 May 2015. ofhis depth and breadth of experience, offering deliverable growth opportunities.
following 25 years in the global aerospace and defence industry, working in both developing The Groups strategy has proven to be and larger organisations.
successful over recent years and, whilst evolving as the Group gets larger and market I am also pleased to welcome Susan Brennan conditions change, it continues to provide to Senior, as a non-executive Director.
a solid foundation for the Groups future Susan Brennan is Chief Operations Officer at growthaspirations.
Bloom Energy Corporation, a leading developer of solid oxide fuel cell technology based in Sunnyvale, California.
Susan has more than Susan Brennan joined the Board Charles Berry 1 January 2016.
25years of manufacturing experience, including Chairman automotive vehicle, powertrain and components assembly.
She served as VP of Manufacturing at Nissan North America, Inc. and as Director of global manufacturing at Ford, where she led a global business office for Fords assembly, powertrain and stamping plants.
Andy Hamment will retire following the AGM.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 9
