Strategic Report Chairmans Statement 05 Chairmans Statement Since joining Serco in June, I have seen first-hand the strong commitment of our people to delivering excellent public services.
Much has been done in 2015 to implement Sercos new strategy and strengthen the business, and we now have a good foundation upon which to build a successful future.
There is much still to do to complete our transformation and restore Serco to appropriate growth and returns, and doing so whilst ensuring we meet the highest standards of operational performance, corporate governance, integrity and business ethics.
Sir Roy Gardner I joined Sercos Board on of Sercos values to Trust, Care, Chairman 1June2015 and after a handover Innovation and Pride, which will period with Alastair Lyons, your sit at the very core of how the outgoing Chairman, I took over business operates.
Above all, I Serco is a remarkable company, his responsibilities with effect feel very comfortable with Sercos supporting governments around from 1 July 2015.
I was extremely strategy of being a world-class the world in the delivery of thankful for the thorough handover provider of public services.
As your I received from Alastair, and seen the strong commitment of new Chairman, I am proud to be for all his hard work before my my new colleagues to delivering working with the management arrival in seeking to stabilise superb public service, and having team and with every colleague the business.
It was Alastairs seen contracts where we provide throughout the Group to recruitment of a strong executive outstanding results for our clients implement Sercos new strategy management team, his work to and service users, I can see why improve the relationship with the management believe they can and to create value for our UK Government, his steering of the develop differentiated customer shareholders and customers.
Corporate Renewal Programme propositions that are focused on and his support for setting a new excelling in public service delivery.
strategic direction and capital The Groups new strategy was structure for Serco that has been presented to shareholders in an essential foundation to March 2015, and since then a turn the Group around.
great deal of progress has been In the course of my career I made in implementing that have been fortunate to serve strategy.
We have materially in executive, non-executive completed our exit from the and chairman roles of large offshore private sector Business and complex companies, often Process Outsourcing business.
serving governments around the Through a combination of raising world, and I have experienced new equity from our shareholders a number of the challenges that and the proceeds from disposals, Serco is seeking to address.
I net debt at year-end has been have learnt that you must be clear reduced substantially from a peak on the behaviours you expect of 745m two years ago to 78m from those you work with, and at 31 December 2015.
I am pleased with the refresh Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 06 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans Statement continued With Underlying Trading Profit of this Committee will include be a further challenging year in of 96m and a free cash outflow all material areas related to terms of financial performance, of just 16m, we have overethical standards.
Similarly, our and we have reiterated our delivered against the guidance Corporate Responsibility and Risk recent guidance of revenue we gave at the beginning Committee has demonstrated and Underlying Trading Profit of 2015 and in connection strong governance in action reducing to approximately 2.8bn with the Rights Issue.
Vast with Rachel Lomax, Nonand 50m respectively.
Your improvements have been made Executive Director and Chair of Board is, however, absolutely to management information this Committee, overseeing the focused on long-term, sustainable and financial reporting systems.
independent and comprehensive shareholder value creation, Costs have been reduced, investigation into the culture and doing so by protecting the and our relationship with key at Yarls Wood Immigration best interests of shareholders government customers improved.
We will continue alongside those of our employees, The management team has been to actively shape the terms customers, and the societies strengthened by the addition of of reference of the various and communities in which we talented new managers.
These committees over the course of work.
Serco has a highly effective achievements are set out in more 2016 and ensure the Board leads executive management team, detail in Rupert Soames Chief by example.
a deeply committed workforce Executive's Review on pages 34 that cares passionately about As part of my induction I have to 42. public service delivery, and a clear now visited a number of contracts strategy to transform the business In our Corporate Governance and spent considerable time with and position it for success in Report on pages 85 to 143, you divisional management teams and attractive markets.
Once our will be able to read about the the executive committee.
As well transformation is completed over actions, systems and processes as being able to see first-hand the course of 2016 and 2017, we put in place during 2015 to the unwavering commitment to expect to make good progress deliver stronger, more effective public service, this has helped on restoring the growth, margins governance, organisational me build an understanding of the and returns of the business.
In the last am confident that the collective This also covers how Serco is year your Board has also spent actions being taken will ensure overseeing delivery and alignment time seeing Serco in action as well that Serco is fully restored as a of responsibilities across all areas as benefiting from involvement in superb provider of public services of governance, risk management dedicated sessions to appraise that everyone will be proud to be and corporate responsibility.
budgets, forecasts and strategic associated with.
My induction has also As Chair of the Board Oversight benefited from meeting a number Committee, one of my first of Sercos major shareholders.
tasks was to receive a detailed Sir Roy Gardner briefing on the Corporate The need to recapitalise the Chairman Renewal Programme.
I have business through the Rights Issue been impressed by the actions in early 2015, in order for Serco to being taken to deliver renewal, be in a position to rebuild a future, by the independent oversight has meant Sercos shareholders we have put in place to ensure have suffered greatly in terms the programme is fully carried of lost value.
As set out at the out, and that the responsibilities time of the Rights Issue, 2016 will
