Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 What we do Severn Trent provides clean water and waste water services in the UK and internationally through our regulated and non-regulated businesses Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
Regulated Severn Trent Water Further details are provided on page 18 About us Wholesale water One of the largest of the 10 regulated water and sewerage companies in and waste operations England and Wales.
We provide high Retail services quality services to more than 3.3 million households and businesses in the Midlands and mid-Wales.
Where we operate Key facts Our region stretches across the heart of the UK, Turnover from the Bristol Channel to the Humber, and from mid-Wales to the East Midlands.
Households and businesses serviced 3.3m Litres of drinking water supplied each day 1.8bn Litres of waste water collected per day 1.4bn Employees 5,181 as at 31 March 2015 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Non-regulated Severn Trent Services Further details are provided on page 32 About us UK Operating Services incl.
Italy and Ireland UK Operating Services UK Operating Services provides contract services to municipal and industrial clients and the UK US Operating Services Ministry of Defence MOD for design, build and operation of water and waste water treatment Renewable Energy facilities and networks.
Retail services are also provided to UK businesses.
US Operating Services US Operating Services provides contract services to community, municipal and industrial clients for the operation and maintenance of water and waste water treatment facilities and networks.
Where we operate Severn Trent Services includes our core non-regulated businesses operating in the UK, Americas and Europe.
Key facts Turnover 216.3m 2014: 210.2m Profit 2014: 13.3m restated Before interest, tax and exceptional items.
Restated to classify Water Purification as a discontinued operation.
9.7m Employees 1,853 as at 31 March 2015 Renewable Energy Severn Trents non-regulated business already generates renewable energy from wind turbines, hydro power and anaerobic digestion AD of crops.
We have now expanded into the food waste AD market, and have plans to add solar technology as our fifth source of energy generation.
