Chairmans review LEADING THE WAY Throughout 2015, Ive had the privilege of listening to Shire people as they talk about the future.
Ive heard the stories that are driving our business forward.
Ivealso watched as one Shire team afteranother presented ideas and possibilities, often in novel, even moving ways.
This is a passionate and highly promising organization.
I see and hearthis passion and promise in mydaily interactions.
4 Shire Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our purpose as a company is to enable We at Shire take a responsible, transparent people with life-altering conditions to lead and sustainable approach to our business.
Our focus is on building In 2015 we were once again confirmed as a long-term sustainable value for shareholders constituent company in the FTSE4Good as a global biotechnology company while Index, which measures globally recognized balancing the needs of all our stakeholders standards for corporate responsibility.
We including patients, employees, partners, were also ranked as the #2 greenest payers, physicians and regulators.
We aim company in the world according to to be the world leader in rare diseases and Newsweek magazine.
This year we held a leading global biotechnology and as a our first Global Day of Service, raised result of our clear focus on innovation, awareness for rare diseases, improved efficiency, growth and people, we are well on access to our therapies, participated in our way to achieving this goal.
industry-wide roundtables, presented new research at world conferences, and Looking ahead, our announced furthered the dialogue about patient health.
combination with Baxalta Incorporated Baxalta, which at closing would create Id like to welcome the many individuals the worlds leading biotech company who have joined Shire around the world focused on rare diseases, and provide a since the beginning of the year.
They have platform for sustainable innovation, growth joined a company with a strong identity and value creation.
This is an exciting time and sense of purpose, and a high for Shire and Baxalta alike, and is great performance culture that rewards creativity, news for our current and futurerare innovation and delivering results.
perspectives and experiences of these newcolleagues will no doubt add new Weve had a The Shire 2015 Annual Report provides dimensions and depth to the innovation details of our key activities for the year.
weare seeing across the business.
remarkable year at Inthis letter I highlight those events and accolades that I believe demonstrate Shire also has great leadership.
We have been ourleadership and our commitment to Flemming Ornskov, MD was named by ourpatients.
Harvard Business Review in October as successful in driving one of the 100 Best-Performing CEOs in We have been successful in driving the the World.
I would like to thank Flemming the business forward business forward through original research, for his vision, leadership and exceptional creative acquisitions and novel licensing dedication to the company.
through original agreements, advancing our innovative pipeline.
In 2016, our pipeline will be Id also like to recognize the Board of research, creative comprised of 29 programs in clinical Directors for their contributions, insights development, with 14 in Phase 3 or and rigorous approach in challenging and acquisitions and novel planned to enter Phase 3 in 2016. assessing Shires activities over the course of the year.
In particular, Id like to thank licensing agreements.
Completed acquisitions including David Kappler, Deputy Chairman and NPSPharmaceuticals, Inc. NPS Senior Independent Director, who will retire Pharma, Dyax Corp. Dyax, Foresight at the 2016 AGM, for his many years of Biotherapeutics Inc. Foresight, and exceptional service.
Meritage Pharma, Inc. Meritage, and new research partnerships such as those In 2015, two Non-Executive Directors with Foundation Fighting Blindness and the joined our Board Olivier Bohuon, Chief Cincinnati Childrens Hospital, will help Executive Officer at Smith & Nephew, plc, usmake a real difference to the lives and Sara Mathew, who, until 2013, served ofpatients.
as Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Dun & Bradstreet.
2015 brought good news for the millions Jeffrey Poulton also joined the Board this ofadults in the US with Binge Eating year on his promotion to Chief Financial Disorder BED.
With the Food and Drug Officer.
You can read more about the Administration FDA approval of Board in my corporate governance report VYVANSE for the treatment of moderate on page 64. tosevere BED in adults, physicians now have an effective treatment for a widely Weve had a remarkable year at Shire, and unmet need.
Ive felt extraordinarily privileged to play a role in this companys emergence as a true global leader.
I wish to thank all of those who are making this company what it is and what it will continue to become.
Susan Kilsby Chairman Shire Annual Report 2015 5
