Chairmans Statement Determined to get performance back on track by refocusing on sales, reducing our cost base and growing our value added businesses lESlIE VAN fide wAllE Chairman While 2015 was a challenging year for the Group, we Following the appointment of Andrea Abt as a Nonmade good progress on the Strategic initiatives and our Executive Director on 12 March 2015, i am pleased to infill acquisition programme.
report that we achieved our aim to reach 25% female representation among the Boards membership.
Going forward we are determined to get performance As part of the Board succession plan, the Nominations back on track by refocusing on sales, reducing our cost base and growing our value added businesses.
Committee has reviewed the positions of Chris Geoghegan and Jonathan Nicholls.
STRATEGY Having noted their significant experience and Our goal is to be the leading specialist solutions provider contributions to the Board, the Committee concluded that to the construction industry.
To achieve this we are they be invited to serve for a further term of office until the focused on three key strategic priorities.
May 2017 AGM, prior to which a search for new NonFirst, we are seeking to continuously improve our Executive Directors will take place.
The Group has made excellent progress over the last two years, but there is much more OUR PEOPLE to do.
This initiative is also gathering additional impetus On behalf of the Board and Shareholders i would like to through the appointment of our new Group Procurement thank our employees for their dedication and continued Director, Ruxandra ispas, who is providing fresh thinking.
hard work during the year.
Second, we are reshaping our supply chain by adopting i would also like to welcome Christian Horn to SiG as its a two-step change strategy, with an ultimate goal of new Group Operations Director, a role which sits on the reducing our cost to serve by 50m.
Christian joined SiG in December 2015 and was previously Senior Vice President Finally, we are continuing to grow our value added for Staples Europe.
sales, which currently account for 18% of sales.
Offsite Construction and Air Handling will be important growth DIVIDEND drivers of this category.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2.91p per ordinary share.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 1.69p per ordinary share, this provides a total dividend of 4.60p per ordinary share for the year 2014: 4.40p, an increase of 4.5%.
Going forward the Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy while maintaining a dividend cover of 2-3x on an underlying basis over the mediumterm.
GOVERNANCE AND BOARD As Chairman i am responsible for ensuring good corporate governance and that we continually aspire to meet the lESlIE VAN fide wAllE highest standards possible at SiG.
Further details can be Chairman found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 59 to 71. www.
