Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Chairmans statement 2015 has been a transformational year for Sky.
With the acquisition of the businesses in Germany and Italy, the Company has moved beyond the boundaries of the UK and Ireland to create a world-class pay TV operation.
Nick Ferguson, CBE 2 1 1 New office campus, Osterley, Sky UK 2 Opening of Sky Academy Skills Studios, Livingston, Sky UK 3 Offices, Milan, Sky Italia 02 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Against the backdrop of a fast-moving industry, we have brought in Europe, supporting 128,000 jobs across its five territories and together the three leaders in their respective markets, positioning investing 4.9 billion in quality news, sports and entertainment the enlarged group to take advantage of new opportunities at scale.
In addition, it contributes 7.6 billion to GDP across the five countries and generates 3.4 billion in tax revenues, of which We see the potential to launch new products and services that a total of 2.3 billion goes to the UK Exchequer Oxford Economics.
will reach customers in more ways than ever before and create enhanced value for shareholders.
Sky is also committed to using its position as Europes leading entertainment company to make a positive impact on society.
On behalf of the Board, it gives me great pleasure to take this Across the enlarged group, the focus is on using the Companys opportunity to welcome our colleagues from Sky Deutschland strengths in TV, creativity and sport to support young people and Sky Italia to the group.
We look forward to all that you can and help them to realise their full potential.
achieve together as part of a bigger team.
I have been privileged in the course of the year to be present at To recognise the expanded international scope of the Company, we the launch of two new initiatives for Sky Academy in the UK and have changed our name from British Sky Broadcasting simply to Sky.
Ireland: the Careers Lab in West London and the new Skills Studios Throughout, the Company has continued to deliver strong growth, in Scotland.
Nearly two years after launching Sky Academy, achieving excellent results both operationally and financially.
were delighted with the progress were making.
Our colleagues The performance for the year shows good momentum across in Germany and Italy also have a focus on young people and the group as more customers choose to join Sky and take more we see a real opportunity to share learning across our territories of our products, for use at home or on the move.
and to strengthen our engagement with young people in the The fact that these results have been achieved at a time of such next few years.
change for the Company demonstrates the strength and focus Moving onto the business of the Board: as announced last year, of the management team.
It is also proof that the actions taken Andy Higginson retired from the Board in November after 10 years, in recent years to invest in the quality of the customer experience the last two of which he held the role of Senior Independent are delivering returns.
He was succeeded in this role by Martin Gilbert.
Reflecting the Companys excellent performance, the Board has Furthermore, at the conclusion of this years AGM in November, proposed a 3% increase in the dividend to 32.8 pence.
This is the David DeVoe, Danny Rimer and Arthur Siskind will step down from 11th consecutive year of growth.
Immediately following the AGM, it is intended that John As a successful and growing business, the enlarged Sky makes Nallen, CFO of 21st Century Fox, will be appointed by the Board as a an important economic contribution to the countries in which Non-Executive Director.
As a result of these proposed changes, the it operates.
It acts as a powerhouse for the creative industries number of Board members would reduce from 14 to 12.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to offer my warmest thanks to David DeVoe, Danny Rimer and Arthur Siskind for their major contribution to the Company over many years.
All three have been excellent colleagues.
Arthur joined the Board in 1991, David in 1994 and Danny in 2008 and each has been a source of sound advice throughout.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our shareholders for their continued support, in particular through the completion of such a significant transaction.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank every one of my colleagues across the business for their hard work and contribution to what has been an excellent year for Sky.
Nick Ferguson, CBE 3 Sky plc 03
