Chairmans statement Smiths Group has delivered a robust performance in an uncertain and challenging trading environment.
Its diversity of markets and geographies provides both scope for business growth and security against adverse trading conditions.
Sir George Buckley Chairman Strength through diversity only on margin.
We will continue to invest turnaround in the US housing market and The broad diversity of Smiths Group has in innovation with the goal of achieving the picture is complete: much of what again proved invaluable in offering both long-term sustainable competiveness and makes the modern world go round is built, scope for business growth and security we believe that higher growth will ultimately supplied and serviced by Smiths Group.
against the tough trading conditions that still come if we do.
The theme of your Annual Report this year persist in many markets.
Delivering such There is no shortage of positives to is the comprehensive scope of end markets a resilient performance amid significant encourage the Group, its employees and that feature our products.
Largely unseen management change is all the more investors.
Smiths Medical has reported its they may be, but these products touch the remarkable and our employees deserve best sales performance in almost a decade lives of millions of people every minute of great credit for their professionalism as revenues benefited from consistent every day.
As a consequence, the world is a andcommitment.
investment in innovative infusion therapies.
healthier, safer and more dynamic place and While John Crane, a consistently strong And we will do more.
Smiths Detection is we should all be proud of our contribution.
performer in recent years, has shown signs also back on track after a difficult trading Anatomy of a successful business of slowing sales as energy prices fall, its period and as I said earlier, John Crane has In my experience, the defining features of concentration in the aftermarket ought to demonstrated the strength of its business truly great companies are readily identified ultimately ease pressure on sales as the model, as its compelling aftermarket though never easy to achieve.
Such practice of deferring plant maintenance offering helped to underpin its performance, businesses must boast products, qualities eventually runs out.
Other businesses despite the weakening petrochemical or brands that mark them out from the herd like Smiths Medical have strengthened market.
While Smiths Interconnect has and allow them to deliver steadily expanding tohelp the Group maintain a steady overall struggled this year with delays to some market share at equal or bettering margins.
The scale of the challenge programmes and with certain customers, In the case of an engineering company we still face, however, is highlighted by the Flex-Tek has again delivered a robust like Smiths, innovation is crucial to drive recent results of our engineering peers, performance with further growth.
growth and I am pleased to see we have which show many struggling to deliver We are also fortunate in managing again prioritised investment in inventing and consistent revenue growth.
In addition, businesses that serve a wide range of developing new products for existing and the turmoil in global markets that began new markets.
markets, all with inherent positive attributes in August underlines the fragility of and long-term growth potential.
Another hallmark of a great company is prices are under pressure for now, the theability to deliver steady improvements The portrait of many British engineering economic logic for producers to regulate inemployee and customer satisfaction companies is one of high margins and production and to allow oil prices to float year in, year out.
Under Philip Bowmans stagnant growth.
Clearly these varied back up again is compelling.
Demand for leadership, Smiths has made significant businesses are run very efficiently to energy is still increasing.
Ageing populations progress in enhancing employee achieve the high margins, but the magic need additional medical care, particularly engagement through its regular MyVoice ofinnovation and the higher organic growth in developing countries that are growing surveys which have typically exceeded an that ultimately comes from it, has still not more affluent.
Terror threats show no sign 80% participation rate.
Each division has been fully tapped by Smiths.
Investing in ofabating across the world.
The expansion also carried out in-depth market perception invention and innovation certainly introduces of wireless devices and applications is a studies to improve the customer intimacy a level of uncertainty in R&D outcomes, but hi-tech wonder to behold.
Add the needs that is crucial to providing world-class it always beats the alternative of focusing of new fuel-efficient aircraft and the products and service.
12 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 The growth imperative of ensuring global supplier compliance great British engineering company, one Great businesses are also distinguished was underlined by the launch of a code ofthe few to rival Smiths in historic legacy, by relentless above-peer growth, and one of practice specifically for contractors to global reach and technological excellence.
major legacy of Philips leadership is that ensure their ethics standards match our Having entered industry as an apprentice, Smiths has now repositioned itself for own.
Wemade further progress in meeting he will bring us a wealth of invaluable accelerated top-line growth.
Momentum medium-term environmental targets for experience.
He will have the support has been maintained by a cross-divisional reductions in energy, greenhouse gas of a newly appointed Finance Director, programme focusing on four specific areas: emissions, waste and water consumption.
ChrisOShea, whose broad understanding sales and marketing excellence: quality of international finance roles, particularly Managing a diversified set of businesses improvement: customer-led innovation: in the energy sector, will complement the I have already touched on the advantages and expansion in China.
Engineered for in-depth engineering skills of the new CEO.
of a diversified business whose products Growth builds on the sterling work already Wewarmly welcome them both to Smiths.
cover a range of industry sectors and done in boosting new product development, geographies and so help smooth the I am also sorry that David Challen has expanding our footprint in higher growth impact of economic cycles and fluctuations decided to step down after the AGM.
markets and extending technology and in regional growth.
However for its size, Davidhas been an excellent non-executive product offerings through acquisitions.
Smiths is a highly complex group and your director, serving the Board for 11 years, first Such expansion requires an unrelenting Board is duty-bound to regularly review as Chair of the Audit Committee and more focus on working capital efficiency.
The good whether it is the best owner of all our recently as Senior Independent Director.
cash conversion and low capital intensity of businesses.
Consolidating the strongest TheBoard has benefited from his insight our businesses help underpin our ability to divisions through targeted acquisitions and and expertise and he will be sorely missed.
invest in organic growth and acquisitions.
possibly exiting others over time would Under the new management team, However, there is no room for complacency greatly simplify its structure.
In parallel we Smiths embarks on the latest leg of a and we must continue to improve the would seek to minimise any value leakage remarkable journey that began in a small cash use and conversion characteristics from the legacy liabilities of our defined London workshop 164 years ago.
benefit pension schemes and product reinvented ourselves many times, but always liability litigation.
This approach is driven by Operational excellence is also a central around a core of dynamic businesses and three objectives: enhanced organic growth: priority in helping to fund these growth creativity that pursued sustained, achievable expansion and strengthening of our bestinitiatives.
We have begun to rationalise growth.
Today is no different and the results performing businesses: and streamlining our manufacturing footprint, streamline detailed in this Annual Report testify the the rest through prune and graft management and further upgrade our IT determination of our employees to uphold divestments and bolt-on acquisitions.
systems to maximise informed decisionthis long and distinguished heritage.
A tight rein on costs is essential and Leadership changes Onbehalf of the Board, I thank all employees John Crane, for instance, has already started The innate strength of an organisation can for their support and ask them to show the to cut discretionary spending to manage the often be gauged by its ability to manage same outstanding level of commitment business through the cyclical oil downturn.
change and, as I mentioned in my opening tothe new leadership team.
remarks, Smiths has emerged from a year As ever, our people hold the key to the Sir George Buckley of some uncertainty in good shape.
I would future through their talent, hard work and Chairman like to thank Philip and former Finance commitment.
These qualities, harnessed Director, Peter Turner, for their valued to commercially minded research and contribution to Smiths Group.
The Board is technological excellence, nurture the very sorry to see them leave and I am sure motivation needed to drive Smiths towards you will join me in wishing them well for its goal of becoming a world-class business thefuture.
We want people to want to work for Smiths.
Philip has delivered improved margins, cash and returns through one of the worst Behaving ethically, working safely and economic recessions in memory.
There gradually reducing our environmental is no doubt he leaves the business in impact help create long-term shareholder substantially better shape than when he value.
Promoting these goals through joined.
But change also brings opportunity employee engagement remains a central and I am delighted to welcome someone of priority.
Lost time incidents were maintained the calibre of Andrew Reynolds Smith as our at their record low levels.
Our Code of new Chief Executive.
The Board was keen Business Ethics was reinforced through to appoint an engineer or scientist with a expanded online access and the fourth proven track record of growing a business global ethics forum was held in Berlin, through organic investment and M&A.
It is focusing on individual responsibility of doubly fitting that he joins us from another all employees.
The growing importance Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2015 13 Accounts Governance Strategic report Risks and responsibility Strategic report Operational review Strategic report Strategic overview
