S SM MIIT TH & N H & NE EP PH HE EW A W AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 15 5 w ww ww.
w. s sm miit th h- -n ne ep ph he ew.
w. c co om m 2 O OVE VER RVI VIE EW W O OU UR R B BU US SINE INES SS S O OU UR R P PE ER RF FORM ORMA ANC NCE E G GO OVE VER RN NAN ANC CE E O OU UR R FI FINAN NANC CIA IAL LS S CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A strong performance, demonstrating our actions are translating into positive outcomes Members of the Board also attend significant Dear Shareholder, Strategy management meetings.
For instance, during We have continued to pursue the same I am delighted to present Smith & 2015, I attended the Managing Directors strategy as in previous years, building a strong meeting and Robin Freestone attended the Nephews 2015 Annual Report.
During position in Established Markets, focusing CEO led meeting for top talent.
We also attend the year the Group made good financial on Emerging Markets, innovating for value, investor presentations.
The increase simplifying and improving our operating model and supplementing organic growth with in underlying revenue growth, trading acquisitions.
The Boards oversight ensures Corporate governance profit margin and adjusted earnings that management remains focused on these As a Board, we feel strongly that good year-on-year reflect managements strategic priorities and that investments are corporate governance lies at the heart of a wellactions to improve both our commercial made in line with these objectives run Company.
Openness and transparency, performance and operational efficiency.
In 2015, the Board has continued our accountability and responsibility should run programme of understanding the business through everything that we do, both as a Board Revenue was $4.6 billion, up 4% on an more deeply.
We scheduled a number of and throughout the business as a whole.
The underlying basis before adjusting for currency sessions at the Board meetings held in 2015 Board and I aim to set the tone at the top which and the benefits from acquisitions.
Trading looking at different aspects of our business, pervades throughout the organisation.
The trading profit margin including reviews of our European business Later in this report, as well as the standard was 23.7%, up 80bps on the previous year.
with a focus on Iberia, our Emerging Markets corporate governance disclosures we are Adjusted earnings per share were 85.1, business with a focus on China, and the required to make, you will find reports from Ian up 2%.
development of products for the mid-tier.
Our Barlow, Michael Friedman, myself and Joseph Board site visit to Durban, South Africa gave The Board is proposing a final dividend for the Papa, the Chairmen of our Board Committees us insights into one of our oldest and fastest year of 19.0 per share, giving a total dividend on the activities of these committees growing overseas businesses.
distribution for 2015 of 30.8, up 4% year-onthroughout the year pages 68 to 79.
These year and slightly ahead of earnings growth, Our annual Strategy Review in September reports explain where we focused our work in reflecting our confidence in the business.
included presentations and discussions on a 2015 and our plans for 2016. wide range of different areas of our business.
This meeting underpins our confidence Risk management and in managements strategic priorities and future progress.
the Viability Statement During 2015, we spent time considering what work would need to be done to make us feel comfortable in making the new Viability Statement.
Both the Board and the Audit Committee received papers from the Group Risk Officer during the year and we discussed risk in depth at our Annual Strategy Meeting in September.
Smith & Nephews transformation is delivering stronger growth.
