CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WELL POSITIONED FOR 2016 AND BEYOND Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman Results overview performance being insufficient to offset the interim dividend of 17.3 pence per share, gives Reported sales increased 1% in 2015 to combined effect of increased investment in atotal of 49.5 pence per share for the year, an 1,190.0 million, with a three percentage point research and development R&D programmes increase of 6%.
The dividend is covered 2.3 times.
pp contribution from acquisitions offset by an and overhead cost inflation.
Given the trading This is consistent with our policy of making adverse impact from foreign currency exchange conditions, we initiated a number of cost progressive dividend payments based upon movements.
On a constant currency organic reduction measures during 2015, including affordability and sustainability.
The dividend will 1 like-for-like, LFL basis sales were unchanged.
selective restructuring in certain businesses.
The be paid on 24 June 2016 to shareholders on the combined effect of a reduction in restructuring register at the close of business on 27 May 2016.
Regionally, there was good growth in Europe, charges and incremental benefits arising from where sales increased 3%, and sales to Asia that restructuring activity is anticipated to result Strategy, governance and values increased slightly.
Sales to North America in a net increase in adjusted operating profit of During 2015, the Group announced its refined declined 2% and sales to the Rest of the World approximately 10 million in 2016 as compared strategy to give an increased focus on selected declined 9%, principally driven by weakness with 2015. growth opportunities.
The main refinement to the inRussia.
strategy is a shift in emphasis from the supply of Financial position and dividend products towards the provision of complete Sales grew 3% in the Materials Analysis Operating cash flow was strong, with 91% of solutions to our customers.
segment, whilst sales across the Test and ouroperating profit being converted into cash.
Measurement and In-line Instrumentation Combined with normal dividend and tax The Board has continued to emphasise the segments were unchanged.
Sales declined 7% outflowsand the consideration paid for the five strong relationship that exists between inthe Industrial Controls segment, impacted by acquisitions made during the year, this resulted governance and ethics.
Our ethics and values the broad-based deterioration in trading in the innet debt decreasing 27.0 million compared are central to Spectris, guiding our decisionmaking and ensuring that we always comply North American manufacturing sector.
At year end, net debt stood with the highest standards, wherever we are in detail on the performance of the business at 98.6 million, around 0.5 times the full-year the world.
We want to be a company which our segments can be found in the Operating Review.
people are proud to work for, where they feel 2 valued, motivated and capable of reaching their On a reported basis, adjusted operating profit The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of full potential.
To emphasise our strong ethical declined 9% to 181.1 million, with the sales 32.2 pence per share which, combined with the 04 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 culture we have launched the Spectris Integrity INVESTMENT ATTRIBUTES Award to recognise and reward outstanding ethical behaviour by our employees.
Broad geographical and endSpectris offers investors a details about this award can be found in the market exposures, 40% of sales soundand attractive investment Ethics Report on page 49.
Further information generated from customer on the Boards governance activities during operating expenditure budgets proposition, based on the 2015and its priorities for 2016 can be found Broad spread of customers, end markets following attributes that intheChairmans Introduction to Corporate and geographies limits the risk to the Group Governance on page 59. combine to deliver significant from adverse changes in any single geography or end market.
Board composition 40% of sales generated from customer Lisa Davis will retire as a Non-executive Director operating expenditure budgets or of Spectris plc immediately following the Annual aftermarketsales.
High barriers to entry supported General Meeting on 20 May 2016.
Following her bycontinuous innovation and promotion to the Siemens AG managing board 4.
Strong cash conversion long-term customer relationships last year Lisa no longer feels able to give sufficient resultingfrom asset-light Strong intellectual property and continuous commitment to Spectris.
We would like to thank manufacturing model innovation, underpinned by sustained Lisa for the significant contribution she has made Majority of manufacturing is outsourced, investment of around 7% of sales each year to the Spectris Boardduring the last two years.
resulting in low capital requirements for in R&D and by frequent bolt-on acquisitions.
Long-term customer relationships, based on Summary and outlook High gross margins and low capital our direct selling model and aftermarket 2015 was characterised by mixed trading requirements result in strong business, result in high levels of repeat conditions, with growth in Europe and Asia .
business over 80% of sales in any one year offset by a challenging environment in North are generated from customers who have America and the Rest of the World.
Balance sheet strength enabling purchased from us within the last two years.
ontrack with the restructuring measures progressive dividend policy Application expertise: our people have announced last July.
The benefits of these, Strong cash conversion enables the Company in-depth know-how and expertise in their together with our focus on operational tosustain a progressive dividend policy chosen fields.
excellence initiatives, will enable us to better 10%CAGR since 1988 flotation whilst High gross margins, supported by astable align cost growth with sales growth in 2016 maintaining a strong balance sheet.
whilst continuing to invest in our core R&D Investments evaluated on cash flow return programmes.
New product launches and on invested capital basis, measuring return 2.
Focus on customer solutions acquisitions are expected to continue to play an on investment against weighted average inniche markets with important role in the Groups development and cost of capital.
 these investments, together with our broad Strong cash conversion and balance sheet Enhancing productivity for customers is end-market exposures and strong financial ensure considerable financial firepower anever-present growth driver for all of position, provide the Board of Spectris with andflexibility to fund acquisitions.
confidence that the Company is well positioned We are increasingly focussed not just on for 2016 and beyond.
Proven acquisition model to thesupply of equipment but on the supplement organic growth provision of innovative customer solutions, Dr John Hughes CBE Acquisitions have been a key component involving services, software and related Chairman ofour growth strategy for many years, activities.
historically contributing 3-4 pp of We are also focussed on exploiting 1 Unless otherwise stated, references to sales increases salesgrowth per annum: typically bolt-on disruptive growth themes to enhanceour decreases going forward relate to the LFL sales increase innature, occasionally stand-alone own growth prospects.
decrease rather than the reported sales increase decrease.
2 Unless otherwise stated, figures quoted for operating profit, Our existing niche markets continue to offer net interest, profit before tax, tax, earnings per share and significant opportunities, whilst we will also operating cash flow are adjusted measures for an consider acquisitions as away of exploiting explanation of adjusted figures and reconciliation to disruptive growththemes.
thestatutory reported figures see Note 2 to the FinancialStatements.
