Strategic Report Chairmans statement I am pleased to report a solid set of results in 2015 against a background of progressive deterioration in the rate of global industrial production growth.
Bill Whiteley Chairman Adjusted operating profit increased by The interim dividend for 2015, which was Key points in this section: 4% at constant currency to 152.4 million.
paid on 6th November 2015, was raised Profit was strongly ahead in by 6.7% to 20.8p per share 2014: 19.5p Organic sales increased by Watson-Marlow.
In the steam specialties per share.
The Board is recommending 2% to 667.2 million business, there was good progress at an increase in the final dividend of 7.1% to constant currency in EMEA, largely offset 48.2p per share 2014: 45.0p, with a total Adjusted operating profit by a reduction in Asia Pacific: the Americas of 35 million payable on 27th May 2016 to increased by 4% at constant was flat.
Unfavourable currency movements shareholders on the register at 29th April currency to 152.4 million reduced Group operating profit by 4%, 2016.
The total Ordinary dividend for the leaving reported profit broadly flat compared year, subject to approval by shareholders Unfavourable currency with operating profit of 153.0 million in at the AGM on 10th May 2016 of the final movements reduced sales 2014.
The adjusted operating profit margin proposed dividend, is therefore 69.0p per and operating profit by 4% improved by 40 bps at constant currency, share, an increase of 7.0% over the 64.5p toa record 22.8%.
per share for the prior year.
The proposed Adjusted operating profit dividend is in line with the Groups dividend Net finance costs reduced from 3.0 million margin improved to a record policy, which is to progressively increase to 1.5 million but the total income from 22.8% the dividend to appropriately reflect the Associates reduced from 1.2 million to underlying trading performance, the 0.2 million due to the sale in March 2015 Increase in the total Ordinary maintenance of a healthy dividend cover, of our investment in India, ahead of the dividend of 7% to 69.0p the level of cash generation and the capital start-up of our wholly owned direct sales pershare requirements of the business.
The Group adjusted pre-tax profit was therefore 151.1 million, 4% Governance and Board Unless otherwise stated, all profit measures exclude ahead at constant currency.
Adjusted basic changes certain non-operational items, as set out and explained earnings per share was ahead 2% at 142.6p in the Financial review and in Note 2 on page 130.
In October 2015, we announced that David Organic measures are at constant currency and exclude 2014: 140.4p and was up 6% at constant acquisitions and disposals.
Meredith will retire at the conclusion of currency, in part due to the number of the AGM on 10th May 2016 after nearly shares in issue being reduced by 3.6% 24 years as Group Finance Director and Performance with effect from 15th June 2015, following after a total of 27 years of service to the the special dividend and associated share Organic sales increased by nearly 2% Group.
On behalf of our shareholders consolidation of 28 existing Ordinary shares to 667.2 million.
Additional sales from the Board acknowledges with gratitude into 27 new Ordinary shares.
acquisitions were broadly matched by the significant contribution to the Groups a reduction from the disposal of M&M The pre-tax profit on a statutory basis was growth and prosperity made by David over International M&M in the period, with a net 139.7 million 2014: 144.8 million and multiple economic cycles.
During his time contribution of 0.5%.
Currency movements includes a number of non-operational items with the Company, Davids knowledge were again unfavourable, reducing sales explained more fully in Note 2.
The statutory and experience have been instrumental on translation by 4%, leaving reported basic earnings per share was 129.9p in helping to guide the business through sales down 2% compared with sales of 2014: 132.8p.
significant changes and challenges, earning 678.3 million in 2014.
We achieved strong him the highest respect from shareholders, 9% organic sales growth in our Cash and dividends the Board and colleagues.
We understand Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group Cash generation was robust, with very Davids desire to step down after such a WMFTG or Watson-Marlow spread across good cash conversion and we finished the long and successful period of service and all regions, while the Spirax Sarco steam year with net cash of 5 million, despite the wish him the very best in this new chapter specialties business was flat, with progress payment of 91 million on 15th July 2015 in of his life.
in Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA respect of the special dividend for 2014 of and the Americas offset by a decline in 120p per share.
Special dividend Spirax Sarco 2012 restated for IAS 19 R, earlier years adjusted FTSE 350 Industrial Goods and Services on an estimated basis.
As previously announced, we are pleased We value and celebrate the individual We have a robust and resilient business that Kevin Boyd will join the Company on contributions to the solid results in 2015. model and, provided there is no material 11th April 2016 and succeed David as deterioration in trading conditions, the Board Group Finance Director and Executive expects to make progress in 2016.
Kevin is both Steam as a heat source, and niche pumps a Chartered Accountant and a Chartered and associated uid path technologies, Engineer and is currently Group Finance are widely used across different industry Director of Oxford Instruments plc, the We confirm that to the sectors, geographic regions and customers.
leading provider of high technology best of our knowledge: This leads to our markets being strongly instrumentation, with sales broadly spread inuenced by the level of industrial around the world across a number of The Financial Statements, prepared production and changes in its rate of growth sectors and listed on the London Stock in accordance with the applicable set during the year, with a typical time-lag of a Exchange.
He is a highly experienced of accounting standards, give a true few quarters.
Global industrial production Finance Director with a strong international and fair view of the assets, liabilities, growth progressively slowed from mid-2014, track record.
Previous experience included financial position and profit or loss of reaching no growth by the end of 2015, with Group Finance Director of Radstone the Company and the undertakings the deceleration noticeably more marked Technology plc and before that he held included in the consolidation taken in emerging markets.
The likely path of senior finance positions with TI Group now as a whole.
global industrial production growth remains Smiths Group plc.
Kevin is a Non-Executive uncertain, with successive projected upturns The Annual Report for 2015, taken Director of EMIS Group plc.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and During the year an independent Board understandable, and provides We have historically outperformed our effectiveness review was undertaken by the information necessary for markets, increasing sales ahead of Dr Long CBE of Boardroom Review Ltd. shareholders to assess the Groups general market growth, whilst exhibiting Following this review, we have placed performance, business model considerable resilience in more difficult increased emphasis on Board succession and strategy.
Our strategy planning to ensure the Board is refreshed is focused on self-generated growth, in accordance with the Code.
By starting The Directors have a reasonable to reduce our reliance on the market.
this work now, we will achieve a phased expectation that the Company will Our strategic initiatives are targeted at approach for the succession of key roles be able to continue in operation increasing the effectiveness of our highly over the next few years, with adequate and meet its liabilities as they fall trained direct sales force, broadening our handover periods to ensure a smooth due over the three-year period to geographic presence, leveraging our new transition.
We are committed to appropriate 31stDecember 2018.
For the full product development and optimising our engagement with shareholders throughout Viability statement, see page 111. supply chain.
We are investing resources the process.
into these strategic priorities and developing The Strategic Report was approved a more sector-aligned organisation.
Employees by the Board on 2nd March 2016.
In 2016, we will benefit from the full-year On behalf of the Board, I thank all our Signed by: effect of the actions taken in 2015 to reduce employees in the 57 countries around the costs and will reinvest these benets in world in which we have a direct presence.
the execution of our strategy for growth, Our strategy for growth recognises that Bill Whiteley including the creation of the new Spirax people are our most important asset Chairman Academy.
If recent exchange rates prevail and through their dedication, hard work on behalf of the Board of Directors for the remainder of the year, sales will and personal advancement, we achieve 2nd March 2016 increase by 3% on translation into sterling success for all stakeholders in the business.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 3 Annual Report 2015 Value of hypothetical 100 holding Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
