2 Strategic report Chairmans statement A strong performance in 2015 I am pleased to report that the Group performed strongly in 2015.
In this, our first full year as a listed company, we capitalised on the positive underlying trends in our markets to deliver growth in revenue of 4.3% and underlying operating profit of 17.6% both on a constant currency basis, and an increase in earnings per share of 19.4% on a proforma basis.
We continued to invest in the business to deliver sustainable growth in the future, increasing capital expenditure, and strengthening central, regional and local teams to support the implementation of our strategy.
At the same time, we further reduced our net debt, as a result of the strongly cash generative nature of our business.
We also announced a number of major contract wins in the year, which will extend our presence in the important North American and Asia Pacific markets, and further strengthen and diversify our leading market positions.
Dividend Given the Groups strong performance, and in line with the progressive policy outlined at the time of our IPO, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend of 2.2 pence per share subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 4 March 2016, making a total dividend for the year of 4.3 pence per share.
Sustainability SSP is committed to operating sustainably in its markets, and in our last report we undertook to give more detail on how we do this and how we measure our performance.
This is set out on pages 22 to 25.
Our initiatives are wide-ranging, and whilst there is further work to be done, I believe we made good progress in 2015.
Board composition There have been two changes to the Board during the year.
In June, following the sale of the remainder of EQT IV Limiteds shareholding, Per Franzn, EQTs nominated director, resigned as a non-executive director.
In July, we were delighted to welcome Per Utnegaard to the Board as a non-executive director.
His significant management experience in a number of senior pan-European and global positions, as well as his substantial knowledge of the international airport sector, will be highly complementary to the balance of skills on our Board.
Our employees and stakeholders The Groups strong performance reflects the dedication of the Groups employees and their skills, experience and commitment, as well as the relationships we have built with our customers, clients, suppliers, business partners and shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of them for their continued support over the past year.
Outlook I believe that SSP is well positioned to take advantage of the significant opportunities available in its Vagn Srensen markets, and the Board looks forward to the coming year with optimism.
