Strategic Report Chairmans statement Lord Smith of Kelvin Focused on the needs of customers and investors SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy Throughout these events, SSE had three in the UK and Ireland over the long term.
I am people need in a reliable and sustainable priorities: work constructively with legislators, pleased that the Board is recommending a final way.
In fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires the regulators, consumer bodies and other dividend that will take the full-year dividend support of shareholders, to whom this report is stakeholders to secure practical changes that for 2014 15 to 88.4 pence per share: and I am addressed.
It summarises SSEs performance in will benefit energy bill payers now and in the equally pleased that SSEs commitment to future 2014 15 and looks ahead to 2015 16 and beyond.
future: fulfil successfully its core purpose of investment remains strong, with plans to invest providing the energy people need in a reliable around 5.5bn net in the four years to 2018.
There is no doubt that 2014 15 saw a remarkable and sustainable way: and deliver a financial confluence of events for SSE: confirmation that performance to support the continuing In summary, 2014 15 brought the challenges the Competition and Markets Authority CMA remuneration of shareholders investment expected at the start of the year: and more would investigate the supply and acquisition of through the payment of dividends.
challenges are on the horizon as SSE looks energy in Great Britain: the Scottish independence forward to the rest of 2015 16 and beyond.
referendum: Ofgems decision to approve SSEs SSEs approach to the CMA investigation and I have no doubt those challenges will be met.
largest ever capital project: the final stages of the political debate about energy has been The Companys business model is robust: the electricity distribution price control process: to demonstrate how the energy market in the management team is strong: and in its the first-ever auction for provision of electricity Great Britain is generally well-functioning employees SSE has a remarkable group generation capacity: and the intense debate and benefiting customers, while highlighting a of talented, committed and enthusiastic about the energy sector in the run-up to the number of areas where there may be potential people focused on doing the right thing UK general election.
for reforms that produce additional benefits by the customers on whom the Company for customers.
While the CMA process still has ultimately depends.
some way to go and the UK general election has only just taken place, SSE believes that there is It has been my privilege to be SSEs Chairman for now an opportunity to achieve a stable policy 10 years.
In my first Annual Report as Chairman, and regulatory framework that gives customers I wrote that SSE had experienced much change confidence, allows regulators to regulate and over the previous two years.
Change has certainly encourages investors to invest in the Great been the hallmark of the 10 years since then and Britain energy market.
will no doubt continue to be so.
The Company is in a good shape to be successful during the next SSEs business is focused on the provision of phase of change, and I am delighted that Richard energy and related services to customers in Gillingwater has agreed to lead the Board as homes, offices and businesses across the UK Chairman.
He has a long-standing association and Ireland.
Encouraging progress was made with and interest in the energy sector, as well in 2014 15, with the successful launch of the as a breadth of experience in other sectors new Enterprise division to bring together SSEs and organisations, from which the Board services in competitive markets for industrial and SSE will benefit greatly.
and commercial customers: achieving periods of best-ever performance in minimising the There is no doubt that the next few years will number and duration of power cuts experienced bring many challenges for Richard, the Board, by Networks customers: and extending to at least the management team and employees, but SSEs July 2016 the freeze on household energy prices clear purpose, simply-stated strategy and core in Great Britain so that there wont have been values will stand it in very good stead for the long an increase for more than two and a half years.
term, as will its commitment to giving customers service it is proud of and to remunerating SSEs commitment to the dividend is clear: the shareholders for their investment through financial objective of the Companys strategy the dividend.
is to increase annually the dividend payable to shareholders by at least RPI inflation.
This is because shareholders have either invested Lord Smith of Kelvin directly in SSE or, as owners of the Company, Chairman have enabled it to borrow money from debt investors to finance investment in the assets that will help meet the energy needs of customers 02 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
Deputy Chairman, Richard Gillingwater CBE Richard Gillingwater will become Chairman of SSE plc on completion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in July, subject to being re-elected to the Board at the meeting.
Here he answers some questions about how he sees the role of Chairman and some of the future issues facing SSE.
Your appointment as Chairman was In what ways would you like to What do you think is the biggest issue announced last November.
How see the Board of SSE develop in facing SSE as a UK-listed company?
useful has the transition period been?
In common with most large organisations, In a long-term industry like energy, effective Im a strong advocate of the benefits that there is a clear need for SSE to do more to transition is very important.
Robert and effective corporate governance gives to restore customers trust in it as a provider I have always worked well together as companies and I hope to lead a Board that of essential services.
Part of the issue is that part of an effective Board in which strong is open-minded and progressive with regard SSE itself has made mistakes in the past: and constructive relationships already exist.
to future developments in this area.
I want but there is also the wider trust question Since November, I have met shareholders, to ensure that SSE maintains a Board that affecting businesses in almost any sector.
regulators, politicians, customer has a good range of skills complementary As Chairman, Ill aim to do everything I can representatives and employees, which to SSEs activities and needs.
I am a strong to understand the concerns of SSEs key has given me a really good set of insights.
believer in the importance of diversity of stakeholders and ensure that their concerns Im fully up to speed on the key issues that thinking and background, including gender, and priorities are reflected in decisions that the Board will have to consider in the rest round the boardroom table.
I regard are taken around the Board table.
Restoring of this financial year and beyond.
Ive also succession planning and encouraging good trust will be no easy task, but I think SSE has taken the opportunity to scale back some talent management as very important a strong set of values and has made a lot of other commitments so I can give the aspects of the Boards role.
Finally, I want to progress in the last few years, and I want to necessary focus to SSE.
In summary, make sure that the Board supports effective play my part in helping to build on that.
I think the transition is going very well.
decision-making in SSE so that the Company does the right thing by shareholders and In addition to governance and values, What do you think you will bring customers alike.
the Board is responsible for the overall to the role of Chairman?
strategic direction of the company, I obviously bring a degree of continuity in Could the CMA market investigation so do you foresee any changes while the leadership of the Board and accumulated and the UK general election lead to you are Chairman?
knowledge and understanding of the business big changes for SSE?
SSEs strategy has been fundamentally and the issues it faces.
At the same time, The answer to that is obviously yes: but the same since it was formed in 1998: the I have been involved with a wide range of regulation and politics are facts of life in Company is an energy provider that likes to organisations in areas as varied as investment energy and I am optimistic that the next year be involved in a variety of businesses in that management, retailing, manufacturing and provides a good opportunity for regulators sector in identified markets.
I hope, therefore, that I will and politicians to agree a lasting settlement any of that to change.
Within that broad be able to combine depth of understanding for the energy sector that will be good for framework, the Company has had different with diversity of experience and outlook customers and good for investors as well.
In priorities at different times: for a period, it and that this, in turn, will ensure that the any event, SSE is always open and constructive was investment in renewable energy: this is management team gets the right blend when it comes to politics and regulation, now surpassed by investment in electricity of support and challenge.
Regulation and and will, rightly, remain so.
It would be irresponsible Government Policy are important to SSE and Government and following the outcome of of the Board not to keep strategy under I hope my experience of both will be useful.
the CMA investigation, the Board will have the review: at the same time, it would be equally first opportunity for a while to stand back and irresponsible to jettison the key features look at the breadth of SSEs operations in the of a strategy that has stood SSE in such light of a more settled outlook for the industry.
good stead for so many years.
