STRATEGIC REPORT Executive Chairmans statement Building on success GARRY WATTS EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN In a year when issues surrounding the In June, we welcomed Mediclinic In our first full year as a listed provision of healthcare in the UK seemed International to our share register when company we continued to to be in the news every day, I am pleased they took a 29.9% strategic stake in Spire to report that our highly skilled staff were Healthcare.
Mediclinic International is build on eight years of success.
able to deliver outstanding treatment and an international private healthcare group We added capacity across our care to more patients than ever before operating in South Africa, Switzerland and to the highest standards of safety and and the Middle East.
Danie Meintjes, national network, and we clinical outcomes.
their chief executive officer, joined our broke ground on two newBoard and we are already benefiting from Our financial performance in 2015 was his knowledge and international experience build hospitals, due to open good.
In what was, at times, a challenging as we explore new ways in which we can year, we achieved our eighth successive in 2017. develop our business.
Total revenue increased 3.4% to 884.8 million: the result was a In March 2016, we announced that Rob Above all, we provided pro-forma profit after tax of 73.0 million Roger would be leaving the Company on treatment of the highest 2014: 71.6 million.
30 June 2016 to take up a new CEO role at Vero Group, a large privately financed quality to over 760,000 We continue to invest significantly in property business.
our people, services, treatments, hospitals patients, whilst improving and equipment.
In the year, we invested Rob has been with Spire for over nine or maintaining our already 109.5 million across the business, further years.
As chief financial officer he played reinforcing our position as the pre-eminent an integral part in the formation of Spire excellent staff, consultant and provider of private healthcare in the UK.
Healthcare in 2007, before becoming Chief patient satisfaction scores.
He has overseen DIVIDEND the significant growth of the Group, both Subject to shareholder approval, the organically and through acquisition, and Company will pay a final dividend in respect led the Company through its successful of the 2015 year of 2.4 pence per ordinary stock market debut in 2014.
Together with the interim dividend worked together for over five years and of 1.3 pence this amounts to a total annual I will be sorry to see him depart.
On behalf dividend of 3.7 pence per ordinary share.
of us all at Spire, I wish him well in his This is in line with our stated dividend policy new role.
which aims to pay out around 20% of profit I have resumed the role of Executive after taxation each year.
Chairman, and Andrew White, Chief Operating Officer, will join me and Simon BOARD CHANGES Gordon on the Board as an Executive During the year, we saw the exit of Cinven, Director with effect from 1 July 2016. our long-standing private equity investor, Andrew joined Spire Healthcare in November and the resignation from the Board of its 2015, and brings significant professional representative, Dr Supraj Rajagopalan.
Further We wish Cinven and Supraj well in their announcements regarding the Chief future ventures.
Executive Officer role will be made We were delighted that Simon Rowlands as appropriate.
Pro-forma profit is calculated as earnings after tax adjusted consented to remain on the Board, given for exceptional items.
For 2014, pro-forma profit is his experience both with the Company GOVERNANCE calculated as earnings after tax adjusted for the capital since 2007 and in the healthcare sector restructuring, exceptional items, to conform the property Your Board and its committees have rental base, PLC operating costs and the net profit arising on more widely.
developed strongly during the year, with the sale of property and other assets detailed on page 32.
6 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the Directors learning from each other and working together effectively.
We conducted 2015 highlights an internal evaluation of the Board and individual Directors, and will complete a further evaluation in 2016.
SPECIALIST CARE CENTRE, BADDOW The highest levels of clinical governance and performance are central to our business a review of our performance Our second, purpose-built Specialist in this area is always the first substantive Care Centre, which opened in November, item on Board agendas.
houses two linear accelerators, a 6D robotic couch, a wide-bore CT scanner The Boards Clinical Governance and Safety equipped with 4D imaging capabilities Committee is independently chaired by and a chemotherapy suite, and offers the Professor Dame Janet Husband.
Her report very best in cancer treatment and care.
on this committees activities can be found The centre will treat a broad range of on pages 72 and 73. cancers including breast, gynaecological, In 2015, we welcomed the Care Quality prostate, head, neck, skin and lung Commission CQC to seven of our hospitals cancers, from diagnosis to treatment, as it started to implement its new inspection using state-of-the-art treatment and regime.
Details of the CQC inspections can verification techniques.
We are fully supportive of strong regulation and will Read more on page 41 continue to work with the CQC, sharing best practice and developing our culture of continuous improvement.
SPIRE ELLAND HOSPITAL OPENS A THIRD OPERATING THEATRE The Board is united in its aim that all our hospitals should be CQC rated as Good or Outstanding.
Opened in June, the hospitals third theatre will benefit more than 2,000 OUR GREATEST ASSET self-paying, medically insured and NHS We have all read of the challenges the UK patients from the local area in its first faces in recruiting, training, developing 12 months.
This increased operating and retaining skilled nurses and doctors.
capacity means patients will be treated Delivering outstanding healthcare to sooner and with more flexibility than thousands of patients every day of the ever before.
year is an intensely personal business.
The 2.7 million laminar flow theatre Our committed nurses, allied healthcare will be complemented by the hospitals professionals, doctors and everyone else nationally accredited sterile services unit, in our hospitals are our greatest asset and which places Spire Elland Hospital as I cannot overstate the gratitude of the the only hospital in the local area where Board, our shareholders, and above all, the staff are able to sterilise operating our patients, for their unstinting efforts instruments on-site.
You can read more about the emphasis Read more about developments on we place on the recruitment, training, pages 18 and 19 development and management of the skilled individuals who make Spire Healthcare such a special organisation PRIVATE HOSPITAL PROVIDER OF THE YEAR WIN FOR SECOND YEAR RUNNING in Our people, on pages 42 to 45.
LOOKING AHEAD Spire Healthcare was named Private The strong underlying growth drivers hospital group of the year for the present in the UK healthcare market are second year running at the HealthInvestor incontrovertible.
They present a range of Awards in June.
The 2015 competition outstanding opportunities for healthcare was fierce with award submissions providers of the highest quality such as up by 20% on 2014, but despite this, Spire Healthcare.
I believe that we have Spire Healthcare still pipped six other the management team, staff, culture organisations to the top spot.
and resources in place to become the UKs leading private healthcare provider and a key presence in the wider UK healthcare economy.
Garry Watts Executive Chairman 16 March 2016 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 7
