St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 4 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement This exceptional set of results is testament to our expertise across the many facets of regeneration.
BILL SHANNON Chairman Looking back over the last 12 months alone, there are many examples that illustrate these values in action.
We think long-term continually restocking the development pipeline with new opportunities: Our successful business model is based on a long-term approach to regeneration and development.
Be it a new acquisition offering excellent potential for development and income, entering a new marketplace that offers a recurring revenue stream or building speculatively in an area with good prospects for economic growth, this long-term approach ensures we are continually adding value to our existing 6,000 acre land bank aswell as creating new opportunities for its growth.
TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR p 5.75 4.60 In this way, we have maintained an active commercial 4.00 25% 3.63 development pipeline this year, which now stands at 1.6msqft.
3.30 As wecomplete our developments, we seek to restock thepipeline with new opportunities.
For example, Longbridge has been transformed from a disused car factory to a living, breathing new community and a key business destination 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 for Birmingham.
At its heart is a new Town Centre for which the second phase completed in November 2015 marked by opening of the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer and other As we approach our anniversary marking 30 years as a listed national retailers.
company, I am extremely pleased to report on a record set of th results for the year ended 30 November 2015.
The business In the coming year, new opportunities include a variety of has achieved a 27% increase in shareholders' equity NAV per schemes throughout the UK, such as a 214,000 sq ft design share to 413.5p 2014: 325.1p and profit before all tax of and build project for Travis Perkins in Whitley, Coventry and 258.4m 2014: 135.4m.
148,000 sq ft of speculative development in Avonmouth, Bristol of which over 50% is now let and sold.
This exceptional set of results is testament to our expertise across the many facets of regeneration, ranging We are innovative creating new revenue streams: from remediation and planning skills, to construction We have the confidence in our own abilities and development, through to project delivery and to tackle complex schemes and we embrace asset management.
challenges, always adopting a pragmatic approach which enables us to manage risk and make These skills and expertise are driven by our set of core values the right decisions for business growth whilst delivering that define both the business and the approach we adopt to shareholder value.
manage, develop and extract maximum value from our land bank.
At every point of the development lifecycle we think This year is no exception as we completed a major milestone long-term, we are innovative and we do what we say.
for the New Covent Garden Market site which achieved unconditional status in April.
This is a particularly complex th Our 30 anniversary in 2016 will provide an excellent and innovative development in terms of planning, design opportunity to reflect on how the business has grown with and engineering.
these values at its core, whilst also looking forward to the next30 years of progress.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 5 245 4699 100164 165176 We also demonstrated innovation through the introduction of Dividend Income Producing Residential to our portfolio.
This comprises Our policy is to increase our dividends in line with the growth two new revenue streams for the business that highlight our in net asset value and to reflect the Companys results.
For the th ability to increase the flow of development profits and create year ended 30 November 2015, the Board is recommending further sources of income: a 25% increase in the total dividend for the year to 5.75p per share 2014: 4.6p per share, giving a final dividend for the year St. Modwen Student Living, Bay Campus to coincide with of 3.85p per share 2014: 3.137p per share.
The final dividend the opening of the Bay Campus for Swansea University, we st will be paid on 1 April 2016 to shareholders on the register at established a team of facilities management professionals to th 4 March 2016. manage the retained student accommodation and associated facilities for this major new asset in South Wales.
People These record results would not have been possible without the Private Rented Sector PRS having monitored this passion of our talented team of dedicated staff.
Embodying our growing marketplace over the last couple of years, in 2015 we values of innovation, commitment and long-term thinking, completed two initial PRS schemes in Wembley and Rugby.
they are critical to the success of the business and I would We expect to grow in this market in 2016 17. like to express my thanks to everyone at St. Modwen for their Finally, the growth of St. Modwen Homes shows how we continuing valuable contribution.
canassess our existing land bank carefully and bring new, Board changes value-adding opportunities to life.
In March 2015 John Salmon retired from the Board after more We do what we say delivering for all our stakeholders: than nine years service.
His position as Audit Committee As a trusted developer, we can be relied upon to Chairman has been assumed by Ian Bull, who joined the Board speak plainly and knowledgeably to our current and in September 2014.
Ian is currently Chief Financial Officer and prospective partners.
In addition, when we know main board director at Ladbrokes plc.
a decision is the right one, having undertaken the We welcomed Rob Hudson to the Board in September 2015 appropriate analysis, we will always follow through.
on his appointment as Group Finance Director.
Rob, previously During 2015 we have taken advantage of strong investor Group Financial Controller at British Land Company plc, has interest by disposing of a number of mature assets to which wide-ranging financial skills and experience together with we could no longer add material value.
At the same time property sector knowledge which makes him an excellent we acquired new assets from which we can extract good addition to the Board.
Prospects The acquisition of Kirkby Town Centre is a good example We have a long track record of unrivalled regeneration of our commitment to acquire valuable new property.
In a expertise, robust asset management skills and a proven ability 35.8m transaction, we added this Town Centre scheme, to realise value from our extensive land bank.
2016 marks whichcombines development and income producing potential, 30years of such success and we see continued progress in to thecarrying amount of our 1.7bn portfolio.
each of these areas of the business in the year ahead.
We also deliver on our promises in terms of the development Whilst we are currently experiencing macro-economic of design and build projects for major UK occupiers.
uncertainty, we anticipate a continued, if slow, overall This includes Screwfix, which in 2015 extended its existing improvement in the UK economy with sustained growth in distribution hub in Stoke-on-Trent by 310,000 sq ft to the regions.
Ourextensive regional portfolio provides us with 630,000sq ft.
Following the completion of this project, we a good base from which we will continue to realise residential converted it into an opportunity to deliver further value for and commercial development opportunities, either from our shareholders by disposing of the asset for 18.1m to the existing land bank or through new acquisitions.
In addition, our Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd. retained portfolio of assets and new ventures, including income producing residential, should ensure a continued stream of From a major project perspective, in 2013 we made a recurring income that continues to underpin the business commitment to Swansea University that we would complete running costs.
the new Bay Campus by September 2015.
This year we achieved exactly this, opening the first phase, comprising We therefore look towards 2016 with a sense of optimism and 775,000 sq ft, to 917 new students on time and within budget.
look forward to growing the business further and enhancing shareholder value.
Bill Shannon Chairman st 1 February 2016 On a proportionally consolidated basis including share of joint ventures.
Please see note 2c to the Group Financial Statements.
