SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Chairmans Welcome.
The Boards confidence in the underlying strengths of the business and its potential for the future is indicated by the decision to announce a maiden dividend for 2016 and a progressive dividend policy.
We believe that the commercial model of the business allows us both to invest in new growth opportunities and return cash to shareholders.
Peter Bamford Chairman 8 July 2015 www.
co. uk 02 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The Board and management team have been strengthened On the international front we opened 40,000 square feet of Whilst our financial results fell Strategic significantly through a series of changes.
Julian Dunkertons retail space in Germany, while the buy-out of our US licence Report.
short of the expectations that the decision to step aside from the role of Chief Executive Officer has partner in March and the announcement in July of the joint allowed him, with James Holder, to focus fully on the continued venture with Trendy International Group in China also provide Board and our shareholders had at development of the Superdry brand and the evolution of our platforms for significant long-term growth in these three large Our Our the start of the year, I am confident Gover Governance.
This, together with the appointment of Euan Sutherland and important markets.
to that position last October, has brought a new dimension to that SuperGroup has finished the The Boards confidence in the underlying strengths of the the leadership of the business.
The three are working extremely business and its potential for the future is indicated by the Financial Financial year in a much stronger position.
well together and the Board is delighted with the progress being Statements.
decision to announce a maiden dividend for 2016 and a made.
Euans move from his non-executive role provided the progressive dividend policy.
We believe that the commercial opportunity to appoint Penny Hughes to the Board in April this model of the business allows us both to invest in new growth year.
Penny brings a huge breadth of experience from a wide opportunities and return cash to shareholders.
range of different businesses and boards.
Since the year end we have confirmed Nick Wharton in the role of Chief Financial Officer.
Good governance is essential in enabling us to realise our Nick, who had been covering the role on an interim basis since full potential and supports successful execution.
We have February, brings deep financial management skills as well as thoroughly reviewed many aspects of the way that the Board, broad retail and business experience.
Board Committees, and the Executive Committee operate.
A number of refinements and improvements have been made to Susanne Given, Hans Schmitt, and Shaun Wills all left the ensure that management has clear authority to operate within Company during the year and I would like to thank them for the the established creative and entrepreneurial culture, while being contributions they made to the development of SuperGroup.
balanced by appropriate challenges, controls and rigorous Since becoming Chief Executive Officer, Euan has worked decision-making processes.
The Board evaluation confirmed closely with Julian, James and the rest of the management team that the Board is generally working well but noted that some to develop a new strategic framework which was presented to improvements can be made.
analysts and investors in March.
This has given a sharp focus SuperGroup has an ambitious and demanding strategy on the strengths of the brand, the areas requiring improvement, for growth and operational improvement.
One of the most and the most important growth opportunities.
Central to this important priorities for us is to ensure that we have the people process was gaining a clearer understanding of the Superdry and organisation necessary to lead and manage the execution customer base, how it has evolved over time, and the actions of our strategy.
Whilst the last year has seen a number of required to embed the core brand values in the business and changes to Board composition we will continue to review the enhance and extend our ranges.
This will enable us to meet skills, experience and diversity required to ensure the long-term one of our key strategic challenges of remaining relevant to our success of our Company.
Euan is continuing to build core customers.
and develop the executive team and intends to put greater We now have systems which are much more robust and fit focus on talent management and succession planning for purpose.
New merchandise management, point of sale, throughout SuperGroup.
HR and finance systems were installed and bedded-in during I would like to thank everyone who has worked so hard in the year providing platforms which will enable future growth the continued development of SuperGroup and all of our and efficiencies.
shareholders for your investment and support.
