Chairmans statement costs were 75.50p 2014: 70.59p, an Dear Shareholder, increase of 7.0%.
After taking account The past twelve months have seen ofamortisation, non-recurring items and continuedsuccess in implementing our acquisition-related costs, basic earnings strategy, with good underlying revenue and pershare were 56.90p 2014: 57.81p, trading profit growth despite adverse currency adecrease of 1.6%.
Whilst there has been some distraction as a result of the proposed As a result of the proposed combination combination with Steris, we have continued withSTERIS, the Board chose not to pay toexpand our services to new and existing aninterim dividend to shareholders 2014: customers across our markets maintaining our 8.57p, and is not proposing to pay a final operational excellence, and forging ahead with dividend to shareholders 2014 total dividend: our long-term investment opportunities.
The Board will continue to keep its have seen particularly strong growth from our dividend policy under review.
Synergy and global Applied Sterilisation Technology & STERIS have agreed that Synergy would Laboratory Services AST business and we beallowed to declare a special dividend have laid the groundwork for similar growth of15.80pence per share.
The timing of Sir Duncan Nichol from our Healthcare Services HS business.
payment of such a dividend would be Chairman determined by the Board at a future date.
Financial Results 2 June 2015 Synergy has delivered solid full year Business development growthin2015, with reported revenue During the year we worked to mobilise the of408.8million 2014: 380.5 million, twolargest contracts Synergy has ever won.
Underlying On 27 July 2014 we successfully began a revenue growth, after removing the impact of multi-year contract with Sterilmed part of currency movements, was 10.8%.
Adjusted Johnson & Johnson, reprocessing single operating profit was 64.6 million 2014: usemedical devices, and I am pleased to 61.3million, representing an increase of saythat we have exceeded the customers 5.3%.
Underlying operating profit growth expectations.
Throughout the year we also was9.4%.
Adjusted operating margin worked on the North Shore HS project, but decreased to 15.8% 2014:16.1%.
asa result of property-related planning delays, full service commencement has been delayed Recommended combination with to the first quarter of 2016.
Our work with Our core values of STERIS major partners, such as Sterilmed and North On 13 October 2014 STERIS Corporation achievement, integrity, Shore, is resonating with key decision makers STERIS announced a recommended in large health organisations in the US and combination of Synergy and STERIS.
accountability and worldwide, and I am pleased to report that Thecombination of Synergy with STERIS innovation, are central to wehave recently won two further large US hasconsiderable strategic merit for both HScontracts worth 17 million.
organisations, creating a leading outsourced therelationships we have sterilisation network to further improve the with all our stakeholders As a result of the negotiations with STERIS, service we provide to our customers.
This the Group has had to redirect internal could potentially accelerate the growth of both resources away from other acquisition activity companies, leveraging STERISs capabilities and some potential transactions have been and infrastructure to make Synergys products delayed or postponed.
However, organic and services more successful, and Synergys growth has been improving, supported by customer base and markets to cross-sell ournew gamma facility in Marcoule, France, existing and new STERIS products.
doubling capacity in Saxonburg, US, adding As announced on the 29 May 2015, Synergy anew facility in San Francisco and investing and STERIS intend to contest the US Federal in plant and process improvements Trade Commissions decision to block the throughout our global network.
Both companies believe that the combination is procompetitive and in Further details of these investments are the best interest of all constituents of the two disclosed in the Operating Review, and companies, including customers.
Acquisitions remain a key part of our strategy, and with Shareholder return our strong financial position we will continue Driven by the growth in revenue and operating toconsider targeted bolt-on acquisitions and profit, adjusted basic earnings per share to evaluate strategic acquisitions to increase EPS before intangibles, amortisation, shareholder value.
non-recurring items and acquisition-related 4 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Since the initial listing of Synergy in the The Board summer of 2001 the business has produced In September 2014 the Board was further compound revenue growth in excess of 20% strengthened with the appointment of Bruce per annum and adjusted EPS growth of 15% Edwards.
Bruce was formerly the global per annum.
The strategies that we have set ChiefExecutive Officer for DHLs Supply out for the continued development of our AST Chaindivision, and a member of the Board and HS businesses in a global market create ofManagement.
Bruce is a non-executive the opportunity for Synergy to grow further director of Ashtead plc and Greif Inc. a NYSEand to extend a track record of which we listed packaging and container manufacturer.
Bruce has joined the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The proposed combination with STERIS would create an even stronger combined The Board places great emphasis on group that would help to support the governance and is mindful of its responsibility implementation of our strategy as well to promote the long-term interests of the ascreate new opportunities.
We enter company for all our stakeholders.
This anewchapter in Synergys evolution, isdescribed in detail in the corporate whereour access to the US sales teams Governance section of our Annual Report.
andinfrastructure of STERIS would help to accelerate the HS outsourcing market, and Corporate responsibility the combined comprehensive, global AST We give high priority to compliance and network would be of significant value to ethics, as well as health, safety and the ourshared customer base.
Our core values of achievement, integrity, accountability and innovation are The new financial year has started well.
central to the relationships we have with all Looking further out the Board is confident our stakeholders, and underpin how we treat thatour expertise, our investments in new our customers, our suppliers, our staff and capacity, and our close collaboration with the wider communities in which we operate.
ourcustomers will all deliver sustained growthover the medium and long term.
Details of the Groups approach to corporate and social responsibility are disclosed in the Strategic review.
Our people Synergys well-earned reputation Investing in the skills and engagement of all our employees is a critical part of sustaining the long-term vitality of the Group.
for operational excellence, The Board continues to be delighted with theefforts and commitment of staff across anditsability to deliver on its the Group.
I would once again like to thank allour staff for their dedication.
Synergys commitments to customers, is well-earned reputation for operational excellence, and its ability to deliver on its testament to the effectiveness commitments to customers, is testament tothe effectiveness of those efforts and the shared values to which we all subscribe.
ofour staff and the shared values Outlook Synergy remains well placed to maximise to which we all subscribe.
itscorecompetitive strengths, strong operational capabilities and internationally respected brand.
The business has a number of opportunities for earnings-enhancing investment, and the Board is confident that these will deliver strong growth in shareholder value over the coming years.
5 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
