STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT How would you sumup the year?
Summary This has been a very challenging year for the Group as we have experienced a number of challenges which have had a significant impact on our financial and It has been a very challenging operating performance.
In the face of these challenges, Javed and his team are taking the necessary actions to identify and year for the Group but the address the root causes, and minimise our exposure in the future.
determination of our employees Notwithstanding this, I am pleased the Group continues to make progress against across the business to our strategic objective set out in 2010 of building a foundation on which to deliver steady, sustainable growth in Speciality improve our performance Food Ingredients.
Once again, I am greatly saddened to have to report a fatality at one of our facilities.
In June, one of our employees died in a tractor accident at one of our grain storage facilities in the US.
This was in addition to two fatalities, as a result of the accident that I reported last year that occurred in Singapore in April 2014.
The tragic loss of these lives reminds us yet again why safety is, and must always be, our first priority.
While extensive analysis of the five fatalities which have occurred over the last two years has not revealed any common cause, during the year we undertook a thorough review across the Group of our safety management programme and accident prevention initiatives.
This included the use of external safety auditors to review safety management and controls at our major manufacturing sites.
Based on the findings of the review, a number of actions have been taken to further strengthen our safety processes, details of which are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 39. Dividend The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders and remains committed to the dividend policy it implemented in 2009.
Underpinned by the confidence it has in the strategy of the business, the Board intends to recommend an unchanged final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2015 of 19.8p to make a total for the year of 28.0p, an increase of 1.4%.
Further, the Board intends to maintain the total dividend payment at 28.0p for the year ending 31 March 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval, the proposed final dividend will be due and payable on 31 July 2015 to all shareholders on the Register of Members at 3 July 2015.
06 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Strategic progress Operational performance Capital allocation policy During the year, we further strengthened our The particularly prolonged and severe The effective use of capital on behalf of Speciality Food Ingredients business with the 2013 14 winter in the US meant that we shareholders is our primary objective.
To launch of two major new products and by entered the year with significantly reduced support our growth strategy we believe in the completion of two bolt-on acquisitions.
inventory levels which impacted our ability maintaining an efficient, but prudent, capital to fulfil customer orders.
Our ability to meet structure, while retaining the flexibility to On 21 April 2015, just after the year end, orders for SPLENDA Sucralose was also invest in growing the business.
As such, our we announced two major actions to re-align impacted by the extended shutdown of the balance sheet will continue to be managed our business to further strengthen and focus Singapore plant following the accident in to maintain debt ratios within an investment on Speciality Food Ingredients.
These factors, together with grade credit rating.
Our priorities for the unexpectedly strong demand in emerging allocation of capital are as follows: The first is reaching an agreement to re-align markets, placed significant pressure on our First of all we want to ensure that we our European Eaststarch joint venture with global supply chain, leading to additional have sufficient resources to invest in the Archer Daniels Midland Company.
Through costs of fulfilment and some missed sales business to fund working capital and this re-alignment, which is subject to opportunities.
growth in Speciality Food Ingredients regulatory clearances and is expected to Second, is our commitment to a close in the summer, we will exit the As a result of these issues, a detailed review progressive dividend policy, where we aim predominantly Bulk Ingredients plants in of our global planning and supply chain to grow the dividend over time taking into Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary and acquire processes was conducted.
We have also account the earnings prospects of the full ownership of the more speciality-focused confirmed that, although no material business plant in Slovakia.
incremental capital investment was required Third, we will look to maintain flexibility to to better manage customer needs beyond accelerate our strategy through selective The second is our decision to re-focus the programme of capital expenditure acquisitions.
and re-structure our SPLENDA Sucralose announced as part of our May 2014 full year business.
As a result of significantly changed results, improvements were needed in Conclusion industry economics, we decided to make our operating and supply chain planning It has been a very challenging year for the some fundamental changes to how we capabilities and to other internal planning Group but the determination of our approach the sucralose market and our processes.
A programme to implement employees across the business to improve manufacturing footprint.
More specifically, these improvements is underway.
our performance has been unwavering.
in addition to pursuing a rigorous valueI would like to acknowledge their hard work based approach to securing volume, Board composition and, on behalf of the Board, thank them for we will materially lower our cost base by On 1 September, Nick Hampton joined their outstanding commitment and support.
consolidating all SPLENDA Sucralose Tate & Lyle as Chief Financial Officer having production into our US facility, and by spent 20 years working at PepsiCo.
Nick Sir Peter Gershon closing our Singapore facility in spring 2016. brings extensive financial, commercial and Chairman These actions will position SPLENDA technical experience to Tate & Lyle and is 27 May 2015 Sucralose as a more focused, low-cost and a very welcome addition to our executive sustainable business.
The decision to close the Singapore facility, We are very grateful to Tim Lodge for his which has played an important role in important contribution in his six years as establishing the prominent position of Chief Financial Officer and throughout his SPLENDA Sucralose in the global high- 25-year career with Tate & Lyle.
We wish him intensity sweetener market, was not taken every success in the next stage of his career.
While this decision results in an impairment charge of At the end of December, Robert Walker 113million, even taking into account the stepped down from the Board following the anticipated closure costs, the facility has completion of his term of appointment and provided strong returns to investors over I would like to thank Robert for his its life-cycle which have been well in excess commitment and hard work during his of our cost of capital.
I would like to thank all our employees in In January, we welcomed Paul Forman to the Eaststarch joint venture and at our the Board as a non-executive director and Singapore facility who will be leaving the a member of the audit, remuneration and Group, for their support and commitment nominations committees.
Pauls wide over the years.
I wish them well for the future.
experience of managing international businesses, developing business-to-business customer and market-led strategies, and commercialising innovation pipelines will be of significant benefit to the Board.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 07
