10 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FRANK MEYSMAN CHAIRMAN A customer-centric, dynamic organisation will be the backbone ofour future success.
SHAREHOLDER VALUE Underlying EPS Profit after tax FY15 Profit after tax of 19 million, an increase of 134 million FY14: loss after tax 115 million 8.9p 19m THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 11 Dear Shareholder our own-brand hotels, supporting the improvement and further development of our differentiated hotel offering.
Good progress is The year behind us was one of real progress for Thomas Cook.
already being made on the establishment of the investment vehicle, Over the 12 months, we drove a number of very positive achievements recruitment of a fund management team and development of a solid in the execution of our strategy, including the successful transition pipeline of potential acquisition opportunities.
of leadership of the Group to Peter Fankhauser, the launch of our new operating model, and the strengthening of both our business These strategic achievements have made us more resilient as partnerships and our financial footing.
However, at the same time a company and more able to absorb the impact of unusual or the year was shaped by external events, which affected a number unexpected activity in the market.
The potential Grexit the of important destinations for holidaymakers and the European travel possible exit of Greece from the Eurozone is one example of such industry as a whole.
unusual activity, as endless political debates, together with currency fluctuations and a level of civil unrest, caused temporary uncertainty Taking into account these circumstances, I think it is fair to say that amongst many Continental European customers.
The unexpected the results we are presenting to you represent a positive step on scale of the refugee crisis has also required close consideration the transformation journey of our Company, but do not yet achieve and action.
The all-too-often tragic scenes broadcast worldwide of the standards we setfor ourselves or expect that we are capable families arriving on the beaches of some of the Greek islands and of delivering.
Turkey, and the sheer number of refugees entering Western European countries, have affected our customers choice of holiday destination As part of our plan to make our capital structure more efficient, we signed a new 800 million financing facility in May, which provided and impacted trading, particularly in Germany.
Though events such as these have a financial impact on the Company, we appreciate a revolving credit facility, and a bonding and guarantee facility, maturing in May 2019.
This replaced our 470 million facility, which that there will always be external factors that influence the market and, therefore, our business.
We are now in a position that we can would have expired in May 2017.
The success of the actions taken over the last three years has led to improved financial performance manage and work to mitigate the impact of such events: whilst doing so, we have also ensured that we continue to listen to our customers.
across the Group, which in turn has meant that the opportunities to improve Thomas Cooks liquidity and capital structure have increased.
To support our customers who are looking to contribute to the relief effort providing aid to the refugees, our Group Airlines enabled This was demonstrated by the strong support we received in January for a six-and-a-half-year, 400 million Eurobond to replace the customers travelling to some of the impacted destinations to carry anamount of additional luggage free of charge.
The shocking terrorist attack in Tunisia created a very different In March, we announced our partnership with the Chinese investment challenge for us and the industry as a whole.
I am extremely proud group Fosun and their acquisition of 4.8% of the Company through of the way we looked after our customers in the wake of this horrific a subscription to new equity.
We welcomed Fosun not only as event, demonstrating our core value of keeping our customers at our a new supportive shareholder, but more importantly as a key heart.
We were able to react to the situation very quickly and we business partner.
Since our announcement, we have established a successfully repatriated 15,000 of our customers from Tunisia to their joint venture in China to develop domestic, inbound and outbound home countries within a matter of days.
Our teams on the ground and tourism activities for the Chinese market under Thomas Cook brands.
across the airlines, together with those in our contact centres and The joint venture will be based in the China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade retail stores, worked tirelessly to ensure that we took care of those Zone.
We have also agreed with Fosun to establish a hotel investment of our customers who wanted to come home, and rebooked holidays vehicle to acquire hotel and resort properties in key destinations for for our customers who were still to travel.
This should enable us to better utilise FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW 12 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The hard work of our Group Airlines teams has been recognised We are currently across the industry and we are proud to have received five awards in the last year, including Most Popular Airline, awarded to Condor by the German Institute for Service and Quality resulting from a German undertaking a customer survey, and Europes Leading Charter Airline Winner 2015, awarded to our UK Airline by the World Travel Awards and voted for by programme of work UK charter airline customers.
I would like to thank Christoph Debus, our Chief Airlines and Hotels Officer, and his team for their significant toensure that our efforts and achievements this year.
We are currently undertaking a programme of work to ensure that entire organisation... our entire organisation, whether in a customer-facing role or one of our corporate offices, operates with a focus on our customer: our operates with a focus decision making at all levels will always take account of the customer perspective.
As part of this programme of work, we appointed former on our customer Sainsburys CEO Justin King to lead a review of all of our business practices relating to our customers.
His findings form part of our strategy to further transform Thomas Cook into a truly customerfocused and customer-centric business.
Furthermore, to demonstrate our ongoing commitment to the health, safety and welfare of our customers when travelling on holiday, we have established a charity promoting safer tourism, the Safer Tourism Foundation.
Our vision is to be the best-loved holiday company, delighting our customers, our people and our shareholders.
To achieve our vision we need each and every one of our people to perform their role to the best of their ability, putting our customers at the heart of everything they do.
We are realistic in our expectations that we cannot control external factors, and, given the number of customers who holiday with us every year, there will always be challenges to contend with.
However, by putting our customers at our heart, we are acknowledging the duty of care we owe to each customer who has chosen to travel on holiday with us, and we are demonstrating the amount we value the trust placed in us, to provide our customers with the best weeks of their year.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 13 One year ago I explained that with the appointment of Peter This year has shown that the Group is more resilient than ever Fankhauser as our new Group CEO we would be entering the next before and that we have a clear strategy for the future, which the phase of our transformation.
Under Peters strong leadership, our Management Team will continue to execute.
We are committed to focus is now to implement and execute our strategy for profitable delivering against our targets and to exceeding the expectations growth.
The Board members and I are extremely pleased with all that of stakeholders.
The implementation of our NUMO will allow us to Peter has achieved this year and we look forward to working with improve the experiences of our customers even further, with a him over the next year, as we continue on the transformation journey.
focus on the development of our own hotel and resorts product.
The introduction of our New Operating Model NUMO, together A customer-centric, dynamic organisation will be the backbone with a new three-year business plan, describe how we are going of ourfuture success and, as demonstrated by the results of our totransform Thomas Cook further, for the benefit of our customers, group-wide employee engagement survey Every Voice, will be our people and our Shareholders.
Peter has a highly experienced delivered by an engaged workforce, who are proud to be a part committed Management Team in place and is evolving horizontal oftheThomas Cook Group.
leadership structures to ensure that across the Group the business I am particularly pleased that external as well as internal appreciation delivers the same goals, tracking against the same KPIs.
I would of Thomas Cook has increased.
Indeed at the end of the fiscal year, an also like to thank Michael Healy and his team for their excellent increased percentage of our customers have told us that they would work and the critical role they have played in enabling this years recommend Thomas Cook as a holiday company to their family and achievements.
All of our people continue to work extremely hard and friends.
These internal and external views of our Company support demonstrate their commitment to our Company on a daily basis, even our positive progress.
The Board is confident that the Management when faced with setbacks and the frustration of our year-end results Team, under Peter Fankhausers leadership, will complete this critical not reflecting the extent of their work.
The Board members and I next stage of Thomas Cooks strategy successfully, and generate recognise this level of effort and we are extremely appreciative of it.
profitable growth together with an increased loyal customer base.
We have a strong and diverse Board in place with a good mixture We believe that customer focus and long-term profitability go of different high-profile personalities, with the right motivation, hand in hand and, in my fourth year as Chairman, I am extremely experience and skills.
Carl Symon stepped down at the end of this pleased that we are now entering our 175th year, and we do so year and we thank him for his service to the Company and the asaprofit-making company.
valuable contributions he made to the Board as Senior Independent Director.
We are in the process of recruiting a new Non-Executive FRANK MEYSMAN Director to add to our high-calibre team of Directors, as they support CHAIRMAN the Company on its transformation journey, and help to handle and overcome any future challenges.
More detail of the changes made to 24 November 2015 the Board over the last year are set out in my corporate governance statement on page 68.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 15 strategic report TRANSFORMING FOR GROWTH F FI INAN NANC CIAL IAL S STAT TATEM EME EN NT TS S GO GOVE VERNAN RNANCE CE STRATEGIC REPORT
