STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Fellow Shareholders, responsibility to our businesses as we grow whilst streamlining our central I am pleased to introduce the functions and ensuring disciplined Companys Annual Report for the year deployment of capital.
ended December 2015, a year of good Many of my progress on a number of fronts.
In launching our corporate plan, we also committed to keep the Groups colleagues have Group sales grew by 6.5% to just investors apprised of progress.
On a like-for-like dedicated much the year, we held two investor days to basis, sales grew 3.8%.
As a result, present our supply chain and property of their lives to our adjusted operating profit, excluding strategies in more detail.
We will property profits, increased by 8.7% continue to keep our investors informed, business and this to 389m and adjusted earnings per with further events planned for 2016. share increased by 4.3% to 124.1p.
year celebrated as Among the Groups various businesses, Of particular note was the rationalisation many as 30, 40 I would highlight particularly strong and re-segmentation of the branch performances from Wickes, Toolstation, networks of our City Plumbing and PTS and even 45 years Keyline, CCF and Benchmarx.
businesses: a complex transformation of both businesses, designed to better of service.
During Most of the Groups businesses serve the needs of their different 2015, the already continued to outperform their major customers.
With this transformation now competitors.
This continues the pattern substantially complete, our plumbing and successful team was of recent years and attests to the heating businesses are better positioned energy, commitment and hard work by to compete in what is a rapidly evolving, joined by a number colleagues throughout the Group.
of new colleagues 2015 was the second year of The Company continues to deploy bringing skills to implementing the Groups corporate plan capital expenditure in line with its that was announced in December 2013. clearly stated priorities and financial support the growth The plan focuses on innovating our return objectives.
No sensible corporate customer propositions, offering better and development of plan is carved in stone, and I am value, improved product ranges and pleased that management has been the business.
more convenience for our customers: flexible in executing the plan, taking expanding and optimising our branch advantage of opportunities as they networks: building scale advantage have arisen during the year.
Our across our supply chains, procurement commitment is to grow shareholder and technology: and finally, ensuring we value consistently and for the long manage our portfolio carefully.
Flexibility around execution is key increasingly devolving management to achieving this aim.
12 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Dividend Outlook The strong performance of the Group in 2015 combined The market in 2015, particularly in the second half of the with the Boards confidence that the Groups growth strategy year, was weaker than we expected, owing to a number and underlying market indicators will result in sustainable of short-term factors.
However, the core foundations and earnings growth, has enabled the Board to propose a 15.8% growth trajectory of the markets in which our businesses increase in the full year dividend.
Average annual demand for new homes remains strong at around 225,000 per annum, A final dividend of 29.25p, payable on 27 May 2016 to with current supply being just over 160,000 new homes shareholders on the register on 29 April 2016, will give a full per annum.
This shortage must be fulfilled by building new year dividend of 44p 2014: 38p.
This dividend is covered homes to add to the existing housing stock of 28 million 2.8 times by adjusted earnings per share, with dividend homes.
A large proportion of these homes are not in a cover comfortably inside the Boards target range satisfactory condition and require significant repair and of 2.5x to 3.25x.
maintenance as well as improvement works.
Interest rates and inflation remain low, real wage growth has improved Employees and the employment environment is largely positive resulting in consumer confidence at levels we have not As mentioned in my introduction above, the successful seen for over a decade.
implementation of the Groups strategy is wholly dependent upon the quality of the entire Travis Perkins team.
Many Given the investment our Group has been making I am of my colleagues have dedicated much of their lives to confident that we will continue to outperform the markets our business and this year celebrated as many as 30, 40 we compete in, continue to grow operating profits, improve and even 45 years of service.
During 2015, the already the return on capital employed in our businesses and successful team was joined by a number of new colleagues ultimately further grow the return to our shareholders.
bringing skills to support the growth and development of the business.
The Board would like to welcome all of those Robert Walker new colleagues to the Group and thank everyone who has Chairman contributed to what has been yet another successful year 18 March 2016 for the Group.
Board of Directors The Group now has a settled board of directors, following the executive changes in 2013 and the appointment of four new non-executive directors since 2013.
Coline McConville joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 February 2015, completing our line up for the near future.
Andrew Simon retired from the Board on 31 October 2015 following nine years of service with distinction.
Among his many contributions was his chairmanship of the Companys Stay Safe Committee, an initiative started by Andrew in 2007 and which he chaired until his retirement, overseeing significant improvements in the Groups health and safety awareness.
The Board would like to express its thanks to Andrew and wish him well for the future.
Andrews role as Senior Independent Director was assumed by Chris Rogers in November: Coline McConville succeeded Andrew as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Pete Redfern has taken over as Chairman of the Stay Safe Committee both in November.
Ruth Anderson continues to Chair our Audit Committee.
We are fortunate in having such a strong Board that balances current and previous executive experience with skills in retailing and merchanting, alongside marketing, manufacturing and construction industry knowledge.
