Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder 2015 has been a strategically significant year for UBM.
It culminated with the proposed disposal of PRN.
The focus on Events will make UBM the leading pure play B2B events organiser in the world We have continued to make good progress position, providing funds to allow us to pursue further value-accretive bolt-on with our Events First strategy, integrated acquisitions.
the sizeable Advanstar acquisition and, at the end of the year, announced the Board changes strategically important step to dispose of I would like to take this opportunity to PRN to create a focused Events business.
thank Robert Gray warmly for his significant contribution to UBM.
Since joining as Strategic progress CFO in 2009, Robert played a key role Events are a highly attractive, growing in helping to steer the Company through sector in which UBM already enjoys one its transformation into a focused events of the leading global positions.
He took on the role of Acting optimistic about the opportunity that our CEO for some weeks early in the year, and Events First strategy represents.
The Chief on 31 July 2015 stepped down from the Executives Statement on page 12 details Board to become CEO of PRN: he led the progress on the implementation of our Dame Helen Alexander business through the auction process to strategy and its impact on the business.
Chairman the successful disposal announcement.
We wish him well for the future.
In PR Newswire disposal September 2015, Marina Wyatt joined We have, over the years, received us as Chief Financial Officer and as an expressions of interest in PRN from various Executive Director.
With the Groups Events First strategy clearly articulated and a backdrop On 31 December 2015 Jonathan Newcomb of change and consolidation in PRNs stepped down from the Board, having sector, the Board felt it was the right time served as a Non-Executive Director since to explore alternatives for the business.
Jon made a significant A robust auction, executed after careful contribution to the UBM Board over his preparation, served to confirm that judgement.
14-year tenure, chairing the Audit Committee and providing wise counsel as The Board believes that the $841m sale Total fully diluted adjusted EPS the business has undergone significant price achieved represents an attractive transformation.
His judgement and warmth valuation for PRN and that the transaction will be missed by his colleagues on is in the best interests of shareholders.
6.0% The disposal accelerates the 2014: 38.2p Finally, on 18 February 2016, we implementation of our Events First announced the appointment of Trynka strategy by increasing the Companys Shineman, President of Vistaprint, as focus on the attractive B2B events industry.
On completion, which is dependant on competition clearance, and is expected Dividend per share Governance at the end of Q1 2016, approximately 82% I remain committed to ensuring that the of revenue and 92% of adjusted operating Board continues to work effectively and profit will be generated from events.
The serves stakeholders as well as it possibly 21.6p growth and operating margin profile of the can, across all areas of responsibility.
We expect to There is a summary on page 5 of some return 245m of proceeds to shareholders 2014: 21.3p of the highlights during 2015.
The remaining cash Audit carried out an evaluation of Board proceeds will strengthen UBMs capital effectiveness: their conclusion was that the Board is working well.
04 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements UBM performed well in 2015.
Total fully Sustainability The disposal diluted adjusted EPS was up 6.0% at 40.5p We are mindful of the sustainability of our 2014: 38.2p.
The Board feels this was business activities and on page 28 you can accelerates the a good performance and lays a strong read further about the progress made in foundation for 2016.
This confidence is our sustainability initiatives during the year.
implementation illustrated by the Board recommending I would like to highlight a couple of points.
a final dividend of 16.3p, bringing the total Following the recruitment of Marina and of our Events First dividend for the year to 21.6p.
Trynka to the Board we have exceeded our diversity aim and the proportion of female strategy by Looking forward membership on the Board is 40%.
From I look forward to seeing UBM, as an eventsan environmental perspective we have increasing the focused business, continue to implement exceeded our target of 10% emissions its Events First strategy to deliver growth, reduction a year earlier than planned Companys focus margin and the best platform in the industry.
and after five years of participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, this year on the attractive UBM was promoted to the CDPs Climate Disclosure Leadership Index the only events industry media company in the FTSE350 to achieve this.
2015 performance This time last year I was highlighting the sizeable acquisition of Advanstar and I am pleased to report that the business performed well during 2015, exceeding the acquisition business case.
The integration is on track and $6.1m of synergies have been delivered so far.
Governance highlights Board achievements during the year pg 52 Strategy Values and governance Two-day Board meeting focusing on the implementation plan for New risk policy developed and extensive review of risk Events First management processes Close monitoring of Advanstar integration programme Business conduct policies refreshed and relaunched Strategic review leading to disposal of PRN Health & safety framework launched New information security policy launched People Recruited and appointed new CFO Financial Recruited and appointed new independent Non-Executive Director Approved 2014 financial results and 2015 half year results Succession planning process review completed in light of Agreed to maintain our progressive dividend policy Events First Approved dividend payments for full year 2014 and half year 2015 Approved 2016 budget UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
