STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONFRONTING CHALLENGES AND ACHIEVING RESULTS Tullow has undertaken a major restructuring in 2015, which has been difficult for all involved.
I commend the loyalty and resilience of our staff during a very tough year.
Prioritising cost saving There has been a relentless focus on cost control during 2015.
Exploration expenditure was cut to $256 million $799 million in 2014, while capital expenditure was limited to key projects, such as TEN in Ghana, which will generate strong future cash flow, even at low oil prices.
Headcount has been reduced by nearly 40 per cent, and the entire business has been reorganised to become more streamlined, more efficient and more effective.
Gross G&A was reduced by $164 million in 2015 and Tullow is on track to deliver cash savings of around $500 million over the planned three-year period from mid-2015.
The restructuring of the business has not been achieved without sacrifice.
Shareholders have seen their dividend suspended and many respected and valued members of staff have been made redundant, while many of those who remain have seen their responsibilities and workload increase.
On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank all of our staff for their loyalty, resourcefulness and resilience during a very tough year for Tullow.
Focus on delivery The changes we have made, while painful, were absolutely DEAR SHAREHOLDER necessary in this environment.
We have laid strong foundations Last year I reported on the underlying causes of the sharp for Tullow to benefit from the recovery, whenever it occurs.
We reduction in oil prices that started in mid-2014 and has have protected the core skills and competencies necessary for continued ever since.
I also reported on the steps taken our future success and built an organisation that is simpler and by your Company to address the new market reality.
By more cost-conscious, with clearly defined lines of authority, acting quickly and decisively, we have successfully reset responsibility and accountability for the delivery of our strategy.
the business to cope with lower oil prices.
Despite significant internal and external distractions, the focus on delivery is exemplified by the TEN Project in Ghana a During 2015, Tullows production remained broadly flat highly complex, multinational, $5 billion project, which is at 73,400 boepd.
In mid-2014, the oil price peaked at $115 bbl.
currently over 85 per cent complete and remains on time During 2015, it averaged $52 bbl and at year end stood at and on budget to produce first oil in July-August 2016.
$37 bbl, but the impact of lower prices was significantly mitigated by our prudent hedging strategy, which helped to Maintaining liquidity underpin revenues of $1,607 million 2014: $2,213 million.
The sharp reduction in the oil price in mid-2014 caught Tullow Cash flow also remained relatively strong at $967 million, at a particularly unfortunate time, when we were midway but we suffered another significant net loss after tax of through a heavy capital expenditure programme for the TEN $1,037 million, largely as a result of further write-offs and Project.
In response, we amended the covenants in our debt impairments.
However, during one of the most difficult periods agreements and strengthened liquidity by increasing the ever for the global oil and gas industry, these financial numbers available debt capacity on our RBL and corporate facility.
do not do justice to a year of hard work and solid achievement At the end of 2015, net debt stood at $4.0 billion with by your Company.
undrawn but available credit lines and free cash amounting to $1.9 billion.
Subject to the future development of the oil price, 6 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 1 debt should peak around mid-2016 as the TEN Project comes Upholding our responsibilities on stream.
It was never our intention to allow our leverage The UN climate change conference in Paris at the end of to reach these levels, and it remains our objective to reduce 2015 drew attention to the urgent need for the world to reduce gearing back towards our target level of two times net debt greenhouse gas GHG emissions and Tullow fully recognises to EBITDAX.
However, we firmly believe that it is in the interest its responsibility to play a constructive role in meeting the of our shareholders to run with a higher than desirable level target to limit global warning to two degrees celsius.
We have of debt until such time as we are able to deleverage our already taken steps to reduce GHG emissions from our own balance sheet through internal cash generation or portfolio operations and we now apply notional carbon pricing to test management activity that enhances the long-term value of the viability of major capital projects for Full Field Development the Company.
As an African-focused oil company, we are also conscious of our responsibility to meet the Managing our performance expectations of our host governments, which regard resourceAs part of the Major Simplification Project, the Board has led growth as a critical driver of economic development and overseen a significant improvement in our performance poverty alleviation.
We will continue to play our part in trying management process, aimed at re-invigorating teams to be to ensure that the resource revenues that we help to create highly engaged, motivated and results-orientated.
The Group contribute positively to economic diversification and scorecard, which tracks key metrics and a set of shorter-term sustainable, inclusive development in Africa.
objectives, is used to award Executive Directors performancerelated pay and a proportion of all staff bonuses.
It is tracked Board activity and changes on a monthly basis by the Board and Senior Leaders and In October, the Board visited Ghana, where we met senior progress has been proactively communicated to managers politicians, officials from our partners and regulators, and and teams across the Group at various times throughout the other business leaders and stakeholders.
A score of 37.7 per cent has been achieved in 2015, FPSO Kwame Nkrumah and Sekondi-Takoradi, where which reflects the challenging year the Group has faced, components for the TEN Project development have been but also the successful delivery of a number of objectives fabricated.
It was a pleasure to meet so many talented that were critical in these very tough market conditions.
members of the Tullow Ghana team during our visit and Full details of our performance are set out on pages 17 to 21. to see the high standard of work.
Prudent planning and risk management Graham Martin retired as Company Secretary at the end of Risk management has always been a primary focus of the 2015 and will step down as Executive Director at the AGM.
Board but, with the heightened risks that come with increased Graham has worked with Tullow for almost 30 years, initially debt and highly uncertain commodity markets, we are giving as an adviser and since 1997 as a member of the Board.
the matter even more attention.
On pages 52 to 54, we outline I would like to thank him for his significant and longstanding the improvements that we have made to our risk management contribution to the Group.
The Board has appointed Kevin and assurance processes and on pages 55 to 63 we set out our Massie, previously Corporate Counsel and Deputy Company assessment of the principal risks facing the business and the Secretary at Tullow, to the role of Company Secretary and mitigation measures we have adopted.
I wish him well as he takes up his new duties.
In accordance with the requirements of the 2014 Corporate Future opportunities Governance Code, we have included a viability statement on Despite the uncertain market outlook, there is much to page 55.
The practice of reviewing the long-term viability of look forward to in 2016.
In West Africa, we have submitted the Company has always been part of the Groups planning the Greater Jubilee Full Field Development Plan and expect process and continues to be a topic for discussion at every TEN to come on-stream in July-August.
As we head into 2017, Board meeting.
Tullow will grow production to around 100,000 bopd net, with an average operating cost per barrel of around $15, giving us Uncompromising standards one of the most competitive production bases outside the A 75 per cent reduction in product prices would challenge any Middle East.
industry, and the exploration and production sector has been under intense pressure over the past 18 months.
I am therefore 2015 has been a year of both challenge and achievement for particularly proud that, despite the short-term pressures Tullow.
It is the firm belief of your Board that with Tullows new that we face, your Board and the management team have organisational structure, described by Aidan Heavey on pages 8 remained focused on our long-term strategy of creating to 9, our competitive West African production and low-cost shared prosperity for our shareholders and for the countries East African development projects, our exciting exploration where we operate.
In common with every other aspect of our inventory, and our talented and committed staff, Tullow is well business, we have eliminated unnecessary bureaucracy and placed to weather the storm and, importantly, to prosper when tried to simplify processes and clarify responsibilities, but market conditions improve.
we have not compromised our commitment to the highest standards of safety, health and environmental management, social performance and ethical behaviour.
Our achievements and the challenges we face in this area are discussed further on pages 46 and 47.
