239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 5 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that sectors, became less prevalent and rental growth became more of your Company continued a contributor to returns, something that should benefit the to deliver steady growth in Company.
2015 as the UK commercial property market index Significant Property Transactions again outperformed the There was significant turnover in the portfolio in 2015.
Over the major equity and bond course of the year, three retail properties were sold in Westonindices.
UKCPT delivered a super-Mare, Brighton and Kensington High Street, London.
In NAV total return of 9.1% addition, the Company also sold a Manchester office and an over the 12 month period, industrial unit in Brackmills, the latter as part of a swap outperforming the FTSE Alltransaction.
In total these sales were above their most recent Share Index return of 1.0% valuation.
The majority of cash raised from these sales was and the ten year gilt index deployed into the following properties: return of 0.8%.
While this return from UKCPT was behind that of the IPD benchmark return, Eldon Street, a City of London office purchased for it was achieved against a background of significant ongoing 27.5 million which provides the Company with exposure to portfolio repositioning, with the inevitable one-off costs.
The the vibrant City office market and a property in which some total value of assets traded was over 300 million resulting in a successful asset management has already been achieved by portfolio now valued at 1.32 billion.
Ventura Park, Radlett, an industrial estate purchased for Economic and Property Market Review 67.1 million within close proximity of the M25 and offering The performance of the UK economy in 2015 was unspectacular opportunities for rental growth.
However, compared to the other Central Square office complex purchased for 21.6 million in major developed economies, this was a good performance with Newcastle upon Tyne, located in the city centre and providing only the United States bettering this figure.
As in previous years, a secure income stream with a good tenant base.
UK growth was predominantly fuelled by the services sector with the economy showing little sign of rebalancing away from the Cineworld leisure complex, Glasgow purchased for consumer.
29.2 million : this is one of the UKs busiest cinemas with a strong anchor tenant on a long lease and the property also One noticeable theme throughout the year was a shift in the risks offers asset management opportunities.
faced by the economy both in the UK and worldwide.
Arguably, excluding costs & stamp duty the economy was held back in the first few months of 2015 by both the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the UK general This historically high turnover of assets was undertaken in line with election and the flux in the Eurozone as Greece teetered on the the portfolio strategy of removing assets that had limited future brink of Grexit.
Following a decisive UK election result and a deal return prospects and reducing exposure to the retail sector, which that avoided a Greek exit from the Euro, risk concerns began to is now below benchmark.
The assets that have been purchased focus on Emerging Markets, reflecting anxiety over the strength of will provide strong, sustainable income returns but also offer the the Chinese economy and the dramatic fall in commodity prices opportunity for capital growth from successful asset management which has continued into 2016.
These worries resulted in unusual initiatives in the future.
movements in the Chinese markets and sharp volatility in financial markets more generally.
Combined with the uncertainty caused by Further details on the portfolio can be found in the Investment the EU referendum in June 2016, growth in the UK economy is Managers report forecast to remain unexceptional this year at 2.2% according to current International Monetary Fund estimates.
One benefit of the Share price continued risks facing the economy is that the expectation for any The share price at the year end stood at 85.25p resulting in a interest rate rise has moved out considerably as inflation has share price total return of 0.8% in the year.
In line with the peer ceased to be a concern for the time being.
group and the wider listed Real Estate sector, the shares now trade at a discount to NAV of 3.7% as at 31 March 2016.
While this is As with the overall economy the UK commercial property market disappointing in the short term, since inception the Companys continued to grow in the year, albeit with returns moderating as share price total return of 51.8% has outperformed the MSCI the year went on.
Over the twelve months to 31 December 2015 benchmark 48.4% and the FTSE REIT Index -8.4%, underlining All Property, as measured by the MSCI IPD Quarterly benchmark, the attractiveness of the Company as a longer term investment.
recorded a 12.7% total return compared to 17.4% in 2014.
This moderation in returns was attributable to a slowdown in the rate of capital growth as yield compression, while still evident in some UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 5 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued Borrowing 29 December 2015 on existing terms.
As previously indicated, this appointment will not impact the full protection that shareholders Following the refinancing in April 2015, the Company continues currently receive under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers to have both the lowest gearing levels and cost of debt in its Directive.
As at 31 December 2015 gross gearing stood at a prudent 18.2% net gearing 13.4% with an attractive Board Changes blended rate of interest of 2.89%.
In addition, the Company still has the ability to utilise a 50 million revolving credit facility.
With At the end of 2015, the Board had five directors, three of whom the current 34 million uncommitted cash, the Company retains had held office since the establishment of the Company in significant firepower for the Investment Manager to actively September 2006, with the other two directors joining the Board consider further investment opportunities.
The Directors have carefully considered the appropriate balance between experience of the Company and the Dividends need to refresh the Board from time to time: continuity is important and succession planning for a relatively young company The Company declared and paid the following dividends during like UKCPT needs to recognise that shareholders will not be wellthe year: served if a large proportion of the Board retires at the same time.
Payment Date Dividend per Bearing this in mind, the Board has established a policy of renewal 2015 share p whereby directors retired at the AGMs of 2013 and 2014 and new directors with appropriate skills were selected by an independent 4th interim for prior period Feb 0.92 search.
1st interim May 0.92 As recently announced, having led the Company as Chairman 2nd interim Aug 0.92 since its launch, I have decided to step down at the Annual General Meeting in June 2016.
It is the intention of the Board to 3rd interim Nov 0.92 appoint Mr Andrew Wilson, currently the Companys Senior Total 3.68 Independent Director, to become Chairman upon my departure.
His knowledge of the Company and of the property sector A fourth interim dividend of 0.92p was paid on 26 February 2016. generally, combined with his leadership and energy, equip him particularly well for this role.
Based on an annual dividend of 3.68p and the share price at 31 March 2016 of 83.45p, the Companys shares produce a I am pleased to report the appointment of Mr Michael Ayre to the dividend yield of 4.4% which remains attractive when compared Board since the year end, taking the number of directors up to six to equities 3.8% and also the FTSE REIT Index 3.3%.
Mr Ayre, a Guernsey resident, is a qualified Importantly, this yield is underpinned by a prime portfolio of UK accountant and the skills he brings to the Board, particularly in commercial property that has strong income characteristics and a relation to taxation matters, will complement the existing skill set tenant base which compares favourably to the benchmark.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The Board intend to continue with a phased programme to replace the long serving directors over the next few years: this The Company notes the recent announcement in the 2016 UK ensures a gradual refreshment of the Board without sudden loss of Budget proposing to limit interest deductibility, which was driven collective experience.
by the OECD guidance published in October 2015 on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
This subject may be relevant to UKCPT as a Investment Outlook result of the inter-company loans in place between its different subsidiaries.
Whilst full details of the proposals have yet to be Total returns for UK real estate appear to have peaked for this published, the Board along with its advisers is currently reviewing cycle and it is anticipated that more normalised returns are in how this will impact the future taxation position of the Company, prospect for the next few years.
Further, income is likely to be the although it should be highlighted that the Company has main component of returns relative to capital growth which has significant tax losses to utilise should they be required.
As been a key element of returns over the past few years.
Despite previously stated the Board continues to keep the possibility of heightened global uncertainty, consensus projections for UK REIT conversion under review.
economic growth remain relatively firm and provide a reasonable backdrop for the UK commercial real estate outlook.
Relative to Investment Manager longer term government bonds, the differential in yield between real estate and other asset classes remains significant by historic Following the takeover of Ignis Asset Management by Standard standards especially with the diminishing prospect of interest rate Life plc in 2014, the Company formally appointed Standard Life increases in the near future.
The sector remains attractive from a Investments Corporate Funds Limited as the Companys fundamental point of view with robust economic drivers and a Investment Manager and Alternative Investment Fund Manager on 6 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 239795 UKCPT pp01-pp23 25 04 2016 10:56 Page 7 relatively limited pipeline of new developments.
Our Investment Managers forecasts point to positive total returns for investors on a three year hold period due to the elevated yield and improving income growth prospects.
If, as expected, income becomes the main driver of performance then the Companys portfolio, which is geared towards income generation and underpinned by a strong tenant base and low void rate, should continue to provide shareholders with relatively attractive returns.
Combined with a low cost of debt, significant resources still available to invest and a portfolio that offers opportunities for successful asset management, your Company is well positioned to deliver attractive, income focused returns in the next phase of the real estate cycle.
Christopher M. W. Hill Chairman 20 April 2016 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 7
