54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate Governance Report Governance Chairmans governance statement Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 55 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board is confident that Ultras strategy, reinforced by Ultras culture of accountability and responsibility and supported by a robust governance framework, ensures Ultra remains a resilient and sustainable business.
Dear shareholder, Strong governance continues to be at the core of Ultras culture and operations.
In September 2014, a revised UK corporate governance code was issued which applies to accounting periods commencing on or after 1 October 2014 the Code.
In the pages which follow, we have set out our governance policies and practices and included details of how the Group has complied with the Code.
The Board and its Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees have considered the Groups policies and procedures in light of the revised Code.
As a result, improvements have been made to the Groups risk management and internal control procedures the details of which are set out on pages 61 and 62 : and the Board has agreed a long-term viability statement set out on page 27.
Mary Waldner Group Finance Director will In the year, we have continued our active leave Ultra on 16 March 2016.
The Nomination engagement with the investor community Committee has been active in the search for a see page 62 and taken account of our new Group Finance Director.
Details of the shareholder voting guidelines.
From 2016 Nomination Committees work in this regard onwards, all awards granted to Executive are set out on page 59.
Succession planning for Directors will be subject to a two-year post the Board and senior management has been vesting holding period, whereby net of tax a focus in 2015 as described on page 60 awards vesting cannot normally be sold until at and will remain so in 2016. least the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
Strong governance and high ethical standards are the hallmarks of a sustainable business.
This is particularly the case during times of challenging market conditions.
The Board is confident that Ultras strategy, reinforced by Ultras culture of accountability and responsibility and supported by a robust governance framework, ensures Ultra remains a resilient and sustainable business.
Douglas Caster CBE Chairman 26 February 2016 6.
