CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUING TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE LONG-TERM GROWTH FOR SHAREHOLDERS.
Information on the AGMs can be found OVERVIEW throughout my chairmanship to engage within the NV and PLC AGM Notices which Despite another year of tough economic the Boards fully and actively in this process.
will be published in March 2016. conditions, 2015 once again saw the delivery In 2015 we were once again reassured by of consistent, competitive, profitable and the robustness of the process and by the responsible growth, a trend that has now pipeline of talent available inside Unilever.
EVALUATION been firmly established at Unilever.
Following the external Board evaluation A similar emphasis has been given to the in 2014, we used a simplified internal Over my tenure Unilever has undergone diversity of talent and in particular to evaluation this year.
Whilst we concluded significant change.
The portfolio strategy gender balance again, with great results.
that overall the Boards continue to operate has been sharpened and adapted in order The proportion of women occupying in an effective manner, in this VUCA volatile, to increase Unilevers presence in faster management grades now stands at 45% uncertain, complex and ambiguous world growing and more profitable segments of of the total, the highest figure in Unilevers we set the bar even higher for ourselves the market.
Innovations have been made history and up from 38% just five years for 2016 in relation to the knowledge we bigger and stronger and many more brands ago.
I am also proud to say that Unilever must acquire as a Board and the risk have been introduced successfully into new continues to lead the way among its peers assessments we must conclude.
markets, most recently in 2015 with the at Board level, with the proportion of female launch of Lux in the Philippines.
Non-Executive Directors in 2015 exceeding Each Board Committee also performed 50% for the first time.
its own self-evaluation again and agreed The step-up in performance that has on areas to enhance its effectiveness followed these changes has been founded ENGAGEMENT further and these are described within on a much clearer operating model and Throughout my chairmanship, the Boards each Committee report.
a streamlining of the organisational have looked to engage fully across the structure, which together have helped to Group and that was the case again in 2015.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND generate the funds for growth while also We were pleased for example to spend time SUCCESSION resulting in significantly higher levels of at Unilevers state-of-the-art R&D facility in During my tenure as your Chairman, operational discipline and service delivery.
Trumbull, US where we saw at first-hand we have sought to find people with Increased investments have been made in the high-quality innovations being relevant skills and experience to make a plant, product quality and information developed for the Personal Care category.
difference to the Boards discussions.
Our technology in order to modernise Unilevers thorough processes identified three new essential infrastructure and support Whilst in the US, a number of Directors Non-Executive Directors in 2015 and I was growth over the longer term.
also visited Silicon Valley to meet with some delighted to welcome Nils Andersen, of Unilevers global partners and to see The introduction of an inspiring mission in Vittorio Colao and Judith Hartmann during how we are anticipating trends and using 2010 in the form of the Unilever Sustainable the year.
They have further strengthened technology to better connect with Living Plan USLP has contributed to the digital expertise, financial and industry consumers.
The Boards also spent time business success, with Unilevers experience of the Boards.
Ann Fudge in Brussels engaging with European Union Sustainable Living brands growing at a became the Vice-Chairman and Senior EU policy-makers on how to make the faster rate than the rest of the Group.
Independent Director following Kees EU a more attractive and competitive Employee engagement has also risen Storms retirement at the 2015 AGMs.
environment in which to do business.
steadily since the introduction of the USLP and Unilever is now regularly recognised Over the years I have looked to engage LOOKING AHEAD as one of the worlds most admired and frequently and openly with Unilevers Even though the tough trading conditions sought-after employers.
shareholder base and that was repeated are likely to remain for some time to come, in 2015.
I met once again with principal the Boards have full confidence in the The Boards were pleased in 2015 to shareholders in Europe and the US and strategy Unilever is following and in the see Unilever further its commitment to discussed with them issues related to high calibre of its executive leadership and sustainable and equitable growth under the strategy and governance.
The progress Unilever USLP by becoming the first ever company delighted to visit the Philippines and has made over recent years leaves it well to publish a detailed, stand-alone Human Singapore as part of Unilevers annual placed to go on delivering consistent top Rights report under the framework set investor conference, where investors were and bottom line growth.
On behalf of the down by the UN Guiding Principles on able to see some of the factors behind the Boards I would like to thank all of Business and Human Rights.
strength and success of Unilevers Unilevers 169,000 employees for their A key element in the enhanced performance operations in South East Asia.
efforts, energy and the successes that you of the Group over this period has been a will read about in this Strategic Report.
I was also pleased to meet with individual steady improvement in the strength and shareholders at our AGMs in April 2015. depth of Unilevers senior management.
These were held for the first time at Leadership development, talent Unilevers offices in the Netherlands and management and succession planning the UK.
Following the success and have all been prioritised in pursuit of this simplicity of hosting the AGMs in-house, objective and I have been pleased Michael Treschow we will use the same venues again this year.
Chairman 4 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
Ann Fudge Vice-Chairman and Senior Independent Director 3.
Paul Polman 1 2 Chief Executive Officer 4.
Graeme Pitkethly Chief Financial Officer 5.
Professor Louise Fresco Non-Executive Director 9.
Tonia Lovell Group Secretary Graeme Pitkethly will be proposed for election as an 7 8 Executive Director at the 2016 AGMs.
For Directors biographies, please see page 58 of the Governance and Financial Report.
9 10 For more information on Board evaluation and shareholder engagement, see pages 46 and 49 of the Governance and Financial Report.
Committee reports can be found on pages 60 to 83 of the Governance and Financial Report.
11 12 13 14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 5
