STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONSISTENT PERFORMANCE 2015 SAW ANOTHER STRONG PERFORMANCE FROM THE GROUP, CONTINUING THE EXCELLENT MOMENTUM OF RECENT YEARS.
PHIL WHITE, CHAIRMAN Both total return per share and growth in EPRA earnings per share The outlook for our market remains positive and we expect were well in excess of 30% for the year and, importantly, this was student numbers to continue to grow steadily for at least the based on similarly strong growth in our independently assessed next three to five years.
However, at the same time, market forces customer satisfaction scores.
As a result of this performance we are operating more strongly than ever before across the University are declaring a final dividend of 9.5 pence per share, making sector, meaning that student number growth is unlikely to be 15.0 pence for the full year and an increase of 34% for the year.
uniform across all Higher Education institutions, and the high levels of investor interest in the student accommodation sector itself is Unite Students is a service brand and the strong performance likely to lead to greater competition from other accommodation we have delivered for our customers, University partners providers.
Over recent years, we have used our in depth and shareholders is only possible because of the talent and knowledge of the sector to position ourselves favourably in the dedication of our teams across the business.
On behalf of the local markets that are best placed for ongoing growth.
We Board I would like to congratulate them and thank them for believe this, together with our valuable brand and relationships, another excellent year.
leaves us well placed to continue performing strongly in the coming years.
Our performance has undoubtedly also benefitted from our consistent, focused strategy built on the three pillars of: building the most trusted brand in our sector, operating the highest quality portfolio, and maintaining the strongest capital structure.
The sustained successful delivery of our objectives in each of these areas has meant that the business has been, and remains well placed to, capitalise on the fundamentals of the student accommodation sector and in particular the continued growth in student numbers at stronger Universities.
PHIL WHITE Chairman of the Board 23 February 2016 Related sections Corporate Governance Statement p50 10 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
