Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 10 Strategic report We are Vedanta Chairmans statement A diversified portfolio that is delivering consistent performance in a challenging market.
Anil Agarwal, Chairman Highlights of the year My vision for the future is to continue to fulfil This year I was delighted to welcome Tom Vedantas potential while helping to advance Albanese to his position as Vedantas Chief the worlds largest democratic developing Executive.
His strong industry experience is already making a difference and he has nation economically, socially and sustainably.
demonstrated that he shares my vision for India is richly-endowed with the natural building an ethical, sustainable business.
resources that will fuel its future growth and The election of a new government in India is raise the living standards of its population of also beginning to have a positive impact on the 1.2 billion people.
We are working with our business environment we operate in and I believe employees, communities and Government to that the country will benefit from the progressive reforms being proposed by the Government.
help unlock Indias vast resource potential.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 11 1 2 Production growth Progressive dividends Copper equivalent kt US cents per share 70 2,500 We continue to 60 contain capital 2,000 expenditure and 50 operating costs 1,500 40 to maintain financial strength.
30 1,000 20 500 10 0 0 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY Near 1 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 term 2 PF Zinc-Lead Copper Power Oil & Gas Silver Aluminium Iron Ore This Government is firmly committed to supporting The substantial drop in oil prices during the year 1 Production growth a fast-growing Indian economy, to shape business has led to a revaluation of our Oil & Gas business Since IPO in 2004, Vedanta has policy and make it easier for the private sector and a US$4.5 billion net of tax writedown.
This grown production across its portfolio supported by its to create economic value.
We are among the is a reflection on the reality of oil prices today well-invested expansion programme largest contributors to the exchequer in India and doesnt affect our strategy in any way.
and continued focus on increasing R&R over production each year.
and play a strong role in nation building.
Vedanta We remain committed to being a diversified makes important, long-term contributions to resources player, capitalising on our strengths.
1 All commodity and power local and regional economies, paying around capacities rebased to copper equivalent capacity defined as US$15 billion in taxes, royalties and other levies Gross debt reduced by US$0.2 billion in FY2015 production X commodity price in total over the past three years alone.
However, net copper price using average commodity prices for FY2015.
debt has increased by US$0.5 billion, mainly due Power rebased using FY2015 Reflecting on another productive year, we to US$0.8 billion spent on increasing our stake in realisations, copper custom smelting capacities rebased at have proven that we are well-positioned to Vedanta Limited formerly Sesa Sterlite and Cairn TC RC for FY2015, iron ore capitalise on Indias abundant natural resource India during H1 FY2015.
Our final dividend of 40 volumes refers to sales with prices rebased at average opportunities.
Despite the volatility in global US cents per share, taking the full year dividend 56 58% FOB prices for FY2015.
commodity prices, we have delivered a sound up by 3%, reflects our continued confidence in 2 PF refers to pro forma for Cairn India acquisition.
To reflect the strength and prospects of the business.
this challenging market environment, we have implemented a series of initiatives aimed at The fundamentals for our business remain sound, 2 Progressive dividends reducing capital and operating costs across the but we have to navigate this downturn.
We Group, which will maintain our financial strength.
operate in cyclical markets and at this point in Dividends have been paid out every year, across the commodity cycle, the cycle our focus is on productivity, efficiency increasing progressively from 17.0 Financial performance and preserving value and I am confident that US cents per share 11 years ago to 63.0 US cents per share this year.
Throughout this year, we have remained focused this will happen given the strength of our on our stated strategic priorities.
We have businesses and dedication of our people.
3 In FY2004, a single dividend of 5.5 US cents per share was paid, started to ease back on capital expenditure for the four months since listing, and concentrated on increasing production We will continue to implement initiatives to equivalent to an annual payment through optimising our core assets.
contain capital expenditure and operating costs of 16.5 US cents per share.
to maintain financial strength during this period Weve seen unprecedented declines in oil and of weaker commodity prices.
At the same time we iron ore prices, though zinc and aluminium will preserve our portfolio of assets with attractive prices were relatively more resilient.
These long-term growth prospects and a strong resource affected Group EBITDA, which decreased by position.
We also aim to maintain a strong balance 17% to US$3.7 billion FY2014: US$4.5 billion.
sheet, with a focus on maximising free cash However, our diversified portfolio allowed us to flows, deleveraging and returns to investors.
maintain robust adjusted EBITDA margins of 38% on the back of our diversified portfolio.
com 13% CAGR 8.8x or 22% CAGR 66% Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 12 Strategic report We are Vedanta Chairmans statement continued Sustainability Vedantas role in transforming India Sustainable development is at the core of The winds of change for economic growth in India Vedantas operations.
Our Sustainability are blowing strongly.
A country of almost 1.2 billion Framework comprises of four pillars: Responsible people, India is the largest democracy in the world, I am amazed Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding rich in human and natural resources.
Vedanta has and Sharing Value and Strategic Communications.
a very important role to play in ensuring that India atwhat we have Our Sustainability Framework has a set of policies, is able to benefit from these resources and become achieved over with technical and management standards aligned self-sufficient in energy supply.
India spends a to international standards, to enable significant significant proportion of its foreign exchange the past 11 years.
improvement in the way we do business.
on importing oil, and local resources companies We have created including Vedanta can help redress this balance.
Social development is fundamental to any a value-based countrys growth and we are focused on platforms The new Government has a mandate for and empowered for education, healthcare, nutrition and sanitation economic growth and job creation.
We support organisation that that benefit around four million people every its reforms, such as the auctioning of natural year.
We work closely with local governments, resources and the Make in India programme, is well-positioned NGOs and academic institutions to help ensure which is designed to transform India into a global for its next stage that our programmes benefit as many people manufacturing hub.
India has so much to offer, as possible around our communities.
I remain and by implementing important changes such ofgrowth.
committed to collaborating on mutually beneficial as making it an easier place to do business, by partnerships that will further our positive impact opening up the country to foreign investment, and on communities and uphold our licence to improving infrastructure and productivity, it will operate in all our areas of operations with rising inevitably create jobs, particularly for our young expectations of corporate social responsibility.
people, and bring further prosperity to the country.
Vedanta now employs, either directly or indirectly, Outlook approximately 82,000 people globally.
While we Going forward, our overall strategic priorities are encouraged that there is an improvement remain the same, to build a resilient portfolio which in the safety performance of the Group this enables us to withstand a volatile commodity year, I am saddened that we experienced environment and continue to deliver long-term eight fatalities.
Our efforts across Vedanta, value to our shareholders.
Group simplification to achieve a Zero Harm culture is a personal is key and looking forward over the next year, priority for our CEO, MrTom Albanese and me.
Tom Albanese and I will be putting greater focus on this.
The recent name change of Sesa Governance Sterlite Limited to Vedanta Limited is a significant In 2014, we welcomed Katya Zotova, who joined milestone, which reflects Vedantas commitment the Vedanta Board as a Non-Executive Director, to strengthen the linkage between our businesses, and became a member of the Nominations communities and stakeholders across the globe.
She brings a wealth of oil & gas sector experience to the In terms of market conditions, India is at an Board and her perspective will be invaluable inflection point, with its metals and energy as we drive sustainable improvement demand poised to explode as its GDP potentially and growth in our global business.
doubles over the next decade.
Vedanta is a vehicle for new potential investment opportunities in a fast Diversity is a business imperative as well as an growing economy.
Over the next few years, we are expectation by society.
We have set ourselves likely to see the demand for all our commodities some challenging targets in this area and I and commercial power increase substantially as am pleased with the progress we are making.
the Government of Indias focus on Make in India Today, we have a strong management team and infrastructure investments start yielding with diverse backgrounds, including three results.
As a large and responsible corporation, female executives in front line positions.
Vedanta is well-positioned to participate in this journey, and I look forward to our future.
Id like to thank my energetic and hard-working Vedanta team I am amazed at what we Anil Agarwal have achieved over the past 11 years and Chairman their contribution is immense.
Together we 13 May 2015 have created a value-based and empowered organisation that is well-positioned for the next stage of its growth.
I would also like to acknowledge all my fellow Directors for their sound guidance and contribution.
