CHAIRMANS REVIEW SOLUTIONS PROVIDER Victrex continues to build on its clearand focused product leadership strategy, a strategy that is more than selling materials.
Results stage to market adoption and Victrex delivered a solid financial .
We expect performance this year and benefited tofurther invest in technical and from a diverse and balanced portfolio marketing going forward to drive of business.
The majority of our markets ourgrowth programmes.
performed well and helped to offset Following our record year of capital the challenges in the Oil & Gas market, expenditure in 2014, Victrex has a weaker performance from our Invibio concluded a number of major investment medical business and a significant projects.
Capital expenditure during currency impact.
Group revenue of the year was 41.2m 2014: 65.6m, 263.5m was 4% ahead ofthe prior which includes the completion ofour year 2014: 252.6m.
new PEEK and Aptiv film manufacturing Our profitability and ability to invest, capability.
Capacity remains only one alongside delivering appropriate returns of our three pillars, with our downstream to our shareholders, remained robust focus and technical excellence supporting this year.
On a reported basis, including our strong market position.
Going LARRY PENTZ the approximately 7m adverse impact forward, we anticipate a step down in Chairman on profits from foreign currency this our major project capital expenditure, year, Group profit before tax of 106.4m whilst retaining smaller scale project was 4% ahead of the prior year 2014: investment to support our move Strategy 102.7m, as was earnings per share of downstream, for example, in machining We have refined our focus on larger and 98.1p 2014: 94.6p.
Our continued focus or manufacturing capability to drive our more impactful high volume and high on manufacturing efficiency helped pipeline programmes.
Wewill continue value opportunities that require strong support our gross margins of63.8%, to look at acquisition opportunities and protectable technical excellence, which were broadly in line with the ifthey can accelerate our growth or marketing know-how and innovation.
This follows This means that Victrex is continuing term aspirations are toretain strong our first downstream acquisition, to differentiate and create genuine margins and focus on quality of earnings, ofKleiss Gears, which completed barriers to entry, with our vision to be although webelieve that absolute gross inJune this year.
more than a materials manufacturer profit isabetter indicator, reflecting These investments continue to be for our customers.
our downstream focus, capturing underpinned by strong cash generation, more share of eachopportunity.
Victrex is the world leader in with the Groups closing cash balance high-performance polymer solutions.
reaching 53.8m this year 2014: 89.6m Investment for growth Our historic manufacturing and polymer and no debt.
Overall, our balance sheet The strong investment in our products, sales roots provide a strong platform remains robust, underpinning investment, our capacity and in our research and to support our transition into an providing reassurance to customers development R&D capabilities to integrated global solutions provider, and enabling us to deliver appropriate deliver technical excellence remains supporting and working with customers returns for shareholders.
We have akey differentiator for Victrex, and original equipment manufacturers alsoset out a clear capital allocation particularly as we move downstream OEMs onshort, medium and long-term framework, which gives greater clarity into new added-value products and development programmes.
Examples on investment in the business and closer to our customers.
By working of our progress include a more focused shareholder returns.
A summary with our customers and end users, pipeline programme, our first downstream isprovided opposite, with further weare working across the value chain acquisition and an enhanced capability detail inthe Financial Review on producing PEEK, developing PEEK through our people, our know-how pages12 to 15. and pioneering the market for PEEK and over 100m of recent investment innew applications.
R&D expenditure in new polymer and downstream Dividends of 13.7m was slightly below the prior manufacturing assets to support The Boards approval of a new capital year 2014: 15.7m, but still represents delivery of our product leadership allocation framework seeks to prioritise 5% of Group revenue, which reflects strategy.
Our strategy KPIs are investment in our growth programmes, some of our growth programmes shownon page 11. whilst supporting a progressive dividend moving past the technical qualification and appropriate returns for shareholders.
Read about our governance Read about our sustainability on pages 38 to 48 report on pages 24 to 35 Victrex plc 06 Annual Report 2015 Overview GLOBAL SOLUTIONS PROVIDER Our vision istobemore thanamaterials manufacturer.
After investment in our growth Board effectiveness Safety programmes, and based on having no The Board is responsible for the Victrex was recognised with the Order other immediate investment plans, either Groupsstrategic development, of Distinction for its safety record and organically or through acquisition, monitoring achievement of its processes by the Royal Society for the Victrex will seek to return around 50% businessobjectives, oversight of risk Prevention of Accidents RoSPA this of the net cash balance each year to and maintaining asystem of effective year, a strong achievement that reflects shareholders, via a special dividend, corporate governance, which includes our 18th year of achieving Gold Standard.
subject to a 50p share fide minimis level.
the responsibilities for health, safety, We also recorded no lost time accidents, environmental, social and ethical a measure of our safety practices.
This framework prioritises growth matters.
A more detailed description investment, offers the opportunity for With new assets, new people and new of the governance processes that are enhanced returns, as well as retaining capability brought into the business embedded in our business are provided a flexible balance sheet.
Retaining an this year, Victrex continues to set the in the Corporate Governance section appropriate net cash position is also highest standards of safety for the of this report, starting on page 38. highly valued by customers in providing operation of its assets and with the .
highest regard for the environment.
Governance Away from our manufacturing Our framework for the regular dividend Effective governance is critical to operations, we have an unwavering remains unchanged, in seeking to Victrex and the Board regards the safety focus across our global teams, maintain cover at or around 2x and continuing setting, maintenance who continue to drive the market growing the regular dividend in line andreview of the highest standards opportunities for our polymers, with earnings.
For the current year, ofcorporate governance as a key whether at commercial, marketing, the Group is proposing to pay an objective.
The framework for our technical or support services level.
ordinary dividend of 46.82p per share.
approach is supported by the Audit, Dividend cover is at 2.1x 2014: 2.1x.
Nominations, Remuneration and People Disclosure Committees.
Asa testament to our strategy and Board composition For details of our compliance capability, Victrex was a finalist in Victrex recognises the importance withtheUK Corporate Governance theRoyal Academy of Engineerings ofdiversity at Board level and our Code throughout the year ended MacRobert Award, which recognises Board members comprise different 30September 2015, see our Corporate UK-based manufacturing excellence.
nationalities with a wide range of skills Governance Statement on page 38. and experience from different business On behalf of the Board, I would like to backgrounds, including international thank each and every one of Victrexs Sustainability and industrial expertise.
Our current employees for their contribution this Victrexs 2023 Vision timed to celebrate female representation on the Board year.
Whilst 2015 was not without the 30th anniversary of Victrexs is33%, already consistent with the itschallenges, the ability of Victrex formation has set out clear and recommended minimum representation employees to shape our future measurable sustainability targets.
by 2015. performance remains a key asset for Sustainability for Victrex is now firmly Victrex and its success in the future.
During the year we moved to further embedded in our business, whether that strengthen the Board.
Andrew Dougal is around our environmental approach Outlook joined the Board as a non-executive and maximising our resource efficiency, Looking forward, Victrex continues Director in March, bringing a wealth or in delivering products and applications todifferentiate itself through technical ofexperience from manufacturing which support sustainability and help excellence, application development and service companies, including as reduce CO for many of our customers 2 know-how and our significant upstream chiefexecutive of Hanson plc.
We also for example, in weight reduction and downstream manufacturing appointed DrMartin Court, Managing withinAerospace or Automotive.
At this early stage, we are Director ofour Invibio division, to the Despite some of our sustainability mindful that industry challenges in Oil & Board in April as an executive Director, performance measures being weaker Gas and Invibio may continue during whilst in September Jane Toogood this year, our commitment towards the first half.
For 2016 as a whole however, was appointed as a non-executive these targets remains unrelenting.
we remain well positioned for year on Director.
Jane is currently senior vice Further detail can be found in the year progress.
president of marketing and new business Sustainability Report onpages 24 development, polyolefins, for Borealis to35.
and has held senior marketing and commercial roles with ICI.
Larry Pentz Chairman 8 December 2015 Victrex plc 07 Annual Report 2015
