Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Chairmans statement A year of significant investment We have achieved a lot in the last year.
We have made strong progresson our strategy, while making a significant contribution to the economies in which we operate and providing substantial returns to our shareholders.
30 years of mobile, but the future is unified communications This year we celebrated 30 years since the first mobile phone call was made in the UK.
Today, Vodafone is an industry leader with 446 million customers, mobile operations in 26countries and fixed broadband operations in 17 countries.
Vodafone is bringing the benefits of the mobile and digital revolution to consumers and businesses across the world, from offering 4G services in 18 countries to providing services such as machine-to-machine M2M technology and M-Pesa, the mobile payment service that provides financial freedom to millions of people.
Today, I see two areas in which Vodafone can truly claim to be a leader: in our emerging markets operations, and in our services to the enterprise segment.
In markets such as India and South Africa, and increasingly in Egypt and Turkey, we are building clear differentiation in network quality, the power of our brand, and the depth and breadth of our distribution.
In enterprise, our international footprint and our investment in growth areas such as M2M and Cloud and Hosting services are making us a preferred partner to many major multinational businesses.
However, in our core European mobile business, we have been under pressure for several years.
Competition, regulation and the macroeconomic environment have all played a part, but in addition we have lacked clear differentiation in mobile, while also losing ground in some markets with the rapid adoption of unified communications.
And this is where the future lies in the provision of high quality voice, data, business and entertainment services across multiple technologies and screens, in the home, in the office and on the move.
02 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 Over the last two years, our move into unified The Board continues to consider the ordinary It will also be important for the Commission communications has taken significant dividend to be the core element of shareholder to pursue harmonisation of rules on spectrum, steps forward, both through acquisition and returns, and believes in a consistent dividend data protection, copyright and other areas, organic investment.
This year we raised the dividend as well as to adopt a principles-based approach revenue now comes from fixed line services, per share by 2.0%, and we intend to raise to the open internet to support future and we have 12 million fixed broadband it annually hereafter.
Our economic impact in emerging markets A major economic On 4G we have more than doubled our is no less strongly felt, yet there too we face contributor footprint in Europe in the last 18 months, continued pressures from regulatory and We have always invested at a high level to 72% population coverage.
In India, we now fiscal intervention.
In South Africa, for example, to ensure we are a leader in the quality provide 3G services in over 90% of our target the significant mobile termination rate MTR of service we deliver to customers.
Data traffic across the Group grew cuts of the last year had a material financial With Project Spring we are reinforcing that 80% during the year.
position, not only in Europe but across many These investments benefit businesses While India represents an excellent long emerging markets too.
Building on the Cable term investment opportunity, the present However, macroeconomic decline in Europe, & Wireless Worldwide acquisition, which regulatory challenges are hampering combined with the consequences of past brought us global fibre infrastructure and economic development.
Spectrum auction regulatory policies, has brought about a sharp points of presence in 62 countries, we are structures combined with the piecemeal reduction in return on capital over recent taking new services into new geographical release of new spectrum, leaves less capital years.
This has been exacerbated by market areas to deepen customer relationships and available for investment in bringing high structures which remain fragmented both grow revenue.
quality services to more of the country, between and within member states.
and this is exacerbated by other ongoing regulatory challenges.
Aligning management This year, we published a report highlighting pay to value creation and our overall economic impact across the Changes to the Board customer perception 12EU countries in which we operate.
In January, Stephen Pusey informed In 2013 14 Vodafone contributed 23.7 billion Our remuneration policies continue to focus the Board of his intention to step down to the EU economy measured in GVA or Gross on rewarding long term value creation.
His many achievements Value Added.
In addition, Vodafone: The annual bonus this year was slightly over eight years include the international higher than last year, reflecting improved a provided employment for 170,000 people expansion of Vodafones 3G services, performance against targets: but the failure across its direct workforce and European the launch of 4G in 18 countries and the to meet the three year threshold on free cash supplier base, as of 31 March 2014: development of global IT, procurement and flow resulted in a zero pay-out on the longcyber security functions.
More recently, a paid 2.4 billion to EU governments in direct term incentive plan.
he has led the Project Spring investment taxation, spectrum costs and other fees, We have also made a number of changes programme, and has also played a leading and an additional 4.4 billion in indirect tax to management incentives in recent years role in developing the Groups convergence payments in 2013 14: and to limit total pay, such as the reduction of the strategy.
Stephens successor, Johan Wibergh, a since 2000, has paid EU governments a total maximum achievable pay-out on the longwas previously Executive Vice President and of 20.8 billion for access to spectrum to roll term scheme and the payments made in lieu Head of the Networks segment at Ericsson.
out 3G and 4G networks across Europe.
During the year there were a number This year we have made a significant of changes to the non-executive team and The new European Commission has identified change to the criteria for the annual bonus these are set out in my Governance statement as a priority the need to reboot Europes digital GSTIP scheme.
We encourage the Commission to prioritise measures intended to ensure fair The substantial investments in networks and sustainable competition based on a level need to be supported by a clear step up in the playing field for all companies.
customer experience and satisfaction, and the Board wants this to be reflected in short term incentives.
40% of the total GSTIP assessment will now be based on Customer Gerard Kleisterlee Chairman Appreciation measures.
