STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE DISTINCT STRATEGIES FOR EACH OF OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUE TO DELIVER SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
Chairman: Henry Staunton CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I am very pleased to report another year of good Good corporate responsibility CR remains a key focal point for performance.
The distinct strategies for each of our the business and we are making good progress towards our businesses continue to deliver shareholder value.
We continue to build strong links with Throughout the year we have continued to grow the schools in the local communities in which we operate.
This year, as part of the WHSmith Trust Schools Giveaway, we have helped UK Travel business and further develop our hundreds of schools around the UK to improve their libraries.
successful international channel, while actively Many of the school children have written reviews of their favourite managing space across the High Street business books which have made some wonderful displays in our stores.
I am also pleased to report on a new partnership this year with tooptimise our core categories.
Marie Curie as part of a new initiative, the Big Readcycle, where we encouraged customers to donate a book they have read and We have seen an improved sales performance enjoyed, helping to raise valuable funds for the charity.
A more across both Travel and High Street, particularly detailed explanation of our approach to CR can be found on pages inthe second half of the year, driven by our key 22 to 24. initiatives and growth in passenger numbers in PEOPLE 1 Travel.
Headline Group profit before tax increased My sincere thanks extend to our 14,000 employees across the by 8 per cent to 123m.
These results would not be possible without the ongoing commitment and hard work of all our employees across our The Group remains highly cash generative stores, distribution centres and head ofces.
delivering a free cash ow of 109m.
OUTLOOK We remain focused on profitable growth, cash While we have seen signs of improvement in the wider economy generation and creating value for shareholders, in the year, we continue to manage both businesses tightly.
Looking tothe year ahead, we will aim to continue to deliver on while investing for future growth.
the distinct strategies for each business in order to maximise the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE contribution from both and best deliver value for shareholders.
Corporate governance remains an important area of focus for the Henry Staunton Board and underpins the sustainability of our business and the Chairman achievement of our strategy.
A more detailed explanation of our approach to corporate governance can be found in our Corporate 15 October 2015 governance report on pages 26 to 56.
1 Headline Group profit before tax excludes the non-cash income statement charge for pensions and pension service credit.
A reconciliation of Headline Group profit before tax to statutory profit before tax is provided in the Group Income Statement on page 63.
