Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 Strategic report 4 Chairmans review Creating value We need to put the customer at the heart of what we do.
Andrew Higginson Chairman I am delighted and honoured to be your new I am delighted that David Potts joins us as our new Chairman, a role I started in January having been CEO.
He brings more than 40 years experience in with Morrisons as Deputy Chairman since last grocery retailing and, having worked alongside him October.
Following a successful handover period, my for 15 years, I know he will bring a focus on the predecessor, Sir Ian Gibson, retired from Morrisons in customer, a track record of delivery, air, talent, and January.
On behalf of the Board, I wish to express our immense energy to his new role.
He will lead our gratitude to Sir Ian for his very considerable colleagues from the front, and with distinction.
contribution to the Company over the last eight years.
Dalton Philips was CEO for five years.
He brought Morrisons is a business I know well, having been a great personal qualities and values to his leadership competitor for nearly 20 years 15 years when I was of the business, having had to manage against a atTesco and, for over two years at Poundland.
I got backdrop of considerable industry turmoil and change toknow Morrisons even better in late-2014, ahead and we thank him for his contribution.
ofjoining and during my induction period.
From my The strategy, as laid out in March 2014, is broadly many visits to the shops, I could see that Morrisons correct.
We now need to up the pace, especially in still has many of the attributes and characteristics ourcore supermarkets, to regain trading momentum.
thatmade the business such a formidable competitor First and foremost this will be done via a relentless great traders, a strong fresh offer, and a deserved focus on the customer.
We need to put the customer reputation for offering good value.
atthe heart of what we do a simple aim, but not easy Morrisons is the most distinctive of the Big 4 to do well.
However, it has traditionally been one of supermarkets.
We manufacture much of our fresh Morrisons strengths and, I believe, is engrained in food and Morrisons Brand product in Meat, Produce, ourgreat colleagues across the business.
Deli, Fish and Bakery in factories that we own and We will free up resources from within the business operate ourselves.
This is unique in the UK and gives tore-invest more in the customer proposition price Morrisons a exibility, speed-to-market, and cuts, but also service and availability.
We will work provenance not available to our competitors.
Market harder than before to restore Morrisons value offer Street is also a distinct part of the Morrisons offer that and improve all the everyday small details of the helps set us apart.
We have more qualied butchers, customer shopping experience.
Success measures shmongers, bakers, and greengrocers than any of will be simple more customers buying more from our competitors they are the heart of the business us.
More customers means more volume growth.
and are what helps make Morrisons unique.
Ultimately, more customers and more volume will On joining the business, the Board and I decided that lead to better LFLs and profitability, but this will be we needed to build on these rm foundations and a gradual improvement and, near-term, the focus is return the business to growth by improving trading more on freeing up resources to invest in the momentum.
This, we concluded, required a change in customer proposition.
leadership, to see the business through the next three Throughout, our primary focus will be on free cash to five year period.
ow generation and optimising our capital structure.
Highlights Cost savings achieved Final dividend Total stores opened in 2014 15 68 224M 9.62p of which 57 were convenience stores Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2014 15 5 In the last year we have made good progress in freeing up resources cost savings and cash ow Governance highlights to invest in our customer offer.
We remain optimistic Board composition and membership that we will deliver on our targets for costs, working capital and debt.
We also have a strong balance sheet Our Board comprises five independent Non-Executive and remain committed to a predominantly freehold Directors and following the appointment of David Potts on property portfolio currently 86% of supermarkets.
We will maintain a tight control over capital All Directors, stand for re-election annually at the AGM, expenditure, focusing our spend on our core except for Richard Gillingwater who steps down from the supermarkets, to improve the shopping trip for our Board at the AGM.
This all provides good future cash ow visibility, and enables us to commit to an annual The Board is committed to a clear division of responsibilities dividend for our shareholders of not less than 5.0p between the roles of Chairman and the CEO.
Phil Cox has been the Boards Senior Independent Director since May 2013 and a Non-Executive Director since April 2009.
We expect the trading environment to continue to betough in the year ahead.
Although, lower energy As Audit Committee Chairman, the Board is satisfied that prices may well drive lower commodity prices and Phil Cox has recent and relevant experience appropriate to slightly higher disposable income for customers.
Our outlook assumes a period of price deation as we reinvest back into the customer proposition.
However, Board effectiveness our destiny is in our own hands.
It may take time, but it is this investment in customers that will improve The Board contains the skills and experience necessary in every detail of the shopping trip, restore our fresh and light of the Groups current activities and strategic direction.
value credentials, drive our trading momentum and, The Directors have all attended an appropriate number ultimately, return Morrisons to health.
of Board and Committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that Non-Executive Directors commit Andrew Higginson sufficient time to the Group and contribute to its governance Chairman and operations.
Below: External auditor Customer proposition We will free up resources from During 2014 15 we conducted a tender process for the within the business to re-invest appointment of the external auditor.
As a result, more in the customer proposition  LLP PwC were formally appointed as our new statutory auditor at the 2014 AGM.
The Board has a clear policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Risk and control The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of internal control and that risk is being managed effectively across the Group.
The Groups Internal Audit function perform periodic reviews of the key areas of our business.
Consideration has been given to financial reporting matters with sufficient challenge provided to management relating to judgemental areas.
