02 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WELL POSITIONED FOR FURTHER GROWTH 1 Amounts wagered Net revenue 8.9bn 1.6bn 2 Operating profit profit before tax 291.4m 184.7m 3 Basic, adjusted earnings per share Dividend per share 24.7p 12.5p 1 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue dened by the statutory accounts on page 106.
2 Operating profit loss is dened as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specic identied intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
3 Basic, adjusted EPS is based on profit for the period before exceptional items and amortisation of specic identied intangible assets recognised on acquisitions and omitted from operating profit.
03 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements Corporate governance and Major sporting events like the EURO 2016 Performance update stakeholder engagement football tournament in the summer give I am pleased to report that the Group us great opportunities to deliver the best has made substantial operational The Board continues to be committed possible experience to our customers, progress against our three strategic togood governance in promoting the particularly at a time of disruption in the pillars of omni-channel, technology and long-term success of William Hill.
Over industry with a number of large mergers international.
In technology terms, Online thelast two years, we have successfully currently happening.
As one of the largest now has the Trafalgar platform that transitioned to working with a new CEO, scale businesses in gambling, the Board allows us to deliver rapid and frequent James Henderson, and a new CFO, is confident the Group is well placed to innovations to customers, further PhilipBowcock.
We are also pleased to deliver on its growth strategy.
An important welcome three changes to the Executive part of our omni-channel strategy our Committee team, which will help to On behalf of the Board, I would like proprietary self-service betting terminal maintain strong leadership in the business.
to record our thanks to our William SSBT has also been enabled by this Hill colleagues for their continued Corporate responsibility remains a platform.
Internationally, it is pleasing to commitment to great customer service, key focus for the Board and we were see good signs of growth from William to innovation, to their local communities encouraged by the Groups continuing Hill Australia, which is now benefiting from and to encouraging responsible gambling work to develop measures that encourage our investment and reshaping to focus amongour customers.
Our broader the business on the recreational customer focus on areas such as our community base who are driving the structural growth Gareth Davis engagement, sports integrity and customer of that market.
Chairman data protection is also positive for our In profit terms, 2015 was always going relationships with key stakeholders.
to be a challenging year as the Group faced substantial additional gambling Outlook taxes in the UK.
However, excluding Looking ahead, we are well placed to these, Group operating profit grew 2%.
grow in 2016 as a result of our progress Given the Boards confidence in the in 2015.
Retail remains a very resilient and Groups prospects for growth, we decided highly cash generative business and this to increase the dividend payout from supports the Groups continued investment 40% to c50% of adjusted EPS, with the in digital and international areas to drive intent of continuing to target that level in further growth and shareholder value.
The Board has approved a 2.5% The omni-channel strategy will benefit increase in the full-year dividend.
We also from the roll-out of our proprietary SSBT announced plans to return approximately in 2016, Online is focused on delivering 200m to shareholders over the coming astrong pipeline of new products and 12 months, believing the Group can userexperience improvements, Australia increase its capital efficiency without isshowing encouraging signs of being very compromising its investment in growth.
competitive in that attractive market and the US business continues to grow apace.
