06 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Performance Our good results were achieved despite I am pleased to report that the Group delivered another set of good results heightened levels of uncertainty in against a background of continued challenges in the broader macroeconomic world markets with exchange rate environment.
During the year, we made further progress on the delivery of our volatility and lower growth in many strategy.
Our portfolio optimisation is now largely complete and our margin of the worlds developed economies.
progression has continued towards our 8% goal.
We were also pleased to have recently completed a number of acquisitions during the period.
Macroeconomic environment Our results were achieved despite heightened levels of uncertainty in world markets with exchange rate volatility and lower growth in many of the worlds developed economies.
Falling oil prices, volatile stock markets, and economic and political uncertainties affected many of our regions.
The falling oil price has led the worlds oil companies to review capital expenditure and also affected the economic climate in the Middle East.
Chinas recent higher growth rate declined somewhat and that, coupled with the Governments introduction of a programme of anti-corruption initiatives, led to deferrals in the award of projects and payments.
Delays in project approvals also affected Hong Kong, following the pro-democracy activity.
In the UK, the Governments commitment to infrastructure investment continued with major programmes in the rail, road and water sectors all progressing as expected.
In North America, the economic recovery was encouraging but remains fragile with long-term visibility around infrastructure investment being impacted by the uncertain political environment.
Strategy Our operational excellence programme is delivering efficiencies, particularly in North America.
In addition, on 1 April 2015 we reorganised our UK business to enhance our client focus, improve efficiency and drive business performance.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 07 Chairmans statement continued We also completed a number of strategic and our flexible working practices have Further details regarding dividend been introduced across our Energy payments can be found in Investor acquisitions in North America and Europe.
In September 2014 we received approval business and in our global design centres.
Our Energy business is also piloting a from the US Government which facilitated the successful completion of our programme to support women returning Outlook to work after maternity leave.
In the acquisition of Nuclear Safety Associates.
The Group has maintained its resilience This acquisition will enhance the capability UK, we were delighted to be recognised to challenging markets worldwide as one of The Times Top 50 Employers of our Energy business, and extend our through the breadth and depth of its nuclear footprint in North America in for Women 2015. market positioning.
2015 continues to see the federal and commercial US nuclear a heightened level of uncertainty in world industries.
In October 2014, we acquired During the year, we have invested in our markets with the consensus of forecasts brand to create a new purpose statement Houston Offshore Engineering, a leading of world economic growth between offshore oil and gas business based to capture the what, how and why 2.8% and 3.8% overall, but with of Atkins.
Rather than simply what we do, in Houston, Texas.
This business brings significant regional variations.
Sustained to the Group vast experience in the we want to be known for what we stand low oil prices and economic and political for, the things that drive us, and the way design of offshore deep water floating uncertainties provide a complex backdrop production platforms.
Our acquisition of we work.
Our purpose brings all that to near-term developments.
Terramar, one of Norways leading project together in one description and is outlined management consultancy firms, was in the Strategy section page 19.
In the UK, we are encouraged by also completed during the third quarter.
the continuing overall commitment by Board of directors the recently elected Government In September 2014, we completed the Rodney Slater and Alun Griffiths retired to infrastructure and the National disposal of our 77 person business in from the Board at our annual general Infrastructure Plan and we believe our Poland to Multiconsult, a Norwegian meeting on 30 July 2014.
Rodney served refreshed operating model positions multidisciplinary consultancy and design the Board for three years and I would like us well to take full advantage of this.
We intend to exit the Portuguese to thank him for his input during that In North America, as our technical market where we currently employ time.
Alun was with the Group for professional organisation matures, we 48 staff.
28 years and served on the Board as expect productivity will continue to an executive director for seven years: increase and help drive further margin People he was succeeded as Group HR director improvement.
In Energy we see a good We are fortunate to have a team of by James Cullens.
During his tenure, pipeline of work across nuclear and excellent people around the world who Alun made a significant contribution to renewable balancing ongoing staff are winning and delivering fantastic work.
the Board and more broadly throughout reductions in oil and gas.
In the Middle They play a central role in everything that the Company.
He will be missed East economies, the reduction in oil prices we do and I would like to thank them for and I would like to thank Alun for his may have some near-term impacts on their continued outstanding contribution.
longstanding dedication to the Group.
decision making and the launch of major Together, were making a huge difference.
However, I am delighted to welcome Catherine we believe essential infrastructure will We continue to maintain our focus on Bradley to the Board.
She joined as a remain a priority and the long-term inspiring and encouraging more young non-executive director on 9 June 2015 objectives of governments in core markets people to pursue a career in the and brings significant corporate finance are unlikely to be diverted significantly.
During the year, and acquisition experience obtained Asia Pacific remains well placed to deliver we welcomed almost 400 new graduates in the UK, Asia, the US and Europe.
on its strategic growth plan, helped by across the Group and accelerated our the acquisition of Confluence in 2013. apprentice programme by recruiting Overall, the outlook remains positive.
Dividend 71 apprentices within our UK business.
The Board is recommending a final Allan Cook CBE dividend of 25.5p per ordinary share in A more diverse workforce can help to respect of the year ended 31 March 2015, Chairman address the critical skill shortage in parts 10 June 2015 making the total dividend for the year of our business and our commitment 36.5p 2014: 33.75p, an increase of to building a more diverse organisation 8.1%.
If approved at the Companys continues to gain momentum.
We have annual general meeting, the dividend will increased the number of our womens be paid on 21 August 2015 to ordinary professional networks around the world shareholders on the register on 10 July 2015.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
