Who runs WPP Board of Directors Sir John Hood Non-executive director Age 64 Daniela Riccardi Non-executive director Age 56 Sir John Hood was appointed a director on 1 January 2014.
Daniela Riccardi was appointed a director on 12 September An international education and business leader, he was 2013.
A prominent FMCG, retail-and-fashion products formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford and executive, she is Chief Executive Officer of Baccarat, the of the University of Auckland.
In his native New Zealand, international luxury goods company, and was Chief he served as Chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd and as Executive Officer of Diesel Group, the innovative fashion non-executive director of Fonterra Co-operative Group, business.
She was an executive at Procter & Gamble for 25 ASB Bank Ltd, and other companies.
Sir John currently years, including service as President of Procter & Gamble serves as President & CEO of the Robertson Foundation, Greater China, with 7,000 employees, and Vice Presidentand as Chairman of Study Group Limited and BMT Group.
General Manager for Eastern Europe & Russia.
Ms He also serves as Chair of the Rhodes Trust and Teach Riccardi also sits on the Board of Kering.
Sir John earned his PhD in Civil Engineering is a Magna Cum Laude graduate in Political Science and from the University of Auckland and then won a Rhodes International Studies at Sapienza University of Rome and Scholarship to Oxford, where he was awarded an MPhil completed a Fellowship in Marketing at Yale University.
Sir John has been appointed a Knight Companion to the New Zealand Order of Merit.
Nicole Seligman Non-executive director Age 59 Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 46 Nicole Seligman was appointed a director on 1 January 2014.
Most recently, Ms Seligman served as President of Ruigang Li was appointed a director of WPP in October Sony Entertainment, Inc. and Sony Corporation of America 2010.
He is the Founding Chairman of CMC Capital and Sony Group Senior Legal Counsel.
Until 2014, she was Partners and CMC Holdings CMC, Chinas most Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Sony prestigious platforms for media and entertainment Corporation.
Previously, as a partner in the Washington investment and operation with an extensive coverage law firm of Williams & Connolly, she counselled a wide across the entire spectrum of traditional and internet range of clients, including major media companies, on space.
Ruigang Li has led CMC to create a number complex litigation and commercial matters.
She was a law of champions and emerging leaders in key sub-sectors clerk for US Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and including television, film, animation, sports, music, was associate editorial page editor for the Asian Wall Street location-based entertainment, financial media, financial Journal.
She was a Magna Cum Laude graduate of both and media data services, advertising, e-commerce, Harvard College and Harvard Law School.
ticketing, mobile video social network, game and education.
Ruigang Li was the Chairman and President Hugo Shong Non-executive director Age 60 of SMG Shanghai Media Group for more than 10 years and successfully transformed SMG from a ShanghaiHugo Shong was appointed a director on 13 May 2013. based provincial broadcaster into Chinas leading media He is the Founding General Partner of IDG Capital conglomerate with the most diversified business scope.
Partners and president of IDG Asia China.
He joined IDG in 1991 as an associate to IDGs founder and chairman, Patrick J. McGovern, for Asian business development after working for three years as a reporter and editor at Electronic Business and Electronic Business Asia magazine, where he launched over 40 magazines and newspapers in Asian countries, such as PC World Vietnam, the Chinese editions of NetworkWorld, Electronic Products, Cosmopolitan, Harpers Bazaar, National Geographic, FHM and Mens Health.
In 1993, he helped IDG to set up Chinas first technology venture fund, IDG Capital Partners, which now has $5 billion under management and an investment portfolio including Baidu, 109 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Tencent QQ, Sohu, Ctrip, Soufun and Xiaomi.
He Sally Susman Non-executive director Age 54 currently serves on the boards of China Jiuhao Health Industry Corp, which focuses on health maintenance and Sally Susman was appointed a director on 13 May 2013.
She retirement community projects in China, and Mei Ah is currently executive vice president, Corporate Affairs for Entertainment Group, an entertainment company with Pfizer, the worlds largest biopharmaceutical company.
Sally interests in television, film and theatre listed on the Hong also heads the firms corporate responsibility group and plays Kong Stock Exchange.
Hugo has been a member of the a key role in shaping policy initiatives.
Before joining Pfizer board of trustees of Boston University since 2005.
After in 2007, she was EVP of Global Communications at Este completing his undergraduate studies at Hunan University, Lauder, where she directed global corporate affairs strategy he attended the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and and served as a member of the Executive Committee.
She earned a Master of Science from Boston University in 1987. also held several senior corporate affairs posts at American He conducted graduate studies at the Fletcher School of Express, working in both London and the US.
She started Law and Diplomacy and has also completed the Advanced her career in government service focused on international Management Program at Harvard Business School.
trade issues and her positions included Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs in Timothy P. Shriver Non-executive director Age 56 the US Department of Commerce.
She serves on the board of the International Rescue Committee and is a Trustee at Tim Shriver was appointed a director of WPP in August the Library of Congress.
Sally holds a BA in Government 2007.
He is Chairman of Special Olympics and in that from Connecticut College in the US and has studied at the capacity, he happily serves together with over 4 million London School of Economics.
Special Olympics athletes in 170 countries, all working to promote health, education, and a more unified world Sol Trujillo Non-executive director Age 64 through the joy of sports.
Before joining Special Olympics in 1996, Shriver was and remains a leading educator Solomon D. Sol Trujillo was appointed a director of WPP focusing on the social and emotional factors in learning.
He is an international business executive He co-founded and currently chairs the Collaborative for with three decades experience as CEO of high-cap global Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning CASEL, the companies in the US, EMEA and Asia-Pac.
A digital leading school reform organization in the field of social pioneer and long-time practitioner of market-based and emotional learning.
He is a member of the Council on management, Sol was an early champion of high-speed Foreign Relations.
Shriver earned his undergraduate degree broadband and the mobile internet to stimulate from Yale University, a Masters degree from The Catholic productivity and innovation across all sectors of the University of America, and a Doctorate in Education from economy.
Sol currently sits on corporate boards in the US, the University of Connecticut.
He has produced four films, EU, and China and has managed operations in more than written for dozens of newspapers and magazines, founded 25 countries around the world including developed as an ice cream company, and been rewarded with degrees well as emerging markets from the EU and North America and honors which he didnt deserve but happily accepted to China, Australasia, Africa and the Middle East.
