Chairmans statement We are very positive about our ability to capitalise on the opportunity to out-perform our markets over the long term while at the same time improving returns.
Fergusons Blended Branches business is In summary Results and strategy the market leading specialist plumbing and I am pleased to report that 2014 15 has Strong earnings per share heating distributor with 15 per cent market been another consecutive year of success growth of 18.1 per cent.
Indeed, many of our businesses, for the Group with like-for-like revenue 83per cent by revenue, are either number growth of 7.1 per cent to 13,300 million one or number two in their markets.
Increased total ordinary and a good performance in trading profit, at dividend to 90.75 pence Once again, under the stewardship of Ian constant exchange rates, up 11.4 per cent 2013 14: 82.50 pence.
Meakins and his leadership team, we have to 857million.
Headline earnings per share made great strides in delivering our strategy.
grew by 18.1 per cent over the year to 230.2 250 million share buyback In addition to investing in organic expansion pence 2013 14: 195.0 pence.
We equalled and selected bolt-on acquisitions we programme completed.
our highest ever trading margin at 6.4 per remain firmly focused on developing more cent 2013 14: 6.3 per cent and delivered a efficient business models.
This includes strong cash performance over the period.
Further capital return of investment in e-commerce, new This has enabled us to both invest in 300million.
distribution centres and hubs, technology driving profitable growth, through organic processes and network infrastructure investment or bolt-on acquisitions, and also to support investments in operating return surplus cash to shareholders.
For example, e-commerce now Read more about this years financial accounts for 1.7 billion 13 per cent of the performance on pages 30 to 35 Groups revenue and continues to grow.
Customer service remains a key focus for Having broadly completed the reshaping the Group.
We have a passion to lead in the of the Groups portfolio this year, we now area of customer relationship management have a strong set of businesses to invest in and have made significant strides on this which operate in attractive and fragmented through the year, which Ian will cover in markets.
For example, in the USA, his overview.
Wolseley plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information We are very positive about our ability to Governance capitalise on the opportunity to out-perform We are absolutely Our Board and Committee effectiveness our markets over the long term while at the review assists us in highlighting areas in same time improving returns.
committed which improvements can be made and Our strategy is set out this year, in line with the recommendations on page 10 to maximising of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the review was conducted externally.
Your Board and Committees value for our The outcome of this review, and our progress against the areas identified for It is essential that your Board has the improvement in last years internal review, shareholders.
optimum balance of skills, breadth of are provided on page 62. experience and diversity in order to provide strong leadership to the Company Although the Company is not required to Last year we announced a 250 million and effective support to the Executive do so as a Jersey company, it meets the share buyback programme with the intention team.
The Nominations Committee has requirements of the regulations published of completing this within 12 months.
Im continued to review the composition of the by the UK Department for Business, pleased to report this was completed in July Board to ensure that we get this balance Innovation and Skills concerning narrative at an average price of 33.75. correct to achieve our strategic goals.
and Directors remuneration reporting which Reflecting managements confidence in the Biographical details for all Board members came into force for companies with financial business and the continuing strong cash can be found on pages 54 and 55. years ending on or after 30 September generation of the Group, and after taking 2013.
We have continued to meet all of Jacky Simmonds was appointed Chair into account the excellent opportunities to these disclosure requirements while also of the Remuneration Committee on invest in organic growth and acquisitions, monitoring developments and best practice 21 May 2014.
In her new role she has the Board considers that the Group has in corporate governance.
We describe how led a review of our Remuneration Policy surplus cash resources available.
The Group we have applied the Codes main principles in consultation with major shareholders.
has now commenced a 300 million share in the Governance section of this report on She has guided the Committee through buyback programme with the intention to pages 52 to 102. an in-depth analysis of our philosophy and complete this within the next 12 months.
I am delighted to The Board believes this Annual Report to be say that the positive outcome of the review fair, balanced and understandable.
In a drive Our people has introduced changes which simplify to cut clutter and to reduce repetition, I will Last, but by no means least, on behalf the remuneration structure, drive high reference, but not duplicate, some of the of the Board, I would like to thank all our performance and align the Remuneration points made here in my introductory letter employees who make our business what Policy more closely to the requirements of tothe Governance section on page 53. it is today.
It is the dedication, hard work all stakeholders.
Further details of the review and commitment of our people that deliver and the new Policy can be found in the Priorities strong results year-on-year and drives great Remuneration Committee report on pages The Boards priorities for 2015 16 are to value for our customers, suppliers and 77 to 102. continue monitoring progress against our shareholders alike.
In November 2014, Darren Shapland was strategy to ensure that we continue to appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee drive growth and improve returns.
We are after Michael Wareing stepped down from committed to succession planning and his position on the Board after more than investing in and supporting our people so five years of service and the handover of that the Group maintains an appropriate responsibilities was completed successfully.
balance of management skills and Gareth Davis On 22 June 2015, we announced that, capabilities as it grows and develops.
Chairman subject to approval by shareholders at For more information on Board priorities the 2015 AGM, Deloitte is to be appointed please see page 60. as external auditor following completion of the audit of the accounts for the year Shareholder returns ended 31 July 2015.
The formal tender We are absolutely committed to maximising process was led by Darren Shapland and value for our shareholders.
The Board has John Martin and further details concerning proposed a final dividend of 60.5 pence this process can be found in the Audit per share 2013 14: 55.0 pence per share Committee report on pages 66 to 70. an increase of 10per cent over last year Your Board will be available on 1 December for payment on 3 December 2015 to 2015 at the AGM held in Zug, Switzerland shareholders on the register at 23 October to respond to any questions shareholders 2015.
This will bring the total dividend may raise on this report or any of the for the year to 90.75 pence per share Boards activities.
Wolseley plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
