06 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans statement In our first Annual Report and Dear shareholder, Accounts since we became a In 2015, we delivered strong financial performance, demonstrating that we have publicly listed company in October a robust business model that is capable 2015, I am delighted to report a year ofdelivering strong, visible and recurring shareholder returns.
In support of our of significant progress, building our strategic vision, we have invested in our people, products and technology.
We capabilities for a successful future.
arecurrently entering the final stages ofbuilding our market-leading new technology platform and have a strong pipeline of technical innovation to help ourcustomers prosper.
In addition to the successful IPO towards the end of 2015, for which we gained external recognition as IPO of the year 2015 in the Broadwalk Service Awards, wealso put in place new committed bankfinancing and issued 500m senior unsecured notes.
We now have the capitalstructure to support our growth inthe future.
Since my appointment as Chairman in September 2015, I have spent time with our executive team and other employees to gain an understanding of this industry, our key strengths and the challenges we 07 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information face.
What is clear to me is that the and Bain remain large shareholders of the Dividend policy payments market is developing at pace, Group and, as entitled, have appointed The Board intends to adopt a dividend becoming increasingly complex and James Brocklebank and Robin Marshall policy based on a payout ratio of 20-30% of challenging: the expectations placed upon respectively as Non-Executive Directors reported profit after tax per annum, payments providers such as Worldpay are on the Board.
Each possesses a wealth commencing in the current financial year increasing: and, with our talented people, of knowledge about the Company and and we expect to announce our first our focus on the customer and our the industry.
interim dividend with our 2016 half year technological innovation, we are well results, payable later in the year.
As positioned to support our customers, both Governance and corporate culture referenced in the IPO Prospectus, no now and in the future.
The Board has made a firm commitment to dividend will be paid in respect of 2015. high standards of corporate governance The Board and this is further explained in the Our stakeholders We have built a strong Board with Noncorporate governance report.
We believe I would like to thank all our shareholders, Executive Directors who possess a diverse that strong governance should prevail bond holders and banks for their support range of skills and experience to throughout the organisation and we pay during the IPO, bond issue and bank complement those of our three Executive attention to the progress being made in financing and look forward to their Directors.
John Allen and Martin Scicluna building a culture that supports the continued engagement and support in served the Group as Independent Nonsustainable long-term success of the the future.
Executive Directors under private equity Group.
ownership and they bring knowledge of the Company and the industry as well as Colleagues substantial commercial and financial On behalf of the Board, I would like to pay experience to our new Boards special thanks to our colleagues, who have deliberations.
I am delighted that Deanna made a substantial contribution to our Sir Michael Rake Oppenheimer joined the Board as an achievements throughout the year.
It is Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director on particularly pleasing to see that a 8 March 2016 1 January 2016.
The breadth of her skills and significant majority are shareholders, experience in financial services will be aligning their interests with those of other invaluable to Worldpay.
We will further shareholders and enabling them to share strengthen the Board during 2016.
Advent in the success they are helping to create.
Link to Corporate governance report page 82
