Strategic report Chairmans statement Our consumer-led approach and proposition have helpedto drive strongengagement Highlights I am pleased to announce the Groups results for the year.
f In June, we announced the Our revenue and profits have grown significantly Acquisition successful completion of the this year as a result of the newly acquired In June, we announced the successful completion uSwitch acquisition Comparison Services division performing ahead of of the acquisition of Ulysses Enterprises Limited expectations and the continued robust and its subsidiaries together, uSwitch.
Founded f Secured the long-term commitment performance in the Property Services division.
in 2000, uSwitch is the UKs number one price of Alex Chesterman, Founder Total revenue has increased by 34% to comparison website and lead generation platform andCEO, to continue leading the 107.6million and Adjusted EBITDA has in the home services sector energy and Group to achieve its significant increased by 23% to48.7 million.
These communications and is one of the most widely figures include four months of uSwitch trading recognised and trusted brands in the price growth potential following the successful acquisition in June.
The acquisition of uSwitch The acquisition was funded by a mixture of was a transformational step in the Groups f Appointed Vin Murria asan existing cash and a new five year revolving credit mission to be the most useful resource for Independent  facility which was secured based on the highly consumers and the most effective marketing cash-generative nature ofthe business.
partner for professionals across the property space.
uSwitch has outperformed since the Our consumer-led approach and proposition acquisition and the Board is pleased with the have helped to drive strong engagement on progress made on its integration into the ourproperty websites and mobile apps as Groupso far.
consumers continue to rely on the unique services and data we provide.
The launch of Financial performance and dividends anew competitor negatively impacted our UK Adjusted EBITDA was up 23% to 48.7 million Agency numbers at the start of the calendar 2014: 39.6 million and Adjusted basic earnings year but as the year progressed, this churn per share EPS, which excludes exceptional slowed significantly and we returned topositive items, was up 29% to 8.4 pence per share growth in May.
After five months of consecutive 2014: 6.5 pence per share.
We maintain a UK Agency growth, the Group is well positioned progressive dividend policy based on the strong for long-term success.
cash generation and long-term earnings potential of the Group.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 2.5 pence per share to be paid in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015.
04 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our latest campaign: Zoopla billboards Following the success of its previous campaigns, Zoopla launched a new national marketing campaign in August which included stand-out billboards, buses and radio adverts.
The new comprehensive campaign evolves the current visual style and was designed to demonstrate astonishing Zoopla data and the informative and useful role the portal plays when searching for a home.
Our revenue and profits have grown significantly this year as a result of the newly acquired Comparison Services division performing ahead of expectations and the continued robust performance in the Property Services division.
This, together with the interim dividend of The Board received support from 84% of Annual General Meeting 1.0pence per share, brings the total dividend shareholders regarding the introduction of a The Companys next Annual General Meeting inrespect of the 12 months ended 30 September Value Creation Plan VCP in order to secure the AGM will be held on Thursday 25 February 2016.
Subject to long-term commitment of AlexChesterman, The resolutions at the AGM will be conducted shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Founder and CEO, tocontinue tolead the on a poll as we believe that this inclusive method Meeting, this will be paid on 3 March 2016 business and realise the significantgrowth enables the views of the broadest number of toallshareholders on the share register on potential of the Group.
shareholders to be taken into account.
I am 18December 2015. very much looking forward to the opportunity Another key area of focus for the Board in 2015 tomeet with shareholders at the AGM.
was the recruitment of an additional independent Share capital non-executive director.
After a careful and It has been an exceedingly busy, exciting and There has been no significant change to the rigorous search, theCompany announced the challenging year and I have been particularly share capital of the Company since last year.
appointment of Vin Murria as an Independent impressed by the commitment and resolve Following the discounted sale of shares to our Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2015. ofAlex and his team.
UK Agency partners as part of our exclusive Vin has 25 years experience of working with anniversary offer, Daily Mail and General Trust Plc On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank private equity-backed and publicly listed DMGT still remains the largest single investor everyone in the Group for their contribution companies, focusing on the software sector.
in the Company with a holding of 31.3%.
AlexChesterman, Founder and CEO, holds Following Vins appointment, the Board now 3.1%.
The Company continues to build up a comprises 10 Directors, two of whom are female, register of respected institutional shareholders.
with a good diverse balance of backgrounds, skills and experience to meet the challenges of Mike Evans The Board the year ahead, whilst implementing and driving Chairman This past year has been a busy one for the the Groups strategic direction and maintaining Board with particular focus on the increased the highest standards of corporate governance.
competition in the property portal space and Biographies of all members of the Board the acquisition of uSwitch.
Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 05
