Strategic report Chairmans statement I am pleased to report a strong total return of 24.6% on opening NAV for the year, which is materially above our annual target, and the highest since our IPO in 2007.
The Board is announcing a revised total return target, providing increased flexibility for future investment, as well as a new dividend policy designed to maintain dividend progression each year for our shareholders.
We have also increased the size of the Companys revolving credit facility on attractive terms.
In combination with the exceptional return generated from the sale of our interest in EversholtRail, this facilitates a return of , while maintaining a good level ofliquidity for new investment.
Peter Sedgwick, Chairman 11 May 2015 Performance The overall valuation of the investments in the Review of dividend policy and 3i India Infrastructure Fund the India Fund 3i Infrastructure generated a total return of total return target was broadly flat in the year.
267 million for the year to 31 March 2015, As I noted in the Half yearly report, the Board or 24.6% on opening Net Asset Value NAV.
has been reviewing the Companys shareholder This very strong return was materially above Total Shareholder Return return targets.
We are now announcing a new the Companys annual return objective of 10% We delivered a strong Total Shareholder dividend policy, which targets a progressive for this financial year and was principally Return of 24.9% this year, improving our annual dividend per share to shareholders, driven by the sale of the Companys interest in long-term performance record.
The Total and a revised total return target of 8% Eversholt Rail Group Eversholt Rail and by Shareholder Return in the period from the to 10%, to be achieved over the medium valuation gains across our Core infrastructure Companys IPO in March 2007 to 31 March term.
These changes reflect changing portfolio, as well as by good levels of portfolio 2015 was 135.8%, or 11.2% on an annualised market conditions and higher pricing in the income.
The Companys NAV increased to basis.
This compares favourably with returns infrastructure market, highlighted by several 149.9 pence per share at 31 March 2015 delivered by the broader market.
Over the recent transactions, and the consequential 2014: 126.4 pence, after the deduction of a same period, the FTSE 250 generated a Total impact of the compression in market returns performance fee of 45 million.
Shareholder Return of 94.3%, or 8.6% on an on the valuation of our investment portfolio.
The material demand supply imbalance in annualised basis.
Importantly, the Company the Core infrastructure market has benefited has generated this with comparatively low Dividend policy the Company, firstly through the sale of share price volatility.
Since 3i Infrastructures IPO in 2007, our Eversholt Rail at a very strong uplift to cost, dividend policy has been to provide our as well as through the positive impact on the Final dividend shareholders with an annual distribution valuation of the Core infrastructure portfolio, explicitly linked to the Companys opening NAV.
which also continued to be underpinned by The Board is proposing a final dividend for This policy has provided an increasing annual good operational performance, regulatory this financial year of 3.62 pence per share.
dividend, as we have grown our NAV and we developments and favourable refinancing This, added to the interim dividend of 3.38 have met or exceeded our dividend objective opportunities.
The combination of these factors pence per share paid in January 2015, delivers every year.
led us to reduce the discount rate applied a full year dividend of 7.0 pence per share.
to the valuation of our Core investments.
This represents 5.7% of opening NAV, ahead of The weighted average discount rate of the the 5.5% objective for this financial year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 10 Strategic report The Board remains committed to progressive Investment and Portfolio concentration growth in the Companys dividend.
However, realisationactivity As the Companys existing portfolio in light of the compression in market returns investments have increased in value and the and the significant increase in the Companys In January 2015, the Board approved the trend for larger transactions continues, the NAV in the financial year, materially above the realisation of the Companys holding in Company has become increasingly restricted development of the underlying income of the Eversholt Rail, which generated net proceeds by its single asset concentration limit, set at the investment portfolio, we believe it is no longer of 365 million.
The total proceeds to the time of the IPO in 2007.
The Companys existing appropriate to maintain an explicit link to NAV.
Company from the sale of its holding in investment policy states that no investment As a result, the Board is announcing a new Eversholt Rail, including the dividend of should exceed 20% of the Companys Gross dividend policy, which fide-links the amount of 15.5 million paid in December 2014, as well Assets at the time of making the investment.
the dividend from opening NAV and targets a as the settlement of all interest receivable, This limit can restrict the Companys ability to progressive annual dividend per share.
These proceeds represent invest additional equity into an existing portfolio an uplift of 139 million compared to the In light of the exceptional profit generated investment that may itself be undertaking valuation at 30 September 2014.
This was through the sale of the Companys interest in acquisition activity, or in a portfolio investment an exceptional outcome for the Company.
Eversholt Rail, which will be used by the Board in which a co-shareholder may be selling part We invested in Eversholt Rail in December to support future dividend distributions, we are of, or its entire stake.
The Board is therefore 2010 and, after four years of ownership, due providing dividend guidance for the financial proposing to amend the Companys investment in part to the Investment Advisers engaged year ending 31 March 2016.
We are announcing policy to increase the limit from 20% to 25%, asset management approach, the Company a target dividend for FY2016 of 7.25 pence per to provide additional flexibility for future crystallised a gross IRR of over 40% and a share, an increase of 3.6% on the proposed investment without significantly increasing the money multiple of 3.4x.
As this would be a Market conditions for new investment are material change to the Companys investment difficult, with increased competition and rising policy, it is subject to shareholder approval, Total return target prices.
Throughout the year, we maintained which will be sought at an Extraordinary The Board is also updating the Companys total a disciplined approach towards making new General Meeting EGM of the Company return target.
The Company was established investments and focused selectively on those alongside the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2007 with a target to deliver an annual total investments that are value-enhancing to the in July 2015. return to its shareholders of 12%.
In May 2013, Company and its shareholders.
the Companys return objective was lowered to Against this backdrop, we were particularly Liquidity management an annual total return target of 10%, reflecting pleased with our commitment to invest the performance of investments in the India The management of the Companys liquidity a total of 114 million in two further oil Fund and the Boards decision not to make was an important area of focus for the Board storage terminals alongside Oiltanking, our further investments there.
The Board remains committed long-standing partner in our Oystercatcher to managing an efficient balance sheet, Our business model and engaged asset investments and in five new primary PPP ensuring that it maintains adequate liquidity to management approach have delivered good projects in the year.
The investment in the pursue new investment opportunities, while not results in Europe and the Company has Oiltanking terminals is expected to complete unduly diluting shareholder returns by holding achieved an annualised total return based on by June 2015, while the commitments to surplus cash balances.
NAV growth and dividends paid of 10.6% since the primary PPP projects will be drawn at the IPO in 2007. completion of construction.
Earlier in the In February 2015, the Company secured the financial year, the Company also achieved availability of additional short-term credit We believe that returns compression in the preferred bidder status for the West of Duddon facilities to support bidding activity and, since infrastructure market could well persist, at Sands Offshore Transmission Owner or the year end, we renewed the revolving credit least over the medium term, driven by the OFTO project in the UK, with an investment facility, increasing its size from 200 million strong demand of a growing pool of investors commitment of approximately 25 million.
This meets the Companys for infrastructure assets that deliver stable This project is now expected to reach financial ongoing liquidity needs, including the provision cash flows in a low interest rate environment.
close in the summer of 2015. of letters of credit from the facility to support While these conditions have had a positive commitments to new primary PPP investments impact on the value of the Companys portfolio Finally, we made progress against our objective during construction.
We achieved this at lower investments, which were purchased in a more of realising assets from the India Fund.
pricing, such that the incremental cost of favourable prospective returns environment, During the year, the Investment Adviser took providing the additional 100 million undrawn they have also made it increasingly challenging advantage of positive market momentum in commitment is 0.3 million per annum.
for the Company to find investment India at the time of the general election and opportunities in Core infrastructure consistent subsequently to sell approximately 54% of the with the previous target.
India Funds holding in Adani Power.
The Board is therefore revising the Companys target total return to a sustainable range of 8% to 10%, to be achieved over the medium term.
This reduction reflects lower implied returns for recent transactions in the European Core infrastructure market and the recent increase in the Companys NAV.
A medium-term target, in place of the previous annual target, better reflects the nature and longevity of the investments in the Companys portfolio and the future investment opportunities it is targeting.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 11 Strategic report Chairmans statement In April 2015, the Company received net The Board aims to uphold the highest Outlook cash proceeds of 365 million from the sale standards of corporate governance and, Following a successful year for the Company, of Eversholt Rail.
Given our commitment to in the year under review, complied with all which has seen the delivery of a significant efficient balance sheet management, the applicable provisions of the UK Corporate increase in NAV for our shareholders, as well increase in the Companys liquidity following Governance Code.
At the last AGM, held on 8 as the expansion of our primary PPP portfolio the receipt of these proceeds and the increase July 2014, shareholders approved the election through the Investment Advisers increased of the Companys revolving credit facility by or re-election of all Directors as proposed to capabilities in this area, we have taken steps to the Board.
This years AGM will be held on 7 100 million, the Board is announcing its position the Company for the future.
The non-executive Directors base intention to implement a 150 million return fees have been unchanged since 2008.
The of capital to shareholders through a special There is clear evidence that competition for Remuneration Committee has proposed an dividend of 17.0 pence per share, expected to infrastructure assets has increased.
We have increase to non-executive Directors fees which therefore revised the Companys return target be paid in July 2015.
This return of capital will will be subject to shareholder approval and to position the Company to continue to deliver allow shareholders to participate in the success therefore will be included in the resolutions put an attractive total return, with a progressive of the realisation of Eversholt Rail, while to the AGM.
ensuring that the Company retains a good level of liquidity for new investment.
During the year, the Company also held It is proposed that the return of capital is an EGM.
On 9 May 2014, the Company combined with a share consolidation which is announced that it had entered into an subject to shareholder approval, which will be agreement the Amendment Agreement sought at an EGM, alongside the Companys with its Investment Adviser to amend the terms AGM in July 2015.
The target dividend for of the existing investment advisory agreement FY2016 is calculated assuming that the share between the Company and the Investment consolidation is approved.
The principal changes included a reduction in the fee rate for future primary PPP Corporate governance, Board and certain renewable project investments and the addition of a high water mark requirement developments and shareholder to the performance fee calculation, conditional meetings upon obtaining the approval of both the Jersey Financial Services Commission and the There were several changes to the Board Companys shareholders other than 3i Group during the year.
Earlier in the year, as set plc at an EGM.
out in the 2014 Annual report, following the appointment of Ben Loomes as Managing The Companys EGM was held on 8 July 2014 Partner of 3i Groups Infrastructure business, and the resolution regarding the Amendment Ian Lobley replaced Ben as 3i Groups nominee Agreement was approved by independent non-executive Director on the Board with effect shareholders with an overwhelming majority from 6 May 2014. of over 99% of the votes.
The Jersey Financial Services Commission approval was obtained On 6 November 2014, the Company announced prior to the EGM.
that Sir John Collins would step down from the Board from 31 December 2014, after six years as a non-executive Director.
We would like to thank Sir John for his significant contribution to the Company over the years.
On the same day, the Company also announced the appointment of Douglas Bannister and Wendy Dorman as non-executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2015 and 1 March 2015 respectively.
Both are resident in Jersey and bring relevant experience to the Board.
Douglas has significant experience in the ports sector, and is currently CEO of Ports of Jersey, and Wendy is currently a partner at PwC and Chairman of the Jersey Branch of the Institute of Directors.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 12
