Chairmans statement We believe that the long term fundamental attractions of investing in these high growth economies remain and that these markets will deliver significant returns for the patient investor.
Our strategy is based on our conviction that these markets will recover strongly over time and our priority is to ensure that our clients continue to be well positioned to reap the long term benefits.
However, for some time now, the Board has recognised the impact that an Emerging Market correction could have on our business and performance, and we have been pursuing a deliberate Roger Cornick strategy to mitigate against this risk.
This strategy has three Chairman principal strands: Diversification.
We have steadily been rebalancing the business Progress in 2015 has been achieved against a challenging both organically and by acquisition.
Increasingly investors are backdrop, and we have remained resolute in focusing on our seeking solutions to meet their investment objectives, rather strategic priorities, especially around building a more diversified than simply purchasing an array of products across different business.
The integration of SWIP is complete and has delivered asset classes.
The SWIP acquisition was a major step, with the cost synergies ahead of expectations.
We continue to invest for acquisitions we have announced more recently adding further future growth and have announced four small, but strategically strength to our alternatives and multi asset capabilities.
The ongoing diversification is targeted Cash management.
Core operating cash flow was at developing new opportunities especially in solutions and 531.7 million, continuing our consistently strong cash flows alternatives, both important products for the defined contribution from operations.
This has allowed us to strengthen the balance pensions world.
We have begun to harness the opportunities sheet over the last five years, being part of a deliberate strategy from these additional capabilities with several fund launches in to enable us to weather market downturns and to continue to recent months.
At year end, the Group had a cash Net outflows were 33.9 billion and the main contributing factors position of 567.7 million.
were weak investor sentiment towards Asia and Emerging Markets Cost discipline.
We have achieved significant cost synergies and expected outflows from closed life books managed for from the acquisition and integration of SWIP.
We have also been impacted by our share of withdrawals consistently applied a rigorous cost discipline to protect from sovereign wealth funds.
We recognise that market conditions operating margins and in the year ahead we will continue to are challenging in the near term, but continue to commit to active look for appropriate savings, but we will focus our efforts on asset management through our disciplined, long term approach back office and support operations to ensure that our core fund to investing.
management teams and the service we provide to our clients Our commitment to financial discipline remains undiminished: remain as strong as ever.
costs have been tightly controlled, and we see opportunities to Financial highlights deliver further efficiencies.
Our strong balance sheet and cash flow generation have given the Board confidence to propose a 7% Net revenue for the year of 1,169.0 million was 5% higher increase in the final dividend, making a total dividend for the year than in 2014: recurring fee income was 5% higher, while of 19.5p per share.
performance fees reduced to 13.5 million 2014: 21.7 million.
Additional revenue from the first full year of SWIP offset the Looking beyond the short term impact of net outflows and markets.
Asian and Emerging Markets are undergoing a cyclical correction.
Operating costs increased by 7% to 670.3 million, largely due Traditionally these are areas of significant strength for Aberdeen, to the inclusion of a full year of the SWIP business this year.
but we have experienced outflows from some investors who We have exceeded our initial expectations on the cost synergies have made their asset allocation decisions on the basis of their from this transaction and, as we have worked through the macroeconomic views on these markets.
transition and integration, we have identified further efficiencies within the enlarged business.
We have therefore implemented a programme to reduce annual operating costs by approximately Dividend per share 50 million.
Much of these savings will be achieved later in 2016, with the full benefit to come through in 2017.
19.5p 8.3% 2014: 18.0p 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Underlying operating profit, which is stated before amortisation We also issued 100 million of non-voting, perpetual, nonof intangible assets and acquisition-related items, increased to cumulative, redeemable preference shares during the year.
498.7 million 2014: 490.4 million, while the operating The proceeds from this issue were used to increase the level of margin fell slightly to 42.7% 2014: 43.9%.
After the deduction seed capital we are prepared to invest to generate organic growth of acquisition-related items and amortisation, statutory profit through the launch of new funds.
We made investments in the before tax was broadly unchanged at 353.7 million second half of the year in new liquid alternatives and multi asset 2014: 354.6 million.
products, bringing total net new investments in seed capital during 2015 to over 100 million.
Seed capital holdings at the year end There has, again, been strong conversion of operating profit totalled 148.9 million.
to cash, with core operating cashflow of 531.7 million 2014: 543.8 million.
The balance sheet remains strong, with a Acquisitions year end cash position of 567.7 million 2014: 653.9 million, As part of our strategy to develop our capabilities in solutions and we have maintained a healthy level of headroom above our we announced four acquisitions.
The solutions and alternatives regulatory capital requirement.
sectors are still relatively fragmented and one where we have the opportunity to develop a significant business in a growth sector.
Dividend and capital management The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.0p per share, The acquisitions of FLAG Capital Management, which we making a total payment for the year of 19.5p per share, an completed on 31 August, and Arden Asset Management, which increase of 8.3% on the total payment for 2014, and consistent we expect to complete during December, bring US expertise to with the Boards commitment to a progressive dividend policy.
our private equity and hedge fund solutions capabilities.
The final dividend will be paid on 3 February 2016 to qualifying Once fully integrated, they will create a global alternatives shareholders on the register at 8 January 2016. platform with AuM of over 20 billion from which we will seek to build organically.
The acquisition of Advance Emerging Capital, We continued to build additional headroom over our regulatory a small fund of funds business, will also supplement our capital requirement, and we utilised 50 million of the surplus to alternatives business.
repurchase 13.7 million ordinary shares for cancellation.
A further 52 million was used to settle the initial consideration for the The acquisition of Parmenion Capital Partners, also expected to acquisition of FLAG Capital Management LLC FLAG, which we complete during December, is intended to enhance our solutions completed at the end of August.
Parmenion provides outcome oriented solutions to meet client needs via an online platform, which remains the most highly rated by the UK adviser client base.
Highlights 2015 2014 Net revenue 1,169.0m 1,117.6m Underlying results: before amortisation and acquisition-related items Profit before tax 491.6m 490.3m Diluted earnings per share 30.0p 31.1p Statutory results Profit before tax 353.7m 354.6m Diluted earnings per share 21.8p 22.8p Total dividend per share 19.5p 18.0p Gross new business 42.5bn 34.7bn Net new business 33.9bn 20.4bn Assets under management at the year end 283.7bn 324.4bn aberdeen-asset.
com 7 Chairmans statement continued Investment review In equities, net outflows rose from 13.0 billion in 2014 to capabilities with a number of key hires, including new leadership of 16.4 billion this year.
A major factor has been asset allocation our flagship diversified growth strategy, which has been met with changes by clients, largely on the basis of their views on positive initial client feedback and significantly increased interest.
In particular, investors have reduced We have strengthened our product set with the launch of a new exposure to Asia and Emerging Markets.
This was a persistent global multi asset income strategy and a long term savings multi theme during the year, but was more pronounced in the final asset fund range in the UK.
quarter, with the industry experiencing the worst quarter for Demand for alternative investments and strategies has continued outflows from this asset class since the global financial crisis.
to grow across the industry.
We manage 14 billion in specialist This asset allocation theme was compounded by a number of areas including hedge fund solutions, private equity, property sovereign wealth funds reducing their market exposure in multi manager and infrastructure.
response to the low oil price.
Our alternatives teams launched a number of new funds, including There has been focus on the underperformance of our equities infrastructure and liquid alternatives products, which raised an products against their respective benchmarks.
While this is never initial 350 million.
The newly acquired US private equity team comfortable, as a true active manager we are prepared to take formerly FLAG successfully launched a new fund in the first positions which diverge from benchmark weightings in our pursuit few weeks after completion and we expect to have a strong of long term returns from high quality holdings.
We will continue programme of fund launches in the years ahead.
to invest in accordance with our disciplined and fundamental process and fully expect to generate long term performance for The Board our clients.
While we will not change our investment approach, we I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board who have, once will continue to make refinements to our process as we have over again, made valuable contributions to its effective operation the past 30 years.
We continue to refresh and add strength to the Board and I am very happy to welcome Val Rahmani as a nonFixed income performance has been consistently strong across executive director.
Val was formerly CEO of US internet security most of our capabilities and we are starting to see encouraging software firm, Damballa and, prior to that, held a number of senior signs from the changes that we have made to this asset class in management roles with IBM Corporation.
recent years when we changed the leadership and integrated the SWIP business.
On behalf of my fellow directors I would like to welcome every new colleague who has joined Aberdeen over the past year This year, we have simplified our fixed income team structure, and to thank all of our staff for their continued dedication and with focus on our global teams, supported by our regional commitment to the Groups continuing success.
We believe that this structure will enable us to grow on the back of several years of consistent and improving fixed income Outlook performance.
This does not change the process: it does help our Our prime objective is to ensure that clients achieve the long term teams to share ideas and is another step forward that has been outcomes that they expect - we remain focussed on this goal.
welcomed by clients and consultants.
While we anticipate that global markets may continue to present The breadth of our property capabilities has never been stronger.
some challenges in our new financial year, we are committed Our approach is consistent across the markets where we invest to controlling costs and driving efficiency.
We will do so whilst and our ambition remains to be global.
The new team in Singapore continuing to invest across the business to take advantage of the is establishing its presence in the region, whilst we continue to longer term trends in investment management and to compete look for the right opportunity to expand in North America.
Our balance sheet is strong and We have added new teams in Spain and Belgium.
There is a our teams have the talent and commitment to deliver profitable significant pipeline of capital committed by our clients which we growth in the years to come.
will invest in a disciplined way, favouring property with appropriate We remain positive on the longer term opportunities and we will levels of durable income over capital speculation.
continue to manage the business efficiently with the objective of Within Aberdeen Solutions, the multi asset and quantitative delivering value for clients and shareholders.
investment teams manage 105 billion, principally in multi asset strategies.
Around 90% is managed for insurance clients with around half invested on behalf of closed books.
Outflows from this type of business accounted for most of the 9.5 billion lost.
Equally, we see our scale as an advantage to attracting new Roger Cornick business: we have significant experience in managing diversified Chairman portfolios for insurance and wealth management clients and we expect that there will be opportunities for growth in these 27 November 2015 channels in the next few years.
We have actively invested in our 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report We remain focused on growing AuM by servicing our clients well, delivering high quality investment expertise across all asset classes, recruiting and retaining talented and motivated employees and, in doing so, creating long term value for our shareholders.
2015 has been a challenging year, but we recognised the risk of market uncertainty and therefore, over recent periods, have focused on diversification, balance sheet management and cost control.
We believe our strategy for growth, focus on risk management and a disciplined approach to controlling costs, will ensure we are well positioned to benefit from important sector trends and deliver value over the long term.
Margin supported by good cost discipline and benefits of SWIP transaction.
