130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 2 Chairmans Statement Review of 2015 performance Small UK quoted companies performed well in 2015, more so when compared with the returns of larger companies.
The FTSE 100 Index gave a total return of -1.3%, while the FTSE All-Share Index, which is heavily weighted towards large companies, delivered a return of 1.0%.
By comparison, the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies NSCI XIC, ASCoTs benchmark, produced a return of 10.6%.
Over the same period, the Companys net asset value total return was 10.2%, while the share price total return was 13.9%.
The share price total return outperformance benefited from a narrowing in the discount during the year, which was also seen by a number of other investment trusts in the sector.
ASCoTs modest under-performance against the NSCI XIC came in a year that proved to be one of the most challenging for value investors in the Companys twenty five year history.
Importantly, the Board is confident that the years outcome did not reflect any dilution of the Managers dedication to their value investment principles.
The Managers Report expands on the factors that affected performance in 2015.
Dividends The Company continues to benefit from the positive dividend environment within the UK small company sector.
In this context, the Board is pleased to propose a final ordinary dividend of 17.85p.
This results in total ordinary dividends for the year of 26.0p, which represents an increase of 5.1% on 2014.
In 2015, the revenue account benefited from the receipt of seven special dividends paid by investee companies.
This embarrassment of riches has led the Board to propose the payment of a special dividend of 2.75p per share in addition to the final ordinary dividend.
This will ensure that the all-important retention test is passed and allow the Company to continue to operate as an investment trust in the eyes of HMRC.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
The Companys revenue reserves, after adjusting for payment of both the final ordinary and special dividends, amount to 45.1p per share up from 38.6p as at 31 December 2014 and provide a degree of flexibility for the future.
To be clear, I would highlight that the base level for the Companys progressive dividend policy in 2016 is 26.0p, i. e. excluding the special dividend.
Both dividends are subject to Shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting and, if approved, will be paid on 4 March 2016 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 February 2016.
Their ex dividend date is 11 February 2016.
ASCoT operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Details of the plan, including the Form of Election, are available from Capita Registrars.
Contact details can be found on the inside back cover.
Gearing Throughout its life it has been the Companys policy to use gearing in a tactical manner.
The Royal Bank of Scotland facility is due to expire on 15 June 2017.
The facility provides the Managers with flexibility in accessing liquidity for investment purposes, as well as the ability to fund share buy-ins without disturbing the underlying portfolio.
At the year end, gearing stood at 0.3% of Shareholders funds.
During the year, the level of gearing ranged from nil to 4.8% with an average of 2.1%.
Share buy-in At the Annual General Meeting in February 2015, the authority to buy in up to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary Shares was approved.
During the year, 321,000 Ordinary Shares 0.3% of issued share capital were bought in at a total cost of 3.7 million.
Those Shares have been cancelled rather than held in Treasury.
Once again, the Board will be seeking to renew the buy-in authority at the Annual General Meeting on 1 March 2016.
Costs Costs are also a significant influence on net returns.
During the year the Board agreed with the Managers a simplified and reduced fee structure for the Company.
The Board continues to monitor how the Company compares against its peers in fee terms but is always cognisant that delivering outperformance is of most importance.
The fee adjustment helps to offset the ever increasing burden of regulatory costs.
The Managers Report comments on transaction costs incurred during the year.
Again, the Board and the Managers discuss the extent of these costs regularly.
We expect and welcome an industry trend to increased transparency of transaction costs in coming years.
2 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 130920 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 130920 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2016 14:17 Page 3 Chairmans Statement Conclusion ASCoT celebrated its quarter century in December 2015.
Since the Companys formation in 1990, the NSCI XIC has generated a total return of 11.2% per annum.
By comparison, the Companys net asset value total return has been 13.9% per annum.
Outperformance of this magnitude over such a long period is beyond the realm of chance and credit must be paid to the Managers consistent and diligent application of investment style, coupled with sound research.
During the past 25 years, the Company has experienced periods when small UK quoted companies have been in and out of fashion, and, in a similar vein, when the value investing style has waxed and waned.
Consequently not every investor has the benefit of the 25 year record and some will have more difficult performance histories depending on the timing of their purchases.
This will always be the case, no matter how successful the Manager or diligent the Board, but it serves to emphasise that investment in ASCoT should be viewed as a medium to long term opportunity for exposure to a sector and style that tend to reward the patient investor.
In the years since the global financial crisis, high absolute returns from small UK quoted companies have come against the background of leadership by the growth style.
This has also been a period of extraordinary monetary policy.
It is difficult to calibrate the precise effects of zero interest rates and quantitative easing on investment styles, but a relationship beyond pure coincidence seems plausible.
With the Federal Reserve increasing interest rates in December 2015, we are at least reminded that nothing remains constant in financial markets: interest rates do not just fall and strong style leadership does not last forever.
As I alluded to earlier, 2015 has been an extremely challenging year for the value investor.
None of us know what 2016 will deliver.
The Board remains firmly of the view that the Company is extremely well served by the Managers.
The value investment style has been applied consistently through cycles while the focus and evolution of the investment team continue to serve shareholders well.
The experienced team, and its financial commitment to the Company, underpins a business structure that in the Boards view has been of great importance in delivering an excellent long term performance record.
Finally, the Board very much welcomes the views of Shareholders and we are always available to talk to Shareholders directly.
My email address is noted below.
Paul Trickett Chairman 27 January 2016 paul.
co. uk Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 3
