Chairmans statement Alastair Lyons, CBE Admiral is different 2015 in summary Group pre-tax profits grew by 6% A business is as good as its UK Car Insurance business improved profits by 11% to people and we at Admiral are hugely 443 million fortunate to have great people Growth in our young UK household book to over whose commitment, energy and 300,000customers initiative allows us to create great Admiral Seguros, our Spanish insurance operation, achieved break-even on an underwriting year basis in fiercely value for our shareholders.
competitive market conditions ConTe, our Italian insurance operation, achieved growth and a further year of profitability Succession As was announced last May, Henry Engelhardt will step down as Group Chief Elephant Auto in the US achieved strong growth and is Executive in May 2016.
There is no way to measure adequately the contribution preparing to expand its operations into more states of a founder of a business that has grown from zero to now worth almost 5billion, employs over 8,000 people and serves more than 4million customers.
Our French motor insurance business, Lolivier assurance When we floated on the London Stock Exchange in 2004 it was under the auto, grew strongly by-line Admiral is Different and this has been something we have always tried to be, not different for the sake of being different, but different to create Rastreator and LeLynx, our price comparison businesses value for our shareholders.
in Spain and France are market leaders So what makes us different?
com to build acceptance That all employees of Admiral are shareholders.
as a successful distribution channel That we distribute each year all our profits over and above what we need Confused.
com continues to battle in a mature UK market tosupport and grow our business.
That we have the lowest combined ratio amongst our major UK competitors.
That we are the only company to have been in the Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For list every year for the last 15 years.
That all our growth, at home and overseas, has been organic with the Admiral culture strongly embedded wherever we operate.
And I could go on much longer.
In so many areas of difference the original thinking has stemmed from Henrys refusal to accept the status quo and the conventional, from his asking Why?
and from his recruitment of those who think like him and share the same values.
When any new employee joins Admirals UK operations Henry gives them apiece of a jigsaw a jigsaw is not complete until every piece is in place, no matter how small it may be: similarly, in Admiral every role has a contribution to make and is to be valued on the merits of the individual, not their status.
As Henry said at a recent Staff General Meeting in which over 5,000 staff in the UK take part each year, what will continue to make Admiral different is not what the Board will do but what you, you, you, and you will do.
On behalf of the Board and the entire Group I want to thank Henry for everything he has done over so many years and to say how delighted we all are that he will continue to work within the Group looking after our price comparison businesses around the world.
I said that Admirals original thinking in part stems from those Henry has recruited and who share the same values.
David Stevens, who takes over from Henry as Group CEO, was the second person Henry recruited to work alongside him to found Admiral.
For the last seven years David has led the UK business and has been instrumental, alongside Henry, in shaping Admirals course and the strong performance that has been achieved.
When asked about Alastair Lyons, CBE succession my reply has always been that I am extremely fortunate as Chairman ADMIRAL GROUP PLC Refer to the glossary for the definition of underwriting year basis.
