Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices Corporate governance Chairmans introduction I would like to thank John for all his hard is managed effectively across the work and the invaluable contribution he Group.
The promotion of a culture of risk made during his tenure.
awareness is integral to ensuring that our strategic objectives are delivered in the Following this period of change, I am right way.
The Board is very conscious of delighted that we have established its responsibility to set this tone from the a strong and well-functioning Board.
top consistent with running a prudent The Executive Directors manage the banking business.
business day-to-day, within the strategic direction of the Group shaped by the Ahead of our listing, the Remuneration challenge provided by the Non-Executive Committee spent a significant amount Directors.
Discussions are open and of time on developing a Directors constructive, and the Directors have a Remuneration Policy that both aligned healthy respect for each others views.
remuneration with the long-term strategy I meet regularly with the CEO which of the Group and changing regulatory Dear Shareholder provides an opportunity for ongoing requirements, and that balanced our On behalf of the Board, I am pleased dialogue about the business and efficient need to attract and retain the high-calibre to introduce our report on corporate running of the Board.
Information about individuals that can deliver our strategy governance.
We have taken into account Board meeting processes and how we with remuneration that is not excessive.
the main principles in the Code in relation spent our time in 2015 is set out on pages The Board strongly endorses these to Board leadership and effectiveness, 52 and 53. principles, which reflect our approach accountability, relations with shareholders to remuneration across the Group as The Board strongly supports the principle and remuneration.
of boardroom diversity, of which gender describe our corporate governance is one important aspect.
However, we do The Board is committed to maintaining arrangements in each of these areas not recommend including a measurable and developing further the high along with the work which the Board target for gender representation on standards of governance that we have and its Committees have undertaken.
All Board appointments already established, and this will be an Whilst we are required to make various are subject to a formal, rigorous and area of continued focus in 2016.
We will compliance statements we have tried transparent procedure and are made on hold our first AGM as a listed company to avoid describing these only in merit against a defined job specification on 17 May 2016.
I will be joined by all formal terms.
and criteria, and this was formalised into a my fellow Directors.
We look forward to The Board believes that a robust Diversity Policy which we adopted in 2015. meeting you on the day and answering governance framework is integral to the any questions you may have.
During the year we conducted an delivery of the Groups strategic and internal evaluation of the effectiveness financial objectives within its risk appetite.
of the Board and I am pleased to Strengthening our corporate governance report that overall the results were very arrangements was a key area of focus positive.
Further information about the prior to listing.
Our Committees have evaluation is set out on pages 56 and 57, played a critical role in supporting the Glyn Jones including agreed priorities which will be Board in implementing and embedding Chairman monitored over 2016 to further enhance the policies and processes that are effectiveness.
An update on progress commensurate with operating in a listed against these actions will be provided in and regulated banking environment, and the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
I have set out some key highlights later in this letter.
The Board recognises that an effective risk management culture and framework During 2014 the Board was enlarged is fundamental to the Groups ahead of the IPO and on 29 June 2015 we sustainability.
Therefore, in 2014 we welcomed Robert Sharpe to the Board.
decided to split the combined Audit Robert has significant retail banking and Risk Committee into separate experience, particularly in mortgages, Board Committees.
This has allowed the and has further broadened the collective Risk Committee to increase the focus experience on the Board.
As reported last on enhancing our Risk Management year, John Callender stepped down from Framework and ensuring that risk the Board on 27 February 2015, having served as an Independent Non-Executive Director since the Group was established.
Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45
