2 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to be writing my first statement as Chairman of Alliance Trust.
Alliance Trust is an important business with a long and proud history in Scotland and around the world.
I am looking forward to playing my part in delivering the changes that are necessary to return the Trust to the levels of performance upon which it has earned its reputation and success.
We believe that there is an appetite among shareholders for a global equity investment trust offering strong and consistent investment returns through a combination of capital growth and a growing dividend at a low cost.
We aim to deliver this for our shareholders through a focus on investment in those companies which demonstrate sound business models and strong management in order to generate returns over the longterm at an acceptable level of risk.
Our performance in 2015 demonstrates that we can do so: A Total Shareholder Return of 10.7% and a Net Asset Value Total Return for the Trust of 5.4%, compared to the 3.8% return of the MSCI All Country World Index in Sterling MSCI ACWI A year-end discount of 8.1%, compared to 12.4% a year earlier An increase in our total dividend to 12.43p, which represents a yield of 2.4% at 31 December 2015 and is the 49th consecutive year of dividend growth An Ongoing Charges Ratio of 0.59%, compared to 0.60% for 2014.
2015 was an eventful year for Alliance Trust and the extensive media commentary has perhaps overshadowed the positive developments during the year.
However the events around our AGM clearly demonstrated that our shareholders expected the Board to make changes.
After the 2015 AGM we undertook an extensive consultation exercise, listening to the views of our shareholders, and following our annual Board strategy review we announced a package of changes on 1 October intended to enhance shareholder value.
These were: Clarifying the investment mandate to improve performance, with a focus on global equities and the appointment of our subsidiary Alliance Trust Investments to manage the portfolio, against a target to outperform the benchmark A commitment to narrow the discount into single figures, supported by the use of share buybacks Clarifying our dividend policy, with the aim of maintaining our commitment to a progressive dividend and distributing all net income earned in the form of ordinary dividends Reducing costs, with a cost-reduction programme to deliver savings of 6m across the investment business during 2016 in order to target an Ongoing Charges Ratio of 0.45% by the end of 2016 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 3 Chairmans Statement Simplification of the structure, with a non-executive Board Board changes for the Trust and independent boards for our two subsidiary The Board at the start of 2016 is significantly different from investments, Alliance Trust Investments and Alliance Trust 12 months ago.
Anthony Brooke, Rory Macnamara, Chris Savings, to increase their accountability and focus.
Samuel and Karl Sternberg Senior Independent Director were Good progress has been made against all of these objectives appointed as non-executive directors during the year.
These which reflect the first steps in our aim of improving the Directors bring with them the skills and expertise we believe performance of the Trust.
will contribute to the success of the Company under our new structure and details of their skills and experience can be found We have not changed our investment objective to be a core on pages 22 and 23.
I welcome the contribution which all have investment for investors seeking increasing value over the long made to the strategic changes which we announced in October term and our investment policy allows us to invest in a wide and their subsequent implementation.
Gregor Stewart took on range of asset classes throughout the world.
When market the role of Deputy Chairman in February 2016 and will chair the conditions are favourable we can use gearing to increase equity Audit and Risk Committee after our AGM.
exposure, in order to enhance returns from the portfolio.
We believe that moderate structural gearing at a cost effective rate is A number of directors have left the Board since the last AGM.
beneficial for shareholders over the long term.
At the year end, My predecessor, Karin Forseke, and Alastair Kerr both left the with total assets of 3.4bn and net gearing of 13%, our equity Board at the year end, having overseen the transition to the portfolio represented 102% of net assets and in normal markets new governance arrangements.
I would like to thank them both we would expect our equity portfolio to represent at least 100% for their contribution during a period in which Alliance Trust has of NAV.
faced a number of challenges but has also made good progress in its long-term aims.
Alan Trotter, Chief Financial Officer, also The performance of our equity portfolio has continued to be left following the changes which we announced in October, strong following the change to the investment management team having played a key role throughout the review process for in 2014 and is already well ahead of the benchmark.
At the same which I am grateful.
I wish all three well for the future.
time we have reduced our non-equity investments, with our fixed income portfolio reduced to 73.3m and the sale of our remaining Susan Noble and Katherine Garrett-Cox left the Alliance Trust commercial property.
We initiated the sale of our mineral rights PLC Board in February 2016.
Susan became Chairman of portfolio prior to the year end.
Since then, oil prices have slumped, Alliance Trust Investments and I look forward to working with depressing the marketability of our holdings, and no satisfactory Susan in her new role.
Katherine Garrett-Cox will leave Alliance offers were received.
We will therefore continue to hold these Trust Investments on 11 March 2016.
Katherine has done much assets until we perceive a positive change in the market.
The over the past nine years to refocus the investment performance improved investment performance has had a positive impact on to its traditional strengths in global equities.
I, and the rest of our discount which narrowed to 8.1% at the year end.
We bought the Board, wish her every success in the future.
back 4.9% of the Companys shares in the period between the John Hylands will retire as a director at the 2016 AGM following announcement on 1 October and 31 December 2015, which also eight years as a director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
I helped the discount to narrow.
and my Board colleagues will miss his wise counsel and consistent We have completed the process of appointing Alliance support throughout his time as a member of the Board.
Trust Investments to manage the portfolio at an investment Finally, I am acutely aware of the lack of gender diversity on the management charge of 0.35% of NAV one of the lowest in current board as a result of the recent changes.
Alliance Trust has the investment trust sector.
We are comfortable that Alliance long been a leader in the area of board diversity, and this is an Trust Investments has the resources to provide us with the issue which I am determined to address at the earliest opportunity.
service we require from our asset manager.
We have established I report on wider corporate governance issues on page 24. a Management Engagement Committee, as recommended by the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, to oversee and review I am pleased with the progress to date on the initiatives the performance of the investment manager.
announced on 1 October and look forward to delivering further improvements in the coming years.
New independent boards have been appointed for Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments.
Alliance Trust I hope you find the rest of this report interesting and informative.
Investments has seen an increase in assets under management and, with the addition of the Trusts mandate, has a strong base for future growth and improved profitability in 2016.
Alliance Trust Savings, with its acquisition of the assets and business of Stocktrade and new technology platform, is positioned to deliver a profit in 2016.
We anticipate both of these investments Lord Smith of Kelvin will provide positive returns to the Trust in the future.
