Chairmans statement Emerging Markets offer strong long-term growth prospects Ashmores strategy is designed to capture the benefits of the Emerging Markets growth to deliver value for shareholders The Groups financial performance for the central bank credibility through inflation GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS period reflects the continued volatile market targeting, and consequently delivering The Groups corporate governance conditions and a consequently lower average superior GDP growth rates compared with activities include the following: AuM level compared with the prior year, the developed world.
The depth and breadth offset by higher performance fees, continued of investable asset classes have increased, In accordance with the UK Corporate discipline in managing operating costs, and notably in local currency markets, and Governance Code recommendations, the benefit of a stronger US dollar against improvements in credit quality have delivered an independent third-party undertook Sterling.
Adjusted EBITDA declined 9%, less a growing investment grade universe.
than the 12% reduction in average AuM, to Echoing the changes in its markets, Ashmore After joining the Board as a 176.7 million and profit before tax increased has developed considerably over the past Non-executive Director in October 6% to 181.3 million.
nine years, growing AuM from US$21.6 2014, David Bennett was appointed Reflectingthe increase in profits, the billion at the time of its IPO in October 2006 to the Audit and Risk Committee Groups strong and liquid balance sheet, and to US$58.9 billion: increasing its headline on 1 July 2015. the Boards confidence in future growth, the investment themes from four to eight: Michael Benson will retire from the Directors are recommending a final dividend broadening its geographic reach from three Board in October, and will be of 12.1 pence per share for the year ending offices in three countries to 12 offices in succeeded as Chairman by Peter 30 June 2015.
Subject to shareholders 10 countries, of which seven are emerging Gibbs, who joined the Board in April.
approval, the final dividend will be paid on countries: and increasing its employees from 4 December 2015 to those shareholders on 57 people to 285 today.
Profit before tax has MORE INFORMATION the register on 6 November 2015.
This makes risen from 103.9 million in FY2005 06 to A more detailed report on corporate a total dividend of 16.65 pence for the year, 181.3 million in FY2014 15, and the Group governance is providedon pages an increase of 1% compared with the prior has paid and proposed dividends over the 43 to 50. year 16.45 pence.
period totalling 124.7 pence per share, or 859 million.
The total shareholder return since the Groups IPO, with dividends industry.
Nick Land was appointed to the RECOMMENDED FINAL reinvested, is 178%, which compares Board at the same time as me, and I am DIVIDEND favourably with a total return of 64% from pleased that the Board will continue to the FTSE All Share over the same period.
benefit from his wisdom and experience as an independent Director during this period 12.1p per share As previously announced, a number of of transition.
2014: 12.0p per share changes to the Board have occurred during the year.
Following the conclusion of the I would like to thank Ashmores employees AGM in October 2014, Melda Donnelly for their dedication and hard work during the After nine years as Chairman I will retire from retired from the Board and David Bennett period of my tenure as Chairman, and I am the Board at the Annual General Meeting was appointed to the Board as an confident that I leave the Group facing a AGM in October.
It has been an immense independent Non-executive Director.
bright future for Emerging Markets, and in privilege to lead the Board through a period Charles Outhwaite stepped down from a strong position to continue to deliver value during which the Emerging Markets have the Board in May 2015 for personal reasons.
demonstrated remarkable resilience as the I am delighted that Peter Gibbs is to succeed developed world caused, and is still dealing Michael Benson me as Chairman, subject to his election by with the consequences of, a severe financial Chairman shareholders at the AGM.
Emerging nations have continued Ashmore Board in April and has a wealth of on a powerful convergence path, becoming 7 September 2015 experience gained through spending his wealthier in GDP per capita terms, electing entire career working in the financial services more accountable governments, increasing 12 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015
