Chairmans statement A milestone year for Aviva It has been an honour to serve you, our Aviva has made remarkable progress in the past shareholders, on the Board, first as Senior three years and has moved from turnaround Independent Director, and then, since April 2015, as your Chairman following John totransform and grow.
We are well onthe way McFarlanes move to Barclays.
I want to thank to successfully integrating Friends Lifeand are John particularly, as he made an immense focused on delivering to our customers the contribution to Aviva and its recovery, and to wish him well in his new role.
benefits of theTrue Customer Composite model 2015 saw the Group move into a new phase from turning round the business to transforming it.
In 2016 I am confident that we will see the true potential of the Group emerge ever more clearly.
Aviva has a clear strategy, strong values, a distinct advantage as a composite insurer, a developing reputation as a digital innovator, an outstanding management team, and an unequivocal mission to deliver much more for customers and shareholders alike.
Our people It is thanks to our people and their dedication, loyalty and hard work that weve been able to achieve the progress we have.
In the past three years theyve had to absorb many changes.
But they have faced the challenge professionally, recognised the rationale behind the direction we are taking and focused on seizing the opportunities that are opening up for the Group.
They live our values every day Care More: Kill Complexity: Never Rest: and Create Legacy and support us in building a highperformance and collaborative culture.
Its a measure of our people that they care, not just in the workplace but outside it too.
The Aviva Community Fund, which started in 2008, is now active in six of our global markets and supports inspirational local community projects, not only with grants but also with the hard work of committed volunteers from the staff.
Our customers As an insurer and asset manager we are entrusted with a tremendous responsibility by our 33 million customers.
We are pledged to help people save for the future and manage the risks of everyday life.
As we move progressively into the digital world, we will have more direct contact with the customer than in the more traditional, intermediated forms of business relationship.
To all our customers, particularly those digital customers, an essential prerequisite of their relationship with us, as their insurer and asset manager, is that they should feel safe in 02 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report our hands.
Everyone in the organisation knows I want to thank the entire Board for their that, and we all strive to be worthy of the trust significant contribution, commitment and our customers place in us.
service and I look forward to working with them during 2016 as we continue to guide the Our community Groups strategic transformation.
Aviva has become a leading contributor to the During the year, we have continued our role of business in society, speaking out on the focus on reviewing and improving our impact and costs associated with climate governance, conduct and risk management change, the creation of sustainable capital processes, with customers always central to markets and promoting responsible investment.
Further details are contained For example, in October 2015 Mark Wilson had in the directors and corporate governance the opportunity to address the United Nations report in the annual report and accounts.
HigHLigHTs General Assembly to call for the UN to agree a IFRS net asset value per share resolution on sustainable finance.
Performance and dividend Overall operational performance improved in Friends Life integration the year, despite having been impacted by a 389p Over 2015 we continued to perform strongly weaker euro exchange rate.
The acquisition of against all our targets.
The 6 billion acquisition Friends Life in April 2015 has had a significant 1 of Friends Life in April 2015 and the ongoing effect on most metrics.
IFRS profit before tax integration work since then have been especially Operating profit on an IFRS basis was up attributable to shareholders noteworthy features of the last year.
The 20% to 2,665 million, including a 554 million profits acquisition is in line with our contribution from Friends strategic direction, and Life and adverse foreign positions us well to capitalise exchange of 117 million.
1,390m onthe opportunities that Net asset value increased to exist in the UK.
389 pence per share and We continue to Total dividend The integration of Friends total shareholder return Life is progressing well.
will continue to be an area of The Board is proposing a on creating a legacy 20.80p focus in 2016. final dividend of 14.05 pence for the long term per share 2014: 12.25 pence Regulatory change per share, taking the full Total shareholder return We also continue to manage year dividend to 20.80 pence Sir Adrian Montague considerable regulatory per share 2014: 18.10 pence Chairman change, not least from the per share.
This is a 15% 10.4% new Solvency II SII regime increase and reflects the and the reforms to pensions Boards progressive dividend in the UK.
I am confident that the Board and policy and continuing confidence in the Groups the management team are wellequipped to medium-term growth prospects.
Our future Board composition and governance 2015 was a milestone year for Aviva.
In 2016 The membership of the Board changed during wewill continue to exercise the same drive the course of the year.
I was appointed anddetermination we have shown in the Chairman, taking over from John McFarlane, turnaround to achieve our strategic goals.
and Sir Malcolm Williamson and Andy Briggs joined the Board following the acquisition of Friends Life, with Sir Malcolm becoming Senior Independent Director.
Gay Huey Evans retired from the Board after serving diligently since October 2011 and we wish her well for the future.
In June 2015, Beln Romana Garca was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director and we will benefit from her wide experiences in insurance, financial services and European and global regulation.
And, since the year end, we have appointed Claudia Arney as an Independent Non-Executive Director, whose sir Adrian Montague CBE experience of the digital world will be of great Chairman value to the Board.
9 March 2016 1 For the avoidance of doubt, 2015 numbers include Friends Life from 10 April 2015, the acquisition completion date.
2014 numbers are Aviva stand-alone as previously reported i. e. do not include Friends Life.
Further details can be found on pages 58-61.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 03 Your Aviva Annas story We launched our new Meprovides the full who looks after herself, she You, Me, We package in spectrum of insurance to single also appreciates the healthy Poland in 2015.
Its tailored people with additional eating recipes we send her to meet different peoples benefits like pet care and even every week.
needs at different times in housekeeping.
And We is Anna thinks You, Me, their lives.
Its not just We shows that Aviva has We can offer this to insurance but offers things like thought about absolutely customers because were child care and tutoring and everything.
She describes aTrue Customer Composite.
even someone to call when herself as someone who smiles And we think it means simplicity youwant advice on caring for a lot.
We hope Aviva has made and convenience for our your baby.
her smile that much wider.
Anna loves our Me You is for young people package.
In addition to the and offers everything from life protection and accident cover, insurance to health benefits she knows her much-loved dog inthe event of injuries like will be cared for if she has to breaks, twists or sprains.
Assomeone Aviva has thought about absolutely everything 04 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Aviva has thought about absolutely everything Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 05
