The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement The Chairman of the Company, Richard Killingbeck, reports on the year to31 October 2015 Net asset value increase of 5.7% Revenue and Dividends Special dividends have continued to help our revenue account this Dividend increase of 6.8% year and this, alongside strong underlying dividend growth across the portfolio, has enabled the Board to recommend a final quarterly th 49 consecutive year of dividend increases dividend of 4.0p per share.
If approved by shareholders, this will result in a total dividend payment of 15.8p per share, an increase of Forecast increase in 2016 dividend of 6.8%.
This is a pleasing outcome and should be viewed against my atleast4.4% forecast last year of an increase of at least 4%.
Our earnings per share for the period were 17.22p.
20 year 50m strategic debt issue at Looking to the current year we have some conflicting signals for anannualised coupon rate of 3.68% underlying dividend growth.
On the positive is the stock selection approach which the Fund Manager has taken, which emphasises Performance companies that have the ability to grow their dividends over the medium I sounded a cautionary tone in my Outlook section last year regarding term.
On the negative is the potential wider global economic slowdown which has already dampened, and could further dampen, market dividend the prospects for stock markets making much progression against a growth expectations.
Despite this mixed backdrop the Board is confident backdrop of growing global macro-economic uncertainty.
Despite this in predicting dividend growth of at least 4.4% for 2016, representing a uncertainty I am pleased to able to report that our Fund Manager and his team, through a combination of judicious stock selection and asset minimum total dividend for the year of over 16.5p per share.
allocation, have been able to add significant value against virtually every local market index in which Bankers assets are invested the Long Term Debt only exception being the small asset allocation to emerging markets.
During the year the Board took the decision to increase structurally This is an excellent result for shareholders and reflects the disciplined the Companys fixed debt.
There were two key drivers of this.
Namely focus of the investment team in regard to stock selection and upon the historically low level of interest rates which Bankers could lock medium to longer term investment themes and trends.
into and the redemption next year of one of our existing debentures, the 10 million 10.5% issued at a time when interest rates and During the year we have continued to shift our allocation away from inflation were at significantly higher levels than today.
the domestic UK equity market and have consequently increased our overseas equity exposure, in particular towards North America and We were able to issue 20 year 3.68% 50m loan notes.
This deliberate policy shift will continue and I would expect the approximates to the market dividend yield today.
So, when we invest UK equity market exposure to settle at approximately 30% during the the monies into selected holdings shareholders should be able to forthcoming year.
Overseas markets offer Bankers an ability to gain benefit from all future dividend growth.
At the time of writing some of greater exposure to higher growth sectors and to global companies these funds have been invested but we remain patient in regard to within these sectors.
As these companies grow their earnings we investing the balance.
Once fully invested the maximum fixed gearing expect their dividend growth potential to be equal or greater than that of the Company would increase to 10%, a level with which your Board to be achieved from our UK equity portfolio.
Further detail as to remains comfortable.
individual market reports can be found later under the Fund Manager reports section.
5 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM this year will again be held at Trinity House, London, EC3N4DH on 25 February 2016 at 12 noon.
Full details of the business to be conducted at the meeting are set out in the Notice ofMeeting which has been sent to shareholders with this report.
Directions and a map showing the location of the AGM can also be found in the Notice of Meeting.
The Board looks forward to seeing many of you at this meeting at which Alex Crooke and his investment team will present their investment views and how these are reflected in the portfolio.
Following the formal business of the meeting light refreshments will be served.
Outlook As for the future, I remain cautious!
I continue to see headwinds across the globe from both a political and an economic perspective.
Some of these, such as low economic growth, disinflation and falling commodity prices have been with us for many months if not years and new ones will emerge in the year ahead such as the UKs membership of the EU.
But what I also continue to observe is that bytaking the medium to long term view on companies and major economies one can escape the noise and focus on building on thereturns that have been achieved by the current investment team and their predecessors.
These returns also reflect the power of compounding which should never be underestimated and this canbepowerfully demonstrated by our dividend growth record of 92% over the past ten years and our net asset value growth record of 73%.
Ithink you will agree these are impressive figures, especially when you compare them with the ten year return of the Retail Prices Index of 34% and the FTSE All-Share Index return of30%.
So looking ahead over the next year is actually really quite a short time span in the context of what our investment team are trying to achieve and, indeed, the context of the life of Bankers Investment Trust.
Markets will rise, and will fall, and they remain unpredictable which in turn has the ability to negatively impact investor sentiment.
However, as long as the underlying companies in which we invest aresound and improving, then we should remain optimistic for the long term.
AsI stated in my report last year and, as has been borne out this year, patience and careful stock selection will again be a key requisite for outperformance in the year ahead.
