com 14 Chairmans statement The board is pleased that Beazleys execution of its strategy continues to help us deliver strong shareholder value.
During 2015, the board has considered the feasibility of a movement in the location of the groups management from Ireland to the UK.
Having considered the options, the board will present a proposal to the shareholders at the companys AGM in March 2016 to effect such a change via the creation of a new UK domiciled holding company.
The board believes that this change will increase the operational efficiency of the group.
Beazley has a proven record of capital management.
We constantly identify the investments required to support profitable growth opportunities, but capital that is not thus deployed is returned to shareholders, subject to maintaining a prudent buffer.
Our total shareholder return, which cumulatively exceeds 397% over the past five years, reflects this approach.
Beazley maintains an underwriting portfolio that is diversified by Dennis Holt geography, product, size of risk, and the duration of the tail on Chairman the policies we underwrite.
We constantly refine and adjust this portfolio to optimise profitability.
For the past two years now we have curtailed our treaty reinsurance underwriting in the face of steeply falling premiums: net of reinsurance, this business accounted for less than 8% of our total premiums in 2015, Your company once again performed very down from over 10% in 2013.
Conversely, we have significantly strongly in 2015, generating a return on expanded our locally underwritten US business focusing mainly average shareholders equity of 19% 2014: 17% on mid-sized professional indemnity, management liability and property risks.
This accounted for 19% of our business in 2013 and growing premiums by 3% in a market and 26% two years later.
largely characterised by continuing competition and, for some insurers, anaemic or no growth.
In terms of geography, the US is our largest market, accounting for 58% of our total business, written both locally and in For the third year in a row, Beazley achieved a combined London.
This served us well in 2015 as the US economy ratio below 90%, recording 87% in 2015 2014: 89%.
The performed better than most other developed economies.
quality of the companys underwriting returns supported However, we see attractive growth opportunities in other markets, notably Singapore and, selectively, in Europe.
By the earnings per share of 48.8c 2014: 43.1c and net tangible nature of their business, two of our divisions marine and assets per share of 263.9c 2014: 247.0c.
political risks and contingency are extremely well diversified geographically, whereas our largest division specialty lines The board is pleased to announce a second interim has a stronger US focus.
dividend of 6.6p per ordinary share plus a special dividend of 18.4p per ordinary share.
Together with the first interim The relatively weak condition of the global economy and a glut dividend of 3.3p this takes the total dividends declared of capital for catastrophe exposed lines of insurance helped in respect of 2015 to 28.3p per ordinary share 2014: first prompt a series of mergers and acquisitions among insurers in interim dividend of 3.1p, second interim dividend of 6.2p 2015.
We see much of this consolidation as defensive in nature, plus a special dividend of 11.8p, totalling 21.1p.
reflecting the challenge of achieving growth.
Beazley is of course not immune to these challenges, but has demonstrated an ability to achieve acceptable growth with strong profitability in current market conditions.
As such, we remain confident in the continuing viability of our business model.
com Annual report 2015 15 A talent for innovation and the skills and resources to Rolf Tolle has informed the board that he will not be seeking commercialise promising innovations are key to our value reelection at the forthcoming AGM on 24 March 2016. proposition in the eyes of brokers.
New forms of cover offer He has served for more than five years on the board and brokers the opportunity to address the emerging risks that audit and risk committee as well as on the board and audit concern their clients, as well as making incremental sales and risk committees of our managing agency, Beazley Furlonge in a market where many brokers, like many carriers, have Limited.
Rolfs extensive knowledge of the insurance market found growth hard to achieve.
has been a great asset to the group and his contribution has been highly valued.
A number of the innovative products Beazley has developed entail partnering with service providers to implement a more In January 2016 we welcomed Catherine Woods to the board comprehensive solution to address clients needs.
This partly as a non-executive director.
Catherine served for nearly underlies the success of our data breach response product, 20 years in an executive capacity at JP Morgan and 17 years Beazley Breach Response BBR, which depends not only on in private, public and pro-bono non-executive director positions.
an insurance policy but leverages a network of relationships I am sure she will make a significant contribution to the board.
with specialist service providers to help clients respond effectively to a data breach.
These services are expertly Dividend policy and capital requirements coordinated by a dedicated business unit, BBR Services.
The boards strategy is to grow the dividend by between 5% and 10% per year and this has always been achieved.
In Operational excellence also remains a key focus, ranging from addition, our capital management strategy is to carry some underwriting discipline to high quality and efficient processing.
surplus capital to enable us to take advantage of growth In this, we place the clients needs to the fore in all we do.
opportunities that may arise: this is further supported by our fully undrawn banking facility.
We continue to manage our The role of the Beazley plc board is to approve and oversee capital actively and to the extent that we have surplus capital the strategy developed by the companys executive committee, outside of this range the board will consider means to return bringing a diverse range of perspectives and experience to bear this capital to shareholders, as demonstrated once more on our analysis.
Regulatory scrutiny of our industry is extensive.
through the announcement of a special dividend in 2015.
In areas such as conduct risk addressed by Andrew Horton in his statement on page 16 and in Beazleys adoption of the Outlook capital and other requirements prescribed under the European We expect the tough market conditions experienced in 2015, Unions Solvency II directive, the board is committed to the particularly in large risk markets, to continue in 2016.
There maintenance of the highest standards.
is today a strong consensus in our industry that it would take a catastrophe, or series of catastrophes, on a very large scale One of Beazleys longest serving employees retired during the to materially turn the market for short tail lines of business and year, with Jonathan Gray leaving in June.
Jonathan made an set rates on a sustained upward course.
The high aggregation immeasurable impact at Beazley, particularly in our property of coastal exposures in the US and other developed markets is division which he established in 1992.
The board is immensely one reason why such massive dislocations cannot be ruled out: grateful to Jonathan for his contribution to the company over another, sadly, is the growing threat of man-made catastrophes the past 23 years.
occurring either by accident or malevolent design.
The development of Beazleys US business in recent years has In this environment, insurers best defence is the speed of been a major focus of the boards attention and in this we have response they can muster to rapidly changing market conditions benefited greatly from the knowledge and insights of Ken Sroka, a talent that Beazleys underwriters have shown they who stepped down in December as a non-executive director possess.
It is against this readiness, as well as a consistent after almost five years on the board to take on a full time strategy that has proven its worth across market cycles, that executive role.
I am grateful to Ken for his many contributions Beazleys aspiration to become and be recognised as the to our work, including his participation on the remuneration highest performing specialist insurer should be judged.
Dennis Holt In March Padraic OConnor will also be stepping down from Chairman the board after seven years.
His wisdom and experience have been greatly valued by all of us, as has his work chairing both the remuneration committee and the board of our material 3 February 2016 subsidiary, Beazley Re.
