Strategic report Overview Chairmans statement Through this letter, I would like to check its power.
Finally, the country enjoys cover four important points: independent TV stations and newspapers, representing many points of views.
1. the current economic and political situation in Georgia is solid and its We will have the next Parliamentary outlook promising: elections in October 2016, which could 2. the strategy announced last year is either lead to a more pluralistic political more relevant than ever: situation or a reelection of the current 3. the role of corporate governance is a government.
It is difficult to predict the keystone of our way of doing business: outcome, but on the whole the country and has been moving in the right direction 4. talent management and incentives drive with a peaceful and democratic change our performance.
The new government Neil Janin favours competence over loyalty, and a Chairman I will elaborate on each of these messages reaffirmation of its pro-Western position below.
with the signing and implementation of an EU association agreement.
Finally, the I am proud to announce Politics and the economy assets of the country are being developed, Last year we witnessed a democratic, principally tourism and water.
This points that BGEO performed very peaceful change of government.
The to a promising path ahead, although well, reporting GEL 310.9 political situation in Georgia is still not necessarily a predictable one.
million in profit, which complicated, but a helpful way to look at it is across two levels: firstly, on a On the international front, relations demonstrates year over year domestic basis, and secondly, on an with Russia have improved and Russia growth of 29.1%.
This is international one, with a particular has been focusing on other fronts.
emphasis on its relationship with Russia.
The majority of the population, 70% to particularly impressive be precise, would not trade today for considering the challenges Let me start by going over a few facts yesterday.
Georgia will continue its quest we have faced in 2015, about the situation within the country.
for NATO membership, ensuring close The recent appointment of a strong cooperation but probably not accession.
including weak oil prime minister has brought about a prices, foreign exchange number of initiatives, including a fourMost promising for Georgia is the entry point plan to speed up economic of Iran into the community of nations.
Highlights include a reform of the the Iranian New Year in 2016, numerous complex political context.
education system, which aims to create tourists could be seen in Tbilisi.
One The Groups results are professional higher education systems can hope that investments might follow in line with the demands of the labour and that Georgia could become an presented in our CEOs market, tax code amendments aimed important trade partner to this nation.
letter and in various at further liberalizing tax and customs procedures, policies to speed up the In fact, Georgia could do extremely well.
implementation of infrastructure projects, The countrys success will be built on and governance reform to allow legal tourism, rich ecology and casinos.
It will entities to receive services based on a require a service infrastructure of hotels, single window principle, similarly to how banks and eventually hospitals.
It will also bring investment in transportation, individuals currently receive services pipelines, railroads, and ports to connect at public service halls in Georgia.
The industrial strategy of this country is right.
It is pragmatic In addition, governance of the country has and, if anything, it is too prudent.
Firstly, the judiciary system importantly, BGEO plays a crucial role has been reformed, and the courts in in it.
One could say that what is good Georgia are now independent.
Secondly, for Georgia is good for BGEO.
the President has created an institutionally distinct office for the Presidency, which Our new strategy is promising reinforces checks and balances.
Thirdly, Last year we adopted a two-pronged the Central Bank now has a respected new strategy.
Firstly, we would continue to governor with an IMF background and an make the Bank of Georgia a cost and independent board has been named to 6 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance Governance statements information create value, we will not hesitate to bet on innovation leader.
The Bank is our most We were able to float c. 35% of GHG it.
Similarly, if we cannot see potential, we precious asset and it continues to perform and raise US$ 100 million that we will hold back.
Unlike a private equity firm, well and deliver as you will read later in this will invest to grow GHG further.
we are under no pressure or obligation to report.
Secondly, we aim to buy assets in What we are doing in health care is a invest any of our reserves, and if we cannot Georgia cheaply, grow them, and sell them good illustration of the uniqueness of our find interesting opportunities, we will to investors at a higher price.
This way strategy, which has three components.
return the money to shareholders, either we will make money for our shareholders, Firstly, we can buy assets cheaper than through dividends or stock buybacks.
bring money in the local economy, others.
Assets in Georgia are small and provide foreign investors with an and owned by individuals who need a lot of Corporate governance and talent opportunity to own high-yielding assets.
hand-holding in Georgian - something that development foreign buyers have neither the ability nor The Board plays an important role in Let me start with the Bank.
We appointed the time to do.
We may have bought more our companies.
The BGEO board is a new CEO for Bank of Georgia, Murtaz than 40 hospitals, but they were bought composed of an array of highly competent Kikoria, and promoted Irakli Gilauri to one by one, often from local doctors who individuals with complementary skill sets Chairman of the Bank.
We wanted to have made their own decisions, and would needed to run our businesses.
The board one person concentrate on minding the not just sell to anyone with money.
works collectively with management to day to day affairs of the Bank, allowing set the strategy and review operations.
Irakli Gilauri to focus on our new ventures.
Secondly, we provided our health care In fact, we set aside days every year to Murtaz is the orchestra conductor we subsidiary with very capable managers, review asset allocation and investments.
need to lead and support the very strong starting with its CEO Nikoloz Gamkrelidze.
We encourage dialogue and discussion cast of top executives of the Bank.
With Nick is a good example of a manager before taking any decision.
the support of Irakli Gilauri, his mission is who developed his skills over the course to make sure that the Bank continues to of his career at the Bank of Georgia.
We Additionally, each member is encouraged perform and transform itself.
The Banks grow this talent within the Bank, as it is to interact with management members as agenda is full.
In the retail bank, we are difficult to find local managers capable advisors.
The nature of contribution varies, preparing to change the approach of our of executing sophisticated strategies.
from providing expertise and judgement to main branches from a product to a client Otherwise, we sometimes attract Georgian coaching and development.
This means that we will focus on talent from Europe or the US.
These introduce them to you: Hanna Loikkanen client needs in order to propose suitable people will only return if they are offered a is very experienced investor in Russia products, rather than push products to sizeable challenge, a promise of personal and the CJS.
She brings her wisdom all clients in an indiscriminate manner.
development, attractive incentives, and an and judgment as an investment manager It involves a major cultural change and overall feeling that they are contributing to the well-being of the country.
Small, family to evaluating our investments.
David a transformation of our processes, the owned companies cannot do that, nor can Morrison, the Boards vice chairman, is configuration of our branches and most foreign investors.
We are putting a special our guardian.
He is aware of our fiduciary importantly the mindset of our employees.
emphasis on talent in this annual report.
responsibilities and regulatory obligations, We have also decided to merge the making sure we do the right things the areas of corporate banking, investment Thirdly, we have implemented world class right way.
His long tenure at Sullivan and banking, and wealth management.
We governance systems including a robust Cromwell in New York, Paris and Frankfurt are well regarded in this domain, and have Board.
If you look at the Board of GHG, serves him well in this regard.
Al Breach is accumulated a wealth of knowledge and you will see a mixture of members who an outstanding macro-economic investor.
capital markets capabilities in the Georgian have experience in Georgia, as well as new His point of view is invaluable in making and neighbouring markets during the independent members chosen for their funding decisions and advising the Bank past several years through our corporate competence and judgment.
In this specific on its asset and liability management.
advisory, research and brokerage case: insurance, medicine, medical Kaha Kiknavelidze is also a macro investor practices united under Galt & Taggart.
Galt supply, and hospital management.
We who, as a Georgian, gives us an insight & Taggart research aims to help decision intend to replicate this set up in all areas into the local economy which we would makers policymakers, International that we are committed to developing.
Tamaz Georgadze is financial institutions, businesses and the second Georgian on our Board with a foreign investors appreciate the GHG is not our only investment.
Irakli specialty in digital and retail banking.
He opportunities of investing in Georgia and Gilauri will give you a short description of heads his own very successful FinTech the South Caucasus.
In this context, our our portfolio investments, which include company based in Berlin, and was one wealth management investment banking real estate, utilities, power generation, and of the foremost retail banking experts business has plenty of room to grow.
We look at our portfolio at McKinsey.
Kim Bradley is our real of investments as trees in a forest: some estate guru, with 25 years experience Our 2015 highlight was the successful are mature and solid, others are promising behind him in multiple markets.
One of IPO of Georgia Healthcare Group 2 saplings.
When we see an opportunity to the contributions he made to m PLC on the London Stock Exchange.
our Annual Report 2015 BGEO Group PLC 7 Strategic report Overview Chairmans statement continued for executives to finesse the system real estate subsidiary, was helping them I feel very fortunate and proud to be part and play the short term.
Above all, no build their risk management system and of the remarkable journey of this institution cash, just stock vesting in five years.
Last but not and this country.
I am proud of the work It is not an appropriate incentive least, Bozidar Djelic, with an extensive accomplished by CEO Irakli Gilauri and his system for every company.
For ours, experience in government, as a banker, entire management team.
I am touched a young growing company, it works and as advisor to a number of countries, by their desire to not only build a great and keeps everyones mind focused helps us with government relations, capital company, but also do well for the country.
on making money for shareholders.
markets, and provides the group with a rich Finally, I am grateful for the investors Beyond top management, we are perspective and judgment in this region.
who trust them with their money.
I think committed to building a culture where they too can be proud and take comfort personal growth and development are My job is to manage the Board, ensure in the returns on their investment.
We are making a point to that we have the right people on the show you our top 100 executives in this board and in leadership positions in report.
We have made changes to our the key areas of the Bank, and facilitate Neil Janin human resources management and and frame discussions on all areas, but Chairman we intend to reinforce our capacity to especially on strategy and execution.
7 March 2016 It is worth mentioning that the board attract, develop and promote talent in meets without the CEO at every board all areas of the group.
We have named meeting and that we run regular third one of our most creative executives as party evaluations of our effectiveness and head of HR, with a precise mandate.
continue to rank very highly.
We still lack the diversity that we would like to see, but Regarding succession, the Board has a we are working on it.
We had promised to definite plan of what we would do in the onboard two women, but have only invited case that our current CEO is no longer one so far.
He has been key to our success.
However, we are building the Finally, the Board of course fulfils its bench behind Irakli Gilauri by promoting fiduciary duties.
We have meaningful more people to positions that cover duties discussions in the committees, as he was doing directly.
We cannot replace you will see in the reports of the Irakli Gilauri, but we can build talent around Chairmen of each committee below.
him and introduce a way of doing business that will become BGEOs trademark and Succession planning and Talent culture.
Irakli is keen to see that happen management and is showing the way to all his team.
This is a young company and the top managers of the organization are the I hope this letter has helped inform our ones who built it.
The Board is aware and shareholders of the current situation of concerned by the necessity of preparing BGEO and its promising outlook.
While the a new generation of leaders for the long strategy and future of group is solid and term.
It is our highest priority today.
We the political context promising, investing have encouraged the bank to change the in operations in countries such as Georgia scope of its human resources strategy can still feel daunting.
Therefore as a final and to develop a pipeline of leaders at point, I wanted to highlight our liquidity an early stage.
Promising employees situation which will allow us to weather should be tracked and developed by whatever storm may come in our path and giving them appropriate opportunities and enable us to achieve long term success.
timely leadership and technical training.
Irakli Gilauri elaborates on this below.
For those already at the top, the incentive At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the system is as follows: our partners, 15 in Board intends to recommend an annual total, take home the minimum they need dividend of GEL 2.4 per share payable to live well, with the rest being stock in British Pound Sterling at the prevailing vesting in five years.
This is in the range of our payout shareholders rich in the long term, ratio target of 25-40% and represents a they too will be rich.
There are no ways 14% increase over the 2014 dividend.
8 BGEO Group PLC Annual Report 2015
