Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder, This has been another year of solid achievement, once again demonstrating the strength of the business.
We continually strive to be a more efficient client focused business that is responsive to a changing market and client needs.
Overview Over the past two and a half years, management have successfully taken steps to strengthen and enable the Group to drive sustainable growth and to focus on creating value for shareholders.
The Board views wealth management as an attractive part of the financial services sector.
The sector continues to change in response to a variety of pressures, including consumer preferences, regulation, pricing and technology and it is therefore important that the business is capable of adapting to changing circumstances.
The Board believes that, with a network of expert Investment Managers and Financial Planners, the Group is well positioned to prosper in the current emerging environment.
Progress The Group has had a good year.
Its performance and its resilience mean that it is well equipped to operate in the dynamic Biographies of each Director are regulatory and competitive environment.
Against a backdrop of market volatility and industry change, I believe that David shown on pages 46 and 47 Nicol and his team have made good progress in equipping the business for future growth.
This work is now substantially complete and the growth of the business is an important objective for the current year.
Brewin Dolphin has many talented people working within the organisation and ensuring that we have the right skills and talent will be a critical part of this process.
Our strategy is to focus on the core business of discretionary Dividend history: wealth management.
To this end the Groups stake in Euroclearplc, the largest settlement system for securities pence per share 12.00p transactions, was sold for 10.2 million during the year, and 8.25p the sale of Stocktrade, the Groups Execution Only division, 9.90p to Alliance Trust Savings Limited for 14.0 million, has been 6.25p 8.60p announced.
It is expected that the sale of Stocktrade will 5.05p complete in 2016.
7.15p 3.60p 3.75p 3.65p 3.55p 3.55p 2012 2013 2014 2015 04 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Shareholders The Board has the right balance of skills and experience to We aim to maintain an effective and regular dialogue with our set the tone of the business and to challenge and support the shareholders.
The views of our shareholders are welcome and Executive management team.
help shape our decision making.
Kath Cates joined the Board in December 2014.
She has The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.25p per share, to brought with her a wealth of experience in risk and operational be paid on 11 March 2016 to shareholders on the register on matters and has recently become the Chairman of the Board 19 February 2016.
As a Board we aim to pay out between 60% Risk Committee replacing Angela Knight, who has performed the and 80% of earnings and this year the figure amounts to 70%, task with dedication and skill in the past three years.
an increase on the 62% we paid last year.
This will bring the total dividend for the period to 12.0p per share 2014: 9.9p, In addition to their principal role as an independent Director, each demonstrating confidence in the Groups growth prospects Non-Executive Director has a specific role within the Group.
Angela Knight is the Senior Independent Director, Ian Dewar is Chairman of the Audit Committee, Paul Wilson is Chairman of This years AGM will be held at 11.30am on 5 February 2016 at the Remuneration Committee, and Kath Cates is Chairman of the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
Caroline Taylor is the Chairman of If you are unable to attend and wish to raise an issue, please do the new Corporate Responsibility Committee, which although write to me and I will ensure you receive a timely answer.
not a committee of the Board, is of increasing importance.
Their respective roles provide them and the Board with added insight into the workings of the business.
The Committees they serve on undertake considerable work and are integral to the Simon Miller smooth running of the business.
Chairman 1 December 2015 Our people Our success lies in the hands of around 1,900 individuals who work at Brewin Dolphin.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them all for their hard work and commitment over the course of what has been a demanding year.
The Board is conscious that these people are the Groups greatest asset and it must ensure that it focuses on retaining and developing a deep pool of diversified talent.
Our employees and our offices have long had a commitment to charitable activities.
Being responsible and doing the right thing is an integral part of the Brewin Dolphin culture.
In this context, during the course of the last 12 months, we have relaunched our corporate responsibility programme with the objective of building on the existing practices and further embedding them across the Group.
05 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 06 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT In this section 08 Business Overview 10 Business Model 12 Market Environment 14 Our Strategy 16 Chief Executives Statement 20 Measuring Our Performance 23 Results 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 34 Corporate Responsibility 40 Resources and Relationships 07 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
