06 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This report covers the period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.
As in previous years, we have elected to include the Chairmans Statement within the Strategic Report in order to minimise duplication.
In addition, we have announced two initiatives since the Companys year-end, which I shall report on first.
Investment Manager Joe Bauernfreund became the portfolio manager of British Empire Trust BTEM with effect from 1 October 2015, continuing the natural progression that has seen only three portfolio managers in the last 30 years.
Joe joined BTEMs Investment Manager, Asset Value Investors AVI, in 2002 and has been an influential member of the investment team assisting the previous portfolio manager, John Pennink.
Over the past two years, Joe has taken on increasing responsibility for the portfolio composition as co-manager alongside John.
Joes experience Strone Macpherson and expertise have demonstrated his ability to manage the investment Chairman strategy.
The Directors and John have together decided that it is now appropriate that Joe should become the sole portfolio manager.
Joe has succeeded John as Chief Investment Officer at AVI.
John, who was the portfolio manager from 2003 to September 2015, will remain as CEO and Chairman of AVI.
The Board would like to thank John for his impressive contribution of a compounded total 1 return of 10.2% per annum to BTEMs investment portfolio.
The Board is confident that Joe has the skills needed to navigate BTEMs investment portfolio successfully through the volatile and challenging equity markets that we face today.
We see his appointment as a natural succession and are confident in his ability, supported by the team at AVI, to produce strong investment returns over the long term.
Joe will continue to utilise a bottom up, high conviction approach in the management of the fund, with stock selection driven by long-term company fundamentals.
He will continue to invest in companies that are undervalued and characterised by low investor expectations with the belief that, over the long term, the market will recognise their fair value.
John will continue to be involved in the investment process and his experience will be available to Joe in the future.
Strategic Partnership for AVI The second development is that AVI has entered into a strategic partnership with Goodhart Partners LLP for further information see www.
They will acquire a minority stake in AVI subject to regulatory approval and will provide resources to support its growth.
Goodhart is a private investment management organisation which has partnerships with a number of specialist investment management businesses.
Goodhart has explored in detail the drivers of the past investment performance of AVI, compared it with other value-oriented managers and fully endorses AVIs investment strategy and process.
We regard this as a very positive step in the further development of AVI.
1 Source: Morningstar, 30 September 2002 to 30 September 2015 07 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Investment Performance Rolling five year relative performance of value vs growth Over the accounting year, your Companys NAV total return per MSCI World Value vs MSCI World Growth % share declined by 8.3%, compared with 5.6% for the benchmark 8% index.
This overall return shows a steady rise in NAV in the first half of the accounting year and then a steeper decline in the second half.
6% Performance suffered in the second half of the year amid the general market sell-off, with exposure to energy-related assets and the 4% strength of the Pound reducing returns further.
2% The Board recognises that value investing has been underperforming growth for probably the longest period on record, with the quantum of 0% such underperformance not having been seen since the dotcom bubble 1981 1984 1990 1993 1996 2002 2005 2008 of the late 1990s.
This created a significant headwind for returns.
-2% 1987 2014 1999 In the light of this, your Board has continued to review and analyse -4% 2011 AVI's investment performance and it is evident that BTEM has outperformed the MSCI World ex-US Value Index since the Ratio of BTEM against MSCI All Country World ex-US Value financial crisis.
In summary, this analysis, which is supported by Goodhart, shows: 280 AVIs specialist investment strategy seeks to exploit specific 250 opportunities and inefficiencies in markets.
220 AVI does not inhabit the middle ground occupied by benchmark 190 constrained managers.
AVI has a disciplined and intuitively sensible investment process.
160 The investment team are experts at investing in a proprietary 130 universe of stocks that is neglected by other investors but fundamentally attractive.
100 AVIs process and investment universe leads to a portfolio that is 70 difficult to compare effectively with easily available benchmarks.
Dec 97 Dec 99 Dec 01 Dec 03 Dec 05 Dec 07 Dec 09 Dec 11 Dec 13 Sep 15 This makes assessment of performance challenging over shorter periods, underlining the need for clear and transparent communication of the strategy and its results.
The investment process has been proven over an unusually long period.
In recent years, there have been a number of headwinds to performance.
AVIs investment style has been out of favour and macro factors have had a disproportionately negative impact on returns relative to global benchmark indices.
Investors have become overly focused on macro themes over recent years and this has been to the detriment of managers focusing on securities from the bottom up.
Investment style factors have been shown to move in cycles and the recent headwind will turn to a tailwind eventually.
In the meantime, the valuation of the portfolio is attractive.
Over the three years to the end of September 2015, BTEM lagged its official benchmark, which can be largely explained by the high level of cash in 2013.
08 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Having reviewed AVIs approach and, while taking full account Underlying revenue earnings per share have improved to 11.75 pence of recent investment performance, your Board believes AVI has the per share, compared with last years 9.29 pence.
The Board is ability to generate attractive returns for investors over the long term, therefore proposing an increased final dividend of 9.7 pence per whilst continuing to offer effective diversification compared with other share, making the total ordinary dividends for the year 11.7 pence, equity strategies.
an increase of 11.4% in the total dividend compared with the last accounting year.
Between the year end and 31 October 2015, the Companys net asset value increased by 5.0%, compared with a return of 5.4% by Discount the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, both on a total return basis.
Over the accounting year the net asset value has again been volatile.
We have continued our share buyback programme with the aim Long-Term Borrowings of limiting volatility in the discount.
During the year under review, The Company has, from time to time, held large liquidity positions but 9,331,661 shares were bought back at an average discount of 11.0%.
recently BTEM has been more fully invested.
In light of current interest Buying back shares at a discount resulted in the NAV per share being rates, which are low by historical standards, the Board is assessing enhanced for continuing shareholders by 0.77%.
The discount at the the merits of some further long-term borrowing.
year end stood at 11.6% compared to 10.3% at the prior year end.
Simplification of Company Name Board As part of the Boards continuing review of the wider perception Once again this year, and in line with accepted best practice, each of the Company, the Directors have concluded that the Companys of the Directors is subject to re-election.
From 5 November 2015, the Companys name has been shortened from British Empire Securities and General Your Board carries out an annual review of its effectiveness.
This year, Trust plc to British Empire Trust plc.
A change of name is permitted having employed an external expert last year, the review was carried by the Companys Articles of Association and does not require a out using the Boards own internal resources.
The review concluded shareholder vote.
The Directors believe that the new name is simpler, that the Directors qualifications, effectiveness, performance and while recognising the Companys long heritage.
contribution to the Board are of a high standard.
All of the Directors are therefore offering themselves for re-election.
Income and Dividend Your Company is managed with a target of producing superior capital Annual General Meeting growth and your Board believes that it would be inappropriate to set I look forward to seeing shareholders at our AGM, which this year will any income requirement for the Investment Manager which could be held at 10.30am at 11 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0AN.
compromise their ability to deliver this primary objective.
At the half-year stage, I noted in my Chairmans Statement that revenues generally continue to be lower than they were, particularly in the years ended September 2012 and 2013.
However, earnings per share were somewhat higher than expected six months ago.
09 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 02 17 Investment Review 18 31 Governance 32 45 Financial Statements 46 76 Shareholder Information 77 82 Outlook As a Board, we are delighted with the appointment of Joe Bauernfreund For more information visit: www.
co. uk as named manager of the British Empire Trust portfolio, and with the prospect of the proposed partnership of Asset Value Investors with Goodhart Partners.
The forecasts for the global economy are certainly no clearer than when we last reported to you.
Arguably, the most recent trends show weakness in activity in many countries, and the possibility of a period of deflation in Europe and the US remains a threat, as does the slow-down in China.
In this difficult and volatile environment your Board strongly believes in careful stock picking and looking for and finding value.
This is the core skill of Asset Value Investors, which has been proven over many years.
The Board believes that shareholders will be rewarded when growth stocks become less fashionable and investor interest in, and appetite for, good value returns.
The Strategic Report has been approved and signed on the Board's behalf.
