Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonias directors The Remuneration Committee ensures remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015. that remuneration arrangements Last year, the Remuneration Committee completed a strategic review of Caledonias executive remuneration framework and engaged with its support the strategic aims of the larger shareholders and investor representative bodies on the key business and enable the recruitment, changes.
The revised framework was set out in the remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
motivation and retention of senior No changes to this policy are proposed at this years annual general meeting and the key elements of the policy have been included in this executives, of the calibre needed years directors remuneration report for ease of reference.
to manage and grow the company In this introductory statement, I have set out a summary of the implementation of the remuneration policy in respect of the year ended successfully.
31 March 2015 and how we intend to approach remuneration for the 2016 financial year.
Detailed disclosure and explanations of the remuneration paid to directors in the year ended 31 March 2015 are included in the annual report on directors remuneration, which will be put to an advisory vote of shareholders at the annual general meeting on 16 July 2015.
Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2015 Turning to the year under review, as described in the Chairmans and Membership and attendance Chief Executives report, Caledonia has delivered a net asset value per The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration Committee share total return NAVTR of 14.2%, continuing the strong returns during the year was as follows: achieved over the previous two years and extending Caledonias record Meetings of outperformance against the Retail Prices Index RPI over one, three Meetings eligible and five years and the FTSE All-Share Total Return index FTSE index attended to attend over ten years.
The Funds pool, led by Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, was a C H Gregson Chairman 6 6 1 significant contributor to this years performance, delivering a total return D C Stewart 1 1 of 45.2% compared with its target of 12.5%.
Taking these results into R B Woods 4 6 2 account and after assessing the performance of the individual directors C M Allen-Jones 5 5 against the personal objectives set for them at the start of the year and, 1.
Mr Stewart was appointed a member of the committee on 17 March 2015. where relevant, pool performance and objectives, the Remuneration 2.
Mr Allen-Jones retired as a member of the committee on 17 March 2015.
Committee decided that it was appropriate to award the maximum potential bonus of 100% of basic salary to each of the executive directors.
The year to 31 March 2015 also represented the end of the three year performance measurement period for awards granted in 2012 under the companys performance share scheme.
For these awards, the The Companies Act 2006 requires the companys auditor to report performance targets were that, for two-thirds of the shares comprised in to the shareholders on certain parts of the directors remuneration an award, Caledonias NAVTR had to outperform the FTSE index and, for report and to state whether, in its opinion, those parts of the report the other third, the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all-stocks Total have been properly prepared in accordance with the Large and Return index Gilts index over the three year measurement period, in Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports each case with shares vesting on a graduated basis between 0.5% and 3.5% outperformance.
Both of these targets were comfortably met, with Amendment Regulations 2013.
The parts of the annual report on Caledonias NAVTR outperforming the FTSE index by 17.2% and the Gilts directors remuneration that have been audited are indicated in that index by 29.9% over the three year period.
The annual statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration have vested in full.
Committee and the policy on directors remuneration are not subject to audit.
No deferred bonus plan awards were granted in 2012.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 39 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Performance measures for long term incentive awards Malus and clawback Following a further consultation with shareholders and investor Last year, provisions were introduced into Caledonias performance representative bodies, in November 2014 the Remuneration Committee share scheme and deferred bonus plan which give the Remuneration adopted new performance measures for the performance share scheme Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested awards in the event and deferred bonus plan matching shares which are based on the of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, a annualised absolute returns achieved by Caledonia over three and five miscalculation of a participants entitlement, misconduct on the part year periods, in order to align the measures more closely with the of the participant or an event resulting in material loss or reputational companys long term objective of achieving absolute returns over rolling damage to the company or a member of the group.
These are known ten year periods of between RPI 3% and RPI 6%.
For investment as malus provisions.
executives, including Mr Cayzer-Colvin, a substantial proportion of the In September 2014, a revised UK Corporate Governance Code Code awards will be geared towards the total returns achieved by the pools was issued which included a provision that all performance related of capital for which they are responsible.
Further details of these new incentive schemes for executive directors operated by UK listed performance measures and how they will operate for executive directors companies should include not only malus provisions, but also are set out in the summary of performance measures and targets in the arrangements to recover amounts of variable remuneration after it has notes to the remuneration policy table on pages 43 and 44. been paid known as clawback.
The Code is not specific as to the period Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2016 of time over which clawback should operate or the circumstances in Looking ahead to the 2016 financial year, basic salaries of executive which it should be applied and the Remuneration Committee has been directors have been increased with effect from 1 April 2015 by 1.0%, advised that, since only malus provisions were included in the current broadly in line with inflation, which was the same as the standard increase remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, it would be given to the companys senior executives, although other grades of staff necessary to seek formal shareholder approval to amend the policy received a higher increase of 3.0%.
The Chairmans and the non-executive should clawback provisions be introduced.
As a consequence, the directors fees are reviewed on a triennial basis and, since these were last Remuneration Committee has decided to see how market practice in increased in April 2014, they have not been changed.
relation to clawback develops before making a decision as to whether to introduce it to Caledonias performance related incentive schemes and, if We plan to make performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan it decides to do so, whether to seek an amendment of the remuneration awards following the release of our 2015 full year results announcement policy before it would next ordinarily be proposed for shareholder in line with our normal grant cycle.
These will be subject to the approval at the annual general meeting in 2017. performance measures adopted in November 2014, as outlined above.
The company performance related element of the annual bonus scheme is determined by reference to the relative performance of the companys Charles Gregson NAVTR to RPI over the year, with a 10% pay-out if NAVTR matches RPI, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee rising to a 100% pay-out if outperformance of 7% or more is achieved.
27 May 2015 In view of the current low level of RPI, the Remuneration Committee has decided that, for bonus awards for the 2016 and subsequent financial years, the RPI comparator should be 3%, which is broadly in line with the historic long term average, or actual RPI if higher.
40 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc
