The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement Net Asset Value Total Return City of Londons net asset value total return was 6.4% which was 0.2% ahead of the size weighted average for the AIC UK Equity Income sector, 3.8% ahead of the FTSE All-Share Index and 0.6% behind the UK Equity Income OEIC sector average.
City of Londons portfolio remains predominantly invested in large capitalisation FTSE 100 companies which yield around 1% more than the average for medium-sized and small companies.
During the year we did reduce our weighting in the large capitalisation stocks from 69% to 66% but some of our competitors produced superior capital gains due to their greater exposure to medium-sized and small companies.
The Chairman of the Company, Philip Remnant, reports on Relative to the FTSE All-Share Index, City of London benefited from the year to 30 June 2015 being significantly underrepresented in the oil and mining sectors.
The best three stocks held in the portfolio which contributed to performance were all housebuilders: Taylor Wimpey, Persimmon and Berkeley Group.
This year has been one of steady progress.
City of London produced anet asset value total return of 6.4% for the year to 30 June 2015.
The two large Real Estate Investment Trust holdings in the portfolio, Thisfollows on from returns of 14.7% and 23.8% for the two previous Land Securities and British Land, were also significant contributors.
Our performance was marginally better than the Overall, stock selection contributed 4.08% to performance.
Given average for the AIC UK Equity Income sector, a little behind the relatively flat markets, gearing was held in a range of 5.7% to 9.4% average for the UK Equity Income OEIC sector but significantly ahead over the twelve months and contributed marginally to performance.
of the FTSE All-Share Index which returned only 2.6%.
The dividend th was increased for the 49 consecutive year, by 3.7%.
Active Share Over the last year active share, which measures how much a portfolios The Markets holdings differ from its benchmark constituents, has received some attention.
The theory is that it is necessary to have a high active share UK and US economic growth continued over the year and the outlook to achieve meaningful outperformance.
There has been ensuing for the Eurozone improved with the European Central Bank starting its criticism of some investment vehicles which have low active shares, programme of quantitative easing.
The fall in the oil price had a follow the benchmark in a passive fashion and yet charge high fees beneficial impact on consumers disposable income in oil importing more normally associated with actively managed funds.
countries and helped reduce inflation to a very low level.
After the sharp gains of the previous two years when share prices rose faster than This is not an accusation that can be validly levelled against City of profits growth, equity markets moved sideways over the twelve month London.
Although the Companys active share relative to the FTSE period.
The FTSE 100Index of large companies was held back by the All-Share Index is considered by some to be low, it has still achieved poor share price performance of oil and mining companies and returned significant outperformance.
Over five years, City of London has only 0.2%, while the more domestically focussed FTSE Mid 250 Index outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 33.5% and our ongoing of medium-sized companies returned 14.5%.
charges have been further reduced to 0.42%, which remain the lowest in the AIC UK Equity Income sector.
Performance In my view, active share is a potentially misleading metric, particularly Earnings and Dividends if used in isolation and without taking a more informed view of the Earnings per share rose by 9.8% to 16.84p, partly reflecting the risk profile of a fund.
Other measures such as information ratios are underlying dividend growth from investments held but also the rise often more insightful as they seek to assess risk-adjusted returns.
inthe USdollar compared with sterling, enhancing the sterling value Over the last five years, the Companys information ratio is the ofdividend payments from those UK companies which declare their second best in the AIC UK Equity Income sector in terms of the dividends in US dollars.
In addition, special dividends rose from returns achieved relative to the degree of risk taken in achieving 1.29million last year to 4.21 million.
City of London increased its own dividend by 3.7% over the previous year and added 3.83 million to revenue reserves.
This is the third successive Share Issues year where we have raised the dividend ahead of the rate of inflation and There was again strong appetite during the year for the Companys yet increased revenue reserves to underpin future dividends.
22.9 million shares were issued at a premium to net asset value, reserves per share now stand at 12.5p, an increase of 6.9% over last for proceeds of 86.9 million, enhancing net asset value by 0.13%.
year despite continued share issuance by the Company.
Inthe past five years, City of London has issued 99.1 million new shares which has increased its share capital by 47.5%.
th This is the 49 consecutive year of unbroken dividend growth, a recordunrivalled by any other investment trust.
City of Londons shares continue to trade consistently at a premium to net asset value, despite the sector generally moving to a discount during The quarterly dividend will next be considered by the Board when the the year.
It was particularly encouraging to see that in the months third interim is declared in April 2016.
5 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued In the short term, equities may produce lower returns than they have leading up to the general election, a period of uncertainty when demand for the Companys shares was uncharacteristically muted, City of done on average over the last three years, and be more volatile, as Londons rating stood up well and indeed improved relative to its peers.
they have been since the end of June.
Yet they are still attractive relative to the alternatives in fixed interest and bank deposits, both interms of yield and capital appreciation.
I am confident that City of The Board Londons strategy, which is focussed on providing long term growth On 1 September 2015, we appointed Samantha Wren to the Board.
inincome and capital, will continue to enhance shareholder value She brings to the Board valuable experience from her background in overthe longer term.
finance, operations and business risk and control.
She is currently chief operating officer of the global broking division of ICAP plc, where she Philip Remnant CBE has held several senior finance roles, including group treasurer.
Chairman We take the appointment of directors, and governance generally, veryseriously.
We employed a specialist external search firm to findSam.
Each year, we assess the composition of the Board and its performance, including that of individual directors.
Every three years we conduct an external review and the next one is due to be carried out during the forthcoming year.
In accordance with best practice, all directors stand for annual reelection.
I refer you to the directors biographies on page 16 for further details of their background and expertise.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the office of Henderson Global Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE on Friday 23October 2015 at 2:30pm.
I would encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend for the opportunity to meet the Board and to watch a presentation from Job Curtis, our Fund Manager.
For the first time, the Companys AGM will be broadcast live on the internet.
If you are unable to attend in person, you can watch the meeting as it happens by visiting www.
Outlook With the general election now behind us, and as the economy continuesto strengthen, the prospect of higher interest rates looms large.
Such increase is likely to be gradual and should be regarded as an integral part of normalising monetary policy.
A key question for investors is whether such an extended period of low interest rates has caused some, in their quest for yield, to invest in more risky, more volatile and more illiquid assets, and more generally has inflated asset prices beyond their fair value.
In this context, it is worth reminding shareholders of City of Londons investment approach.
We focus on companies with cash generative businesses able to grow their dividends with attractive yields.
Our portfolio is well diversified, predominantly invested in well known blue chip UK companies with international exposure.
We aim to provide shareholders with dividends which yield significantly more than the market and which will grow at or above the rate of inflation.
The Company itself has gross assets of over 1.2 billion and provides shareholders with a ready, liquid market in its shares.
