Chairmans statement Focused on creating long-term value Returns to shareholders remained akey priority for the Board.
Cumulative dividends represent approximately 60% of the share price at the initial public offering.
Mike Biggs Chairman This consolidation was to maintain comparability of share Dear shareholders, price and earnings per share before and after the payment The Group achieved another good set of results in 2015, of a special interim dividend.
A special interim dividend through our focus on operating efficiency and our disciplined of 27.5 pence per share, being substantially all of the net approach to underwriting in competitive markets.
This enabled proceeds from the sale, was then paid on 24 July 2015. us to deliver an improvement in operating profit from ongoing In addition, the Board has resolved to pay a further special operations to 520.7 million 2014: 506.0 million.
This was interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share.
This takes the total despite higher than normal claims from major weather events special interim dividends for 2015 to 36.3 pence per share.
following three storms in December.
Linking remuneration to performance Strategy update The Executive Directors guided the business in achieving Our mission is to make insurance much easier and better value another good performance in 2015, with operating profit for our customers.
During 2015, our business progressed on from ongoing operations ahead of our financial targets.
delivering its strategic objectives and building future capability The Group has also made progress on its strategic objectives, in line with this mission.
We recognise that the changes including improving customers satisfaction with the service we have planned are ambitious.
They require substantial they experience.
The delivery of these objectives is linked investment to deliver a step change in our digital capability to the Executive Directors 2015 annual incentive plan together with an enhancement of core systems, which AIP awards.
combined will be for our customers benefit.
The Group achieved a return on tangible equity RoTE of Dividends 18.5% for 2015.
An increase of 39.9% in the share price to Under our progressive dividend policy, see page 96, we aim 407.5 pence at 31 December 2015, together with dividend to increase the dividend annually in real terms.
This aim reflects payments, provided a total shareholder return TSR of the potential of the Companys cash-flow generation and 46.9% for the year.
Since the initial public offering IPO, long-term earnings.
We are recommending a final dividend the Group has delivered good results each year, enabling of 9.2 pence per share.
If approved, the total regular dividend the Board to declare cumulative dividends, including special of 13.8 pence per share would represent 4.5% growth on interim dividends, equivalent to approximately 60% of the 2014s regular dividend 13.2 pence per share, which is IPO price.
The delivery of this level of return to shareholders consistent with this policy.
is reflected in the level of awards vesting under the long-term incentive plan LTIP.
More information on awards is given Earlier in 2015, the Group completed the sale of its in the letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, International division to Mapfre, S. A. and shareholders approved see page 70. an 11-for-12 consolidation of the Companys shares.
10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Solvency II Governance highlights We are assessing the Groups solvency capital requirements SCR using the standard formula until such time that the Leadership Group-wide partial internal model is approved by the Prudential Your Board seeks to ensure that decisions are of the highest Regulation Authority PRA.
At 31 December 2015, the Group standard.
It challenges strategic proposals, performance held a capital surplus of 794.6 million above its capital delivery and management responsibilities.
This was equivalent to a pro forma Solvency II capital coverage ratio of 147.4%.
Following approval, which Effectiveness is expected in mid-2016, we will disclose the recalibrated The effectiveness of your Boards and its Committees risk appetite range based on our Solvency II internal model performance is considered annually in effectiveness which will take into account the sensitivities of the Groups reviews.
See page 53. capital position on this basis.
Whilst receiving internal model approval will remove a key uncertainty in relation to the Accountability Groups capital position, the Board does not currently expect Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment the recalibration of the risk appetite range to lead to a step of the Groups position and prospects.
We monitor and change in the appropriate level of capital to be held.
review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Migrating IT infrastructure The migration of our IT infrastructure away from RBS Group, Remuneration while giving rise to many challenges, is now essentially Your Remuneration Committee ensures a close correlation complete.
Your Board provided oversight of this substantial between creating value for shareholders, and remunerating change.
Ongoing focuses of the Boards supervision include Executive Directors and senior executives appropriately.
the development of future capability and the monitoring See pages 57 and 70. of risks associated with IT systems stability, cyber security and the internal control environment.
Engagement Regulation, conduct and culture Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular interaction with our shareholders.
Their continued support We maintain active relationships with our regulators.
Your Board for our strategic aims is important.
See page 57. oversees the Groups conduct risk policy and culture, which aim to ensure that we treat customers appropriately and that employees behave with integrity.
We recognise that we have more to do to improve processes for our customers: As we announced on 16 February, Priscilla Vacassin however, your Board is pleased with improvements derived has decided to step down from the Board with effect from from our customer programmes.
We continue to focus on this, 1 March 2016.
Priscilla has made a crucial contribution as we develop new digital capabilities, core systems and to the Board, exercising effective stewardship of the Groups new ways of interacting with our customers.
executive remuneration arrangements, and I wish her every success for the future.
Clare Thompson has agreed to act as Board and Committee membership changes interim Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 1 March.
Glyn Jones, our former Senior Independent Director SID, At the same time she will step down as Chair and member stood down as a Director after the Companys 2015 Annual of the CSR Committee and the Investment Committee and General Meeting AGM, having decided to reduce the as a member of the Board Risk Committee.
Andrew Palmer number of his non-executive directorships after becoming will be appointed as Chair of the Investment Committee Chairman of a second listed company.
I wish Glyn well and Sebastian James as Chair of the CSR Committee with and thank him for his dedicated commitment and excellent effect from the same date.
Employees I am grateful to Andrew Palmer, an Independent Non-Executive I would also like to thank our employees for their hard Director NED and Chair of our Audit Committee, for work and commitment this year.
I am always struck by their having agreed to act as our SID while a search for a new positive attitudes and energy.
Their pride and dedication SID was undertaken.
At the same time, Priscilla Vacassin, to supporting our customers helped our business progress NED and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, was in 2015, and has put us in a strong position.
appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee.
Clare Thompson, NED and Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, was appointed as Chair of the Investment Committee, of which she was already a member.
On 18 January 2016, I was delighted to welcome Dr Richard Michael N Biggs Ward to the Board as our new SID.
Your Board will benefit Chairman from his deep knowledge of the insurance industry and his experience as Chairman and NED of other firms in the sector.
Further details about Richard are to be found on page 49. www.
