Chairmans Statement Electras performance continues to be extremely strong, with net asset value increasing by over 470 million in the two years to 30 September 2015, driven by excellent performance in the investment portfolio and impressive uplifts from realisations.
We are also pleased to be announcing a final dividend for the year, taking total dividends announced in the year to 116p per share.
The Board believes that Electras investment approach has served shareholders extremely well over the years, producing consistent returns in the targeted range of 10-15%.
The current portfolio is already delivering further strong growth, driven by our unique model, and we are very excited by the opportunities that lie ahead.
Overview I am pleased to report another set of excellent results for the year to 30 September 2015.
The total return to shareholders of 311 million has been achieved against a backdrop of difficult market conditions and continued agitation from our largest shareholder.
Much of this return arises out of portfolio realisations made either during the year or shortly after it.
Within the retained portfolio we continue to see good profit growth and cash generation both of which augur well for the future.
During this year, the Board concluded its review of the Companys capital structure, distribution policy and management fees, the results of which were announced in February.
The Board believes that these changes will deliver benefits for all shareholders and enhance future shareholder returns from the investment performance consistently delivered by Electra Partners.
Results This has been a particularly successful year with a total NAV return to 30 September 2015 of 25%.
Electras total share price return over the same period was 25%, compared to a total return on the FTSE All-Share of -2%.
This years excellent performance is a continuation of Electras long-term track record.
Over the 10 years to 30 September 2015, Electras diluted net asset value per share total return was 244%.
This compares to the Morningstar Private Equity Indexs total NAV return of 35% over ten years.
On this measure, Electra is the best performing London-listed private equity investment company.
Electras share price also performed well over the same period, generating a total return of 210%, compared to the total return for the Morningstar Private Equity Share Price Index of 10% and for the FTSE All-Share of 72%, both over ten years.
For the 10 years to 30 September 2015, Electras annualised net return on equity was 13%.
Over the same period Electras annualised share price return was 12%.
Investment Activity Investment activity continues at a high level, with one new direct investment and many bolt-on acquisitions within the portfolio.
The latter have in general offered more attractive pricing and better value than direct investment opportunities seen this year.
The ten completed bolt-ons were financed partly by Electra and with a further 125 million from portfolio companies own balance sheets.
4 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 During the period Electra announced the merger of Park Resorts, South Lakeland Parks and Southview and Manor Park with Parkdean Holidays to create a group with an enterprise value of 960 million and profits of more than 100 million.
This is a transformational deal which will help to drive this business forward.
Competition for and pricing of private equity investments are at historically high levels.
Against this backdrop, Electra Partners has been active in realising value from some of the more mature assets in the portfolio.
Realisations during the year to 30 September 2015 were at a high level, with proceeds of 259 million received and a further 270 million expected to be received shortly after the year-end.
Long-term Strategy and Sherborne Investors The long-term nature of private equity investment can be seen in terms of both the This has been a particularly investment process and average periods for which investments are held.
A new successful year with a investment can take several years to originate and from a few weeks to a year to execute.
total NAV return to During this time the Manager develops its relationship with the management team, 30 September 2015 of 25%.
builds its investment thesis and strategy, and performs extensive internal and third-party Electras total share price due diligence in order to fully understand both the target business and the market in return over the same which it operates.
Once made, private equity investments are illiquid and take time to period was 25%, compared mature before they reach a point at which value can be realised.
to a total return on the FTSE All-Share of -2%.
The effectiveness of this approach is demonstrated by Electras long-term performance.
Continuing this proven approach requires stability so that both the Manager and the portfolio company management teams can focus on implementing their agreed business plans.
Sherborne Investors have now held their investment in Electra for nearly two years but have consistently refused, despite repeated requests, to explain how and why they wish to implement changes to the Companys proven model.
On many occasions they have promised that their strategic changes will deliver 1 billion of additional value, but without providing any detail.
Accordingly, the Directors do not know how or over what period such additional value might be delivered.
In the meantime, Electras proven strategy continues to produce excellent returns over the two years since September 2013, shortly before Sherborne Investors came onto Electras share register, Electra has produced a net return of 473 million.
As an independent Board, we are open to constructive dialogue with all investors.
We are always interested to hear good suggestions as to how Electras performance could be improved.
In the case of Sherborne Investors, we have engaged in much dialogue but been offered absolutely no insight into the plan they intend to pursue.
We have seen no evidence that they have done any due diligence on the portfolio or are able to offer any insights into how the underlying portfolio might be improved.
Their continued description of Electra as a turnaround and of their participation on the Board as being active, implies that their plan will follow their normal short-term, cost-cutting strategy.
This would be completely at odds with the proven, patient growth strategy currently employed by Electra.
We can therefore only conclude that the presence on the Board of the nominees of Sherborne Investors would not only be incompatible with Electras proven strategy but also be potentially destabilising, divisive and value destructive.
Hence our opposition to the election of Sherbornes nominees to the Board.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 5 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Review of Capital Structure, Distribution Policy and Management Fees Following the General Meeting in October 2014, and as a result of discussions with shareholders, the Board announced that it was to conduct a review of Electras capital structure, distribution policy and fee arrangements with Electra Partners.
The outcome of this review was announced in February this year.
By way of summary the following key changes were agreed by the Board: The multi-currency revolving credit facility which was previously drawn to facilitate currency hedging has been repaid.
The facility will be redrawn in the future as required to bridge liquidity requirements for new investment or to meet ongoing expenses.
The Board is content under the present circumstances to accept the additional currency exposure that this debt repayment will bring.
However, the Companys foreign currency exposure will be kept under review.
The annual management fee, known as priority profit share, was previously set at 1.5% of gross assets, including cash.
From 1 April 2015, no fee is being paid on cash and the management fee on Non-Core Listed and Primary Fund Investments has reduced to 1%.
If the old arrangements had been in place, including the hedging policy, for the six months to 30 September 2015 the fee would have been 3 million higher than has been the case.
Beyond the Convertible Bonds and the Zero Dividend Preference Shares already in issue, it is not currently intended to borrow on Electras balance sheet other than through the use of the existing multi-currency facility on a revolving basis.
For a number of years the Company had not paid dividends unless required to do so to maintain Investment Trust status and has not initiated any share buybacks since 2008.
The Board has now implemented a distribution policy to return to shareholders a targeted 3% of NAV per annum by way of cash dividend or share buybacks.
It is the intention of the Board that any shares bought back under this policy will be cancelled.
The Board believes the above changes are in the interests of all shareholders and will enhance future returns.
Balance Sheet Net liquid resources at 30 September 2015, after allowing for the value of the ZDP Shares, which are repayable in August 2016, were 78 million.
As mentioned above, it is anticipated that approximately 270 million will be received in respect of investments sold before or shortly after the end of the year to 30 September 2015.
After taking into account the proposed final dividend and investments which are expected to complete in the near future, the resulting net liquid resources are anticipated to be approximately 170 million.
During the year the Companys multi-currency revolving credit facility was increased from 195 million to 275 million and the term was extended to December 2019.
All terms were improved, in particular the margin and commitment fee.
6 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 5% Subordinated Convertible Bond Subsequent to 30 September 2015, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 5% Subordinated Convertible Bond, the Company became entitled to exercise its right to a Mandatory Conversion of all of the Bonds in issue into ordinary shares.
Accordingly, the Board has resolved to exercise this right and proposes to issue the Mandatory Conversion Notice to Bond holders in November 2015.
Following the issue of the Mandatory Conversion Notice, the Bonds will convert into ordinary shares on 29 December 2015.
Bond holders will receive further details about the Mandatory Conversion in the Mandatory Conversion Notice once posted.
Dividend In line with the revised distribution policy described above, the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015 of 78p per ordinary share, equivalent to 2% of net asset value, which would make the total dividend paid for the year 116p per ordinary share based on the number of shares that will be in issue following the mandatory conversion of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds or 3% of net asset value.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 January 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 26 February 2016 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 22 January 2016.
Outlook This is another excellent set of results for Electra and a continuation of the Companys strong, long-term performance record.
Electras proven model continues to deliver excellent value for shareholders, with profit growth and cash generation within the portfolio suggesting that the prospects for the future are very promising.
Roger Yates Chairman 23 October 2015 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015 7 Further Information Governance Financial Statements Managers Review Strategic and Business Review Overview Audiotonix Audio mixing console manufacturer Photograph taken at the Baku 2015 European Games.
8 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2015
