4 Chairmans statement Peter Wood Chairman Controlled growth in a competitive market As founder of esure Group and Chairman, I am pleased to report that the Group delivered a trading profit of 92.3 2015 in summary million in 2015, competing well in competitive markets.
Marketplace Trading profit of 92.3 million delivered 2015 has been a mixed year for general insurers but one in 2015. with developments which I believe will help the Group progress in future years.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 7.3 pence per share, In Motor, there have been positive signs that rates are improving, following a challenging claims environment.
taking the total dividend to 11.5 pence The Government announcement that it will end the right per share for the year.
to cash compensation for minor whiplash injuries and raise the upper limit for the small claims court is positive and Motor claims environment challenging we will be working with the Government to ensure this in 2015: however, rates have seen is implemented effectively.
some improvement and continue In Home, pressure remains on pricing as competitors to move upwards.
look to enter the market or maintain their market share We are well placed for the future and profitability has been affected across the industry by the severe weather events seen late in the year.
and esure Group is now entering a growth phase.
Our performance Turning to our results in more detail, despite these challenging market conditions we have delivered a trading profit of 92.3 million.
Gross written premiums increased to 550.3 million as a result of the growth of in-force policies to over two million and an increase in rates.
The Group is focused on its underwriting performance and continues to expand its footprints in Motor and Home to offer more customers our excellent products and services.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 5 Q What is happening with Solvency II?
A We completed our final preparations for the introduction of Solvency II in 2015, which came into force on 1 January 2016.
Our insurance business has a good capital position that is appropriate for our strategic plans in 2016 and beyond.
Q&A Q What do the changes to payments for whiplash claims mean for esure Group?
A The Government proposals announced in October should Q What has been happening to motor prices?
end the right to cash compensation for minor whiplash injuries A The rating cycle in general insurance, in particular motor, and look to raise the upper limit for the small claims court has a significant impact on the industry and has finally for personal injury claims from 1,000 to 5,000.
These moves started to improve.
We have remained disciplined will ensure that those who are injured continue to receive throughout 2015, increasing prices as we look to mitigate appropriate treatment and will help deter those individuals rising claims costs.
The signs are positive and esure Group who attempt to defraud insurers.
This is welcome news is well placed to maximise the opportunities the improving and the changes, which are due to come into force in 2017, rate environment will bring.
should mean significant cost savings for consumers purchasing motor insurance.
We were delighted to complete the acquisition of Our people Gocompare.
com in March and I am pleased with progress In 2015, we further strengthened the operational management so far.
The relaunch of Gio Compario has already reinvigorated team with a number of senior hires who will work with Stuart the brand and our attention now turns to delivering growth and his executive team to drive the business forward over across all product lines in the future.
I welcome them and our other new recruits and would like to say thank you for the hard work of all Our goal is, as ever, to provide a good level of return for our colleagues across the Group, who I know are dedicated shareholders and I am pleased to confirm the Board has to our customers and making our business a success.
recommended a final dividend of 7.3 pence per share.
This together with the interim dividend of 4.2 pence takes the full year dividend to 11.5 pence per share representing a payout ratio of 70% of underlying profit after tax.
The payout reflects our strategy of retaining capital when we see good growth opportunities.
Through retaining profit, the Group remains well capitalised and is well positioned Peter Wood for this growth.
Chairman Our Board As Chairman of the Board, I am committed to ensuring the highest levels of governance and expertise.
Our Board continues to do an excellent job of providing leadership and overseeing the direction of the business and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all for their input.
During the year we have seen a number of changes including the departures of Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony Hobson, both of whom stepped down at our AGM, Mike Evans, who left in August, and Anne Richards, who stood down in February 2016 following her appointment as CEO of M&G Investments.
I would like to thank them for their support over the years: they have been invaluable in offering guidance and challenge.
As a result of Dame Helen Alexander stepping down, Shirley Garrood, a member of the Board since 2013, was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in May and Deputy Chairman in June.
We have welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors, Martin Pike and Angela Seymour-Jackson, in August and October respectively.
Martin and Angela both bring further expertise to our Board and I look forward to working with them over the coming years.
