STRATEGY Chairmans Statement and monetary policy are likely to feature high on the agenda and we are already seeing some very important developments in the stock market, such as the opening up of Shanghai-Hong Kong Stock Connect, explained further in the Portfolio Managers Review.
As highlighted last year, the Chinese economy is in a new development phase as the government looks to move away John Owen froman economic model driven by state-directed investment Chairman spending towards one more reliant on the increasingly wealthy Chinese consumer.
The ongoing reform programme in China I have pleasure in presenting the fifth Annual Report of Fidelity supports this view and should lead to interesting investment China Special Situations PLC for the year ended 31 March 2015. opportunities, which are well represented in the portfolio.
The government has also reduced its GDP growth target to a new The Company celebrated its fifth anniversary on 19 April 2015. normal of 7% per annum an attractive growth rate compared Over this time, the Net Asset Value NAV per share had risen to the rest of the world but also a more realistic and sustainable to just over 200 pence.
An investor who bought 1,000 of shares outlook for Chinas economy.
in the IPO in 2010 and reinvested all dividends would after five years have had a holding worth 1,690, an increase in value of Many investors point to this slowing growth rate as a reason to 69.0%.
However, as the final results of the Company indicate, economic growth and stock market returns For the year under review, the Companys NAV increased by can often be uncorrelated as markets are driven by factors other 45.3% and the share price by 39.9%.
The NAV outperformed our than GDP.
That said, we should highlight that valuations play a Benchmark Index, the MSCI China Index in sterling terms, by 6.0%.
large part in investment performance.
I am also pleased to report that What Investment Trust has While the fundamental drivers of the investment case for China recently named Fidelity China Special Situations PLC as the Best remain as valid now as they were in April 2010 when the Emerging Markets Investment Trust.
Company was launched, valuations in certain parts of the market have risen.
This emphasises the need for detailed research and PERFORMANCE REVIEW careful stock picking, which the Board believes Dale Nicholls and This reporting period represents Dale Nicholls first full year as his team are well able to deliver for our investors.
It has been a positive start for Dale building on the solid foundations for the portfolio put in place by Anthony GEARING Bolton, the previous portfolio manager, whose major contribution The Company renewed its multicurrency revolving credit facility I would like to acknowledge.
agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000 on 14February 2014 to continue for a further three years.
The loan The NAV and the share price of the Company are now at an all has been fully drawn down.
time high, although the discount of the share price to the NAV has widened.
We believe that the discount is largely a reflection To achieve further gearing, the Company uses Contracts For of ongoing negative investor sentiment towards China and Difference on a number of holdings in its portfolio.
Further details profit-taking after exceptionally strong returns.
Despite the are in Note 19 on page 61. country recording some of the best share price returns in the world in 2014, investors remain cautious.
Since the year end we At 31 March 2015, the Companys gearing, defined as the Gross have also increased our buybacks of shares in the market.
We Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets, was 25.9% 2014: 22.9%.
have increased our marketing spend and the marketing activities of the Portfolio Manager to focus on some ofthese concerns a DIVIDEND number of which are addressed in the Portfolio Managers The Board recommends a dividend of 1.30 pence 2014: 1.15 Report.
pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 March 2015 for approval by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General One stand-out factor in China over the last year has been reform.
This represents a 13% increase on the 1.15 pence paid We are now in the third year of the current governments tenure in respect of last year.
and it will likely be characterised by the implementation of further reform.
In President Xi Jinpings first year at the helm, he The dividend will be payable on 24 July 2015 to shareholders on announced a high level vision for China, which included the register on 19 June 2015 ex-dividend date 18 June 2015. changing the countrys hukou system and one child policy.
His second year was dominated by an anti-corruption campaign, Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase which, despite acting as a form of austerity, enabled the more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend government to build a general consensus on reform.
This year Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 71. looks set to start the reform implementation in earnest.
Fiscal Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 3 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement DISCOUNT AND PREMIUM toFIL Investments International both acted as the Companys The Board recognises that the Companys share price is affected previous Managers.
FIL Investments International continues to by the interaction of supply and demand in the market, investor act as Company Secretary.
sentiment towards China as well as the NAV per share.
Recognising these factors, the Board regularly reviews the An additional requirement of the AIFMD was to appoint a difference between the market price of the shares and the Depositary on behalf of the Company to oversee the custody NAVper share, and reserves the right to manage the difference and cash arrangements of the Company.
The Company has through repurchasing shares into Treasury or for cancellation.
In appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited to act as the Companys order to assist in managing the discount, the Board sought and Depositary.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited is part of the same group received shareholder approval at last years Annual General of companies as JPMorgan Chase Bank who continues to act as Meeting to hold in Treasury any Ordinary Shares repurchased by the Companys Banker and Custodian.
the Company, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Shares carry no voting rights or rights to receive a dividend and have no The Alternative Fund Managers Disclosure report is on page 68. entitlement in a winding up of the Company.
Shares in Treasury do not count in the calculation of NAV per share.
No more than THE BOARD 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company can In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for beheld in Treasury.
Any shares held in Treasury would only be Directors of FTSE 350 companies, the entire Board is subject to re-issued at NAV per share or at a premium to NAV per share.
annual re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing and then The Directors biographies can be found on page 19.
The re-issuing the Ordinary Shares would enhance NAV per share.
Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills and The Board is seeking shareholder authority to renew this experience to form a balanced Board for the Company.
authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 22 JULY 2015 During the reporting year, in furtherance of this policy, the Board The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at authorised the repurchase at a discount of 100,000 Ordinary Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R8JB Shares which are held in Treasury.
Since the year end, the on Wednesday 22 July 2015 at 11 am.
Company has repurchased 7,275,000 Ordinary Shares which arealso held in Treasury.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to shareholders.
Dale Nicholls, the Portfolio Manager, will be MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE FEES making a presentation on the years results and the prospects for With effect from 1 April 2014, the annual management fee the Company for the year to come.
We encourage you to join us payable to the Managers was reduced to 1.0% per annum of the on this occasion.
Further details are included in the Directors Report on page 20.
For the year ending 31 March 2015, the ongoing charges were 1.29% 2014: 1.45%.
The maximum performance fee that is payable was reduced from 1.5% to 1.0% of the average Net Asset Value with effect from John Owen CMG MBE DL the year ending 31 March 2014.
In addition, any out-performance Chairman against the Companys Benchmark Index including the 2% hurdle 11 June 2015 rate, in excess of that required to reach this 1% maximum fee, is no longer carried forward.
Any under-performance against the Companys Benchmark Index including the 2% hurdle rate, must still be made good before a performance fee is payable.
The performance fee paid in respect of the year ended 31 March 2015 was 4,744,000 2014: 6,416,000.
REGULATORY MATTERS The Board worked with its advisors in order to achieve compliance with the European Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD which came into effect on 22 July 2014.
As a result the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited a FIL Group company to act as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited has delegated the investment management other than in unlisted securities to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and for unlisted securities Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2015 4 Job No: 21960 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
