STRATEGY Chairmans Statement voteof confidence in the worlds largest economy.
Not all European companies finished the year in positive territory though.
Companies exposed to slowing emerging market economies and or involved in the extraction or production of commodities proved particularly vulnerable to renewed fears for the global economy and deflation.
Against this backdrop, the Portfolio Managers preference for companies with solid balance sheets and growing dividends proved rewarding over the period.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman OUTLOOK Looking ahead, the recovery in the Eurozone remains intact I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report of Fidelity andis being increasingly supported by improving domestic European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December 2015. demand and an uptick in consumer confidence and spending driven by stronger employment trends, rising wages and lower PERFORMANCE energy prices.
The weaker euro is also good for European I am pleased to report that for the year ended 31 December companies competitiveness, as is the falling cost of debt and 2015, the net asset value NAV per share total return of your rising availability of finance and liquidity.
Having said that, there Company was 6.9%, outperforming its Benchmark Index, the are also potential risks on the horizon.
Markets are becoming FTSEWorld Europe ex UK Index, which returned 5.3%.
The share increasingly concerned about a global economic slowdown and price total return over this period was 9.2%, ahead of the NAV deflation.
In particular, growth in the Eurozone isexpected to return as a consequence of the level of discount ex-income continue to be hindered by the slowdown in emerging markets narrowing from 4.6% at the start of the year to 2.9% at the year and the necessary balance sheet adjustments in a number of end.
Geopolitical risks also have the potential to weigh on global growth in 2016 and to impact negatively on demand for I am pleased to say that the three and five year performance Eurozone exports.
returns are also ahead of the Benchmark Index, as shown in the table below.
All figures are in UK sterling terms and are on a One other uncertainty we need to factor into the whole equation total return basis.
is of course Brexit as we are a UK listed Company investing incontinental Europe and have the flexibility to invest up to 20% European equities rose in sterling terms over the 12-month of the portfolio in UK stocks.
Exit from the European Union would periodending 31 December 2015.
Gains were primarily driven have wide consequences for the UK and, less commonly by increasing evidence of a recovery in European economies, discussed, also for continental European countries.
The UK is the which were supported by the European Central Banks ECB second largest European economy and the links are substantial, accommodative monetary policy stance and lower energy both trading and otherwise.
In the first quarter, markets rose strongly as the ECB announced a bond buying stimulus programme that exceeded The Portfolio Managers focus on attractively valued companies market expectations.
However, these gains were partially exhibiting long term structural growth prospects, proven business reversed as markets fell sharply in the third quarter due to models, strong balance sheets and disciplined use of capital concerns about Chinas slowdown and its potential impact on seems particularly suited to this more uncertain backdrop, which theglobal economy.
In the fourth quarter, markets rallied again is discussed in more detail in our Portfolio Managers Review on on expectations of additional stimulus measures by the ECB pages 5 and 6. andChina.
Markets also reacted positively to the US Federal Reserves small interest rate increase, which was taken as a PERFORMANCE OVER ONE YEAR, THREE YEARS, FIVE YEARS AND SINCE LAUNCH TO 31 DECEMBER 2015 ON A TOTAL RETURN BASIS % FTSE World Europe NAV Share price ex UK Index One year 6.9 9.2 5.3 Three years 34.8 43.4 32.1 Five years 48.9 72.2 32.7 Since launch 1991 2,202.9 2,129.8 658.6 Data prior to the year ended 31 December 2011 is on a net of tax basis Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 3 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 15 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Chairmans Statement OTHER MATTERS against income and not against capital.
Some investment trusts, particularly those with an equity income objective, split Gearing The Company continues to gear through the use of long management charges between capital and income, which has the effect of increasing the income return and thus dividend Contracts For Difference CFDs.
The Manager has paying potential and reducing the capital return.
I would stress flexibility to gear within parameters set by the Board.
Gearing that this does not alter the total return from both capital and levels are discussed at every Board meeting and between income combined whatsoever.
Moreover, there is no right or meetings when necessary.
Gearing made a small positive wrong way and it is a matter for judgement.
However, the basis contribution to performance in the reporting year, as can be should be taken into account when comparing the dividend yield seen from the attribution analysis table on page 9. between different companies.
Board of Directors Discount Management and Treasury Shares The Board continues to adopt an active discount management I became Chairman of your Company in May 2010 and have served as a Director since June 2007.
After six years as Chairman policy.
Whilst the primary purpose of our policy is to reduce share price volatility in relation to NAV, buying in shares at a and nine years altogether, I will retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I have thoroughly enjoyed discount also results in an enhancement to the NAV per share.
In order to assist in managing the discount, the Board sought and serving on your Board and would like to thank shareholders, my fellow Directors and the team at Fidelity for all the support I have received shareholder approval at last years Annual General Meeting to hold in Treasury ordinary shares repurchased by the been given.
Company, rather than cancelling them altogether.
These shares I am delighted to say that Mr Vivian Bazalgette will succeed are then available to re-issue, should the share price come to meas Chairman.
Vivian joined the Board on 1 December 2015. stand at a premium to NAV, facilitating the management of and He has over thirty five years of investment management and enhancing liquidity in our shares.
financial services experience having held senior positions in Treasury shares carry novoting rights or rights to receive a anumber of asset management companies.
I look forward dividend and have no entitlement in a winding up of the tointroducing Vivian at the Annual General Meeting on Company.
No more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital 12May2016.
of the Company can be held in Treasury.
Any shares held in In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Treasury will only be re-issued at a premium to NAV per share.
andbeing a FTSE 350 Company, all Directors are subject to The net effect of repurchasing shares at a discount and then annual re-election by shareholders and, with my exception, re-issuing them at a premium will enhance NAV per share.
The putthemselves forward for re-election at the forthcoming Board is seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority at AnnualGeneral Meeting.
The Directors have a wide range of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
appropriate skills and experience to make up a balanced Board As a result of an improvement in the way the Companys shares for your Company.
Biographical details are shown on page 19. have traded against NAV, we are pleased to say that no share repurchase activity has taken place during the year ended Change of Auditor 31December 2015 and no shares are held as yet in Treasury.
During the reporting year, an audit tender process was carried Noshares have been repurchased since the end of the reporting out and Ernst & Young LLP were recommended for appointment period and as at the date of this report.
as the Companys independent Auditor from 1 January 2016 replacing Grant Thornton UK LLP who have been in office since Dividends 2006.
This appointment is subject to approval by the shareholders The Board intends to continue with its practice of largely paying at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further details can out revenue in full.
The objective is one of long term capital be found in the Directors Report on pages 20 and 21.
On behalf growth and we will not seek to influence the Portfolio Manager of all the shareholders, I would like to thank Grant Thornton UK by imposing any income requirement in any particular year.
LLP for all their work over the years that they have been in office.
The Board has decided to recommend a final dividend of 3.33 Annual General Meeting pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2014:final dividend of 3.10 pence per share: and special Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA St Pauls dividend of0.54 pence per share which related to the successful or Mansion House tube stations on Thursday 12 May 2016 at tax reclaim in France.
The dividend will be payable on 20May midday.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 56 to 58.
2016 to shareholders who appear on the register asatclose of business on 29 March 2016 ex-dividend date 24March 2016.
My fellow Directors and I look forward to talking with as many shareholders as possible on this occasion and it will be our The increase in the proposed final dividend for 2015 over the pleasure to hold a presentation by your Portfolio Manager, 3.10 pence paid for 2014 is therefore 7.4%.
that the increase is a function of stock selection and cannot be extrapolated into the future, Sam Morse continues to focus on companies which are able to grow their dividends and this is one of the underlying factors in his stock selection.
One observation I would like to repeat from previous years whichshareholders should consider when comparing the level Humphrey van der Klugt ofdividend yield between investment companies is that we take Chairman 11 March 2016 a conservative approach of charging all management expenses Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2015 4 Job No: 24434 Proof Event: 13 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2015 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
