Chairmans statement Simon Fraser, Chairman Despite 2015 being a challenging year for stock markets, I am very glad to report that your Company delivered a total shareholder return of 9.0% for the year.
The net asset value per share with debt at market value rose from 458.4p to 483.4p per share and the share price rose by 6.7% to 449.2p.
Underlying growth in net assets and the improved rating of the Company were both positive drivers of total shareholder return in 2015.
The discount to net asset value per share narrowed from 8.1% at the start of the year to 7.0% by the end.
The dividend for 2015 will be 9.60p, an increase of 3.2% on the year our forty-fifth consecutive annual rise in dividends.
This years results strengthen our long-term record of delivering marginally lower in price terms with dividends pushing total returns growth in capital and income for our shareholders.
Over ten years just into positive territory.
Despite a flat year for the US equity our share price total return is 118%, equivalent to 8.2% per annum market there was a great deal of return dispersion within and across and over twenty years is 312%, which equates to 7.3% per annum.
The collapse in the oil price and ongoing decline in commodity prices placed stocks exposed to these areas under Performance considerable pressure throughout 2015.
Global equity markets exhibited higher volatility and lower returns in 2015 than investors have become accustomed to in recent With concerns over Chinese growth and policy, weakening years.
Indeed, the bellwether US S&P500 index finished the year commodity prices and a strong dollar, Emerging Market assets had Foreign & Colonials net asset value and share price performance vs Benchmark over five years 180 160 140 120 100 Source: F&C Management Limited & Datastream 80 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust NAV total return FTSE All World total return GBP Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust share price total return 6 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT another poor year.
Underlying macroeconomic fundamentals globally not reinvested as we consciously reduced our market exposure in remained tepid but, despite anaemic growth, it was a better year response to increased concerns over prospects for 2016. for Japanese and European equity markets rising 17.6% and 6.0% respectively.
Closer to home, the FTSE100 reached an all-time high We are in a strong position with regard to our funding costs, but ended 2015 down on the year.
following the maturity of our long-standing debenture at the end of 2014.
At the end of 2015 around half of our borrowings were Our net asset value total return of 7.5% was above the 4.0% short dated in nature where we paid rates of between 0.4% and delivered by the FTSE All World Index over the year.
This strategy of deliberately structuring a range of maturities, report that we have delivered excess returns against our benchmark reduces our refinancing risks and has enabled us to secure certainty index over one, three, five and ten years.
We benefited from good of funding while maintaining highly attractive rates for our borrowing.
stock selection across a broad number of our underlying strategies Our current blended cost of borrowing is around 1.6%.
and strong performance from our Private Equity portfolio, with high levels of cashflow from this area also boosting returns.
Private Equity 2015 was another good year for our Private Equity holdings, which Performance relative to our peers in the AIC Global Investment Trust delivered returns of 13.9% and generated 129m of cash.
Our universe and comparable open-ended investment companies was longer term shareholders will recall that our most recent programme also strong over 2015.
Against these competitors we also delivered of Private Equity investments was made between 2003 and 2008. outperformance over one, three, five and ten year periods.
I am pleased to report that, by the end of 2015, we had received back our original investment in sterling terms, ending the year with Asset allocation changes were relatively few in 2015.
We have a further 276m or 9.4% of the portfolio still to be realised.
Your made substantial changes in recent years to achieve truly global Company has the considerable advantage of a closed ended capital exposure, reducing UK equity allocations, and benefiting from our structure, which enables us to make long-term commitments to maturing Private Equity portfolio.
Our strategic positioning to provide unlisted and illiquid investments.
Returns, net of all fees, from our diversified exposure to listed equities and to Private Equity has Private Equity investments have substantially exceeded those from served shareholders well and, with a range of global and regional listed equity markets and, as a result, the decision to commit to this strategies, we believe that we are well placed to continue to deliver area more than a decade ago has added value for our shareholders.
growth in capital and income over the long term with less volatility Looking forward, the Board have been engaged with the Manager than our key competitors.
over future commitments to Private Equity investments and we have agreed that we set up a new structure for future Private Equity Gearing commitments that will draw on our Managers internal expertise in Gearing levels ended 2015 at a slightly lower level than the start.
In Private Equity more directly.
Our new approach will give us more July, however, our Manager took the opportunity presented by the control and flexibility as well as a cost effective way of accessing low interest rate environment to secure some medium term seven exposure to Private Equity opportunities going forward.
year borrowing which was partially invested into equity markets during the weakness which occurred in August.
The seven-year bank Expenses loan offered an attractive opportunity to lock in low rates and we Your Board remains focused on the effective management of our drew 50m of debt, denominated in Euros, with an effective interest cost base and, during the year, undertook a comprehensive review rate of less than 1.7%.
of our existing fee arrangements both in absolute terms and relative to our wider competition.
We have reduced our Ongoing Charges As the year progressed, our Manager lightened equity weightings, from 0.87% to 0.80% in 2015.
We anticipate further material cutting exposure in December and raising cash levels.
In addition, reductions in Ongoing Charges by lowering the costs associated healthy cashflow from our maturing Private Equity holdings was with the management of our Private Equity portfolio in the future.
We believe that these reductions will strengthen the Companys relative positioning in relation to reporting our expense ratio.
Whilst attempts We have delivered excess returns have been made by our industry body to standardise the reporting of ongoing charges across the marketplace, it is clear that further against our benchmark index over one, action is required before consistent application is achieved.
Our Total three, five and ten years Report and Accounts 2015 | 7 Expense Ratio of 0.53% places the Company very competitively within its peer group.
As reported last year, the Companys management fees and interest charges are allocated between the revenue and capital accounts in accordance with the long-term expected split of capital and revenue returns from the portfolio.
We recognise the importance of a rising Dividend Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, you income stream in real terms will receive a final dividend of 2.70 pence per share on 3 May 2016.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 9.60 pence.
That for our shareholders and it will be an increase of 3.2% over 2014 compared with an increase of 1.2% in the Retail Price Index and 0.2% in the Consumer Price is a clear focus of the Board Index.
We recognise the importance of a rising income stream in real that we maintain our record terms for our shareholders and it is a clear focus of the Board that we maintain our record of long-term dividend growth ahead of the of long-term growth ahead of rate of inflation.
While the economic outlook remains uncertain, and we may well see some pressure on certain dividend payers within the rate of inflation.
the portfolio, the Board is planning another dividend increase ahead of inflation for 2016.
Diversification in our underlying holdings helps to protect our income and we have accumulated substantial revenue reserves to help to smooth dividend payments for our shareholders.
In seeking to deliver on our dual objectives of long-term growth in both capital and income the Manager and Board seek to achieve an appropriate blend of rising real income on our investment portfolio without compromising capital returns.
In that regard, we will draw down 6.28m 1.1p per share from our revenue reserve account in 2015 to fund payments of dividends to shareholders.
This drawdown is significantly lower than the 14.3m which was drawn from our revenue reserve in 2014.
Buyback and Share Issue Policies As was the case in 2014, your Company enjoyed an improvement in from 8.1% at the start of the year, boosting shareholder returns.
the rating of its shares over the year.
The share price discount to the Each 1% reduction in the discount adds more than 25m to total net asset value per share reduced to 7.0% at the end of 2015, down shareholder returns.
Foreign & Colonials annual dividend per share vs Consumer Price Index over 10 years Rebased to 100 at 31 December 2005 250 200 150 Source: F&C & Datastream 100 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust annual dividend per share Consumer Price Index 8 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT The Board introduced a maximum discount policy in 2005 and, broadening of investment expertise that the new owner of F&C is in recent years, we have seen a substantial reduction in share bringing and will continue to look for opportunities from the Group buybacks required to maintain this level.
Indeed, 2015 saw buybacks that can be of benefit to shareholders.
of 3.3m shares versus 8.0m in 2014 which was the lowest level in a decade.
This reduced level of buybacks is, in part, a function Change of auditor of a substantially changed shareholder base, with the vast majority For the reasons set out in the Report of the Audit Committee, of your Companys shares now held by private investors.
It also  LLP PwC will not seek reappointment reflects the Companys improved rating through the strength of as external auditor at the Annual General Meeting.
This is by mutual its investment proposition to the retail marketplace.
For investors agreement between the Board and PwC who have provided seeking diversified exposure to both listed and unlisted equity excellent service to Foreign & Colonial since inception in 1868. markets your Company has demonstrated a long-term track record Shareholders will be asked to approve a resolution to appoint Ernst of strong absolute and relative performance against both market & Young LLP EY as the Companys independent auditor with indices and peers.
Importantly, this performance has been delivered effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in April.
Outlook The Great Recession of 2007-9 still casts a shadow on the global Your Company enjoyed an improvement economy and financial markets.
Despite an interest rate hike from in the rating of its shares over the year.
the US Federal Reserve in December 2015 rates globally remain extraordinarily low.
Major central banks such as the Bank of Japan The Board implemented two policy changes during the year as and the European Central Bank continue to ease policy, with part of a more flexible and progressive discount control strategy.
rates there negative and falling.
Slowing growth in China and the Firstly, the target discount to net asset value at which the Company weakness in commodity markets is continuing to create deflationary buys back shares was reduced from a level of 10% to an average worries and this seems to be reducing the impact of accommodative level of 7.5%.
Secondly, as approved by shareholders at the 2015 central bank policy.
The UKs forthcoming referendum on whether annual general meeting, repurchased shares are now being held in to stay in the European Union is likely to continue to add to the Treasury.
The Board will continue to review its buyback policy.
We uncertainty and nervousness of markets in the months ahead.
retain the aspiration of seeing the Companys discount narrowing further towards the long-held aim of the shares trading at or close With the global economy in an anaemic state and many emerging to net asset value and with the ultimate future resale of shares from economies showing materially lower rates of growth the outlook for treasury.
Any such sales of treasury shares would always be at a asset markets remains challenged.
There are signs that corporate premium to net asset value.
profits globally are struggling, even outside of the resources and energy sectors, and risk appetite from investors is at low levels.
The Board and Corporate Governance Christopher Keljik, your Senior Independent Director, will retire following Despite these challenges Foreign & Colonial remains well placed the Annual General Meeting having served on the Board for over ten to withstand short-term volatility and to deliver positive returns for years.
He is a member of all of the committees and has worked tirelessly our shareholders over the long term.
Our diversified approach to a with great enthusiasm and diligence in his time on the Board in the variety of underlying investment strategies helps us reduce risk in pursuit of your Company continuing to deliver the highest levels of an uncertain world and we are also benefiting from extremely low performance.
We will miss his contribution very much.
Sir Roger Bone rates on our borrowings.
Our closed-ended structure allows us to will be appointed Senior Independent Director in his place.
Your Board take advantage of attractive investments which have low levels of is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and has liquidity.
We have enjoyed good returns over public markets from complied with the relevant guidance throughout the year.
our Private Equity investments and by recommitting to this area, in a more flexible and cost effective way, we expect to further enhance Following a detailed review by the Management Engagement long-term returns for our shareholders.
While the near term appears Committee, the Board has reappointed the Manager for another year difficult, our ability to step back and take a longer-term perspective and continues to work closely with our Fund Manager in developing on investment opportunities is a distinct advantage in delivering further your Company as a truly global investment trust.
We continue performance over time.
to monitor all aspects of the Managers performance very carefully and as part of the reappointment process met not only with their Simon Fraser senior management, but also those from its parent company, Chairman the Bank Of Montreal.
We are pleased with the stability and the 7 March 2016 Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
