Chairmans statement In 2015 Greggs delivered an exceptional operational and financial performance, whilst also making good progress against its longerterm strategic plan.
In 2015 Greggs delivered an excellent operational and financial T he excellent outcome in performance whilst also making good progress against its longer-term strategic plan.
Trading conditions have continued 2015 gives us confidence as to be supportive but the food-on-the-go market remains competitive and fast-moving, and so must Greggs.
The we go into what we expect excellent outcome in 2015 gives us confidence as we go into what we expect to be another busy year.
Overview Ian Durant, Chairman In 2015, Greggs made further progress in executing the strategic plan outlined in 2013, which focused the business on the growing food-on-the-go market.
This is bringing about significant changes to the quality and relevance of our product offer as well as the positioning and condition of the Greggs shop estate.
We are also two years into a significant change programme, with ongoing investment in processes and systems delivering benefits in terms of efficiency and greater agility.
The result has been another excellent financial performance, founded on strong like-for-like sales growth and leveraging the vertical integration of the Greggs business model.
The Chief Executives report provides greater detail on performance in 2015, progress against our strategic plan and key targets.
Our people and values As a Board, we believe that the Greggs culture and heritage is a key component of how the brand is perceived and cherished by our customers.
The ongoing success of our business requires constant embracing of change but the way in which we implement changes is very much informed by our values and the long-term mind-set that has served the business so well.
I would like to thank everyone who has worked for Greggs during the past year and contributed to its success.
We are proud of our achievements and have delivered an excellent financial performance whilst ensuring that Greggs remains an engaging place to work and a positive contributor to the communities in which we trade.
04 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts During 2015 the Board carried out a review of the appropriate The Board capital structure of the Group, including consultation with There were no changes in the composition of the Board in some shareholders on different options for returning surplus 2015, following a number of appointments in 2014.
Given the leasehold nature of the shop portfolio the completed our first independent Board evaluation in the year: Board concluded that it is not currently appropriate to take on the results were reassuring in terms of the effectiveness of the structural debt and intends to maintain a net cash position.
Board and have given us a number of actions for further improvement in the year ahead.
In 2015 the Group paid its first special dividend of 20.0p per share a total of 20.2 million, in addition to ordinary dividends Board members are encouraged to spend time in the business, paid in the year totalling 23.4p per share.
Our Finance Director, exploring its operations and talking with staff for my part this Richard Hutton, outlines the expected application of the included a night shift in South Wales in order to inform our distribution policy in more detail in the financial review.
Our aspiration is to maintain an open and constructive dialogue with a management team Looking ahead which values the contributions of the Non-Executive Directors.
We have made great progress in executing the strategic Our discussions are often lively and, whilst mutually respectful, realignment of the business and, in the year ahead, will a diversity of views is considered a strength.
continue to make changes to improve further in all areas.
This is expected to include major investment and change in The Boards priorities in the past year have included oversight our supply chain, which will involve some proposed bakery of the programme of process and systems change, people closures, as detailed in the Chief Executives report.
We realise development and increasing our understanding of customer that this will be difficult for the people impacted but is essential needs.
In addition, we have spent a significant amount of time to support growth and the long-term competitiveness of considering plans to invest in the Companys internal supply the business.
chain, including the acquisition of an additional distribution facility in north London and the other proposals outlined in High quality delivery of our change programme and the Chief Executives report.
operational plans has resulted in a strong business performance over the last two years.
I am confident that Further details of the Boards work can be found in the we can make further progress in the year ahead.
Governance and Committee sections of this annual report.
Ian Durant Dividend policy and capital structure Chairman Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary dividend 1 March 2016 that is two times covered by earnings, with any further surplus capital being returned by way of special dividends.
In line with its progressive dividend policy the Board intends to recommend at the Annual General Meeting AGM a final dividend of 21.2p per share 2014: 16.0p, giving a total ordinary dividend for the year of 28.6p 2014: 22.0p, an increase of 30.0 per cent.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
