STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Strong underlying performance in the face of known headwinds.
I have great pleasure introducing our Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2015 in which Michael Evans we announce a solid set of financial results.
Chairman Our asset gathering abilities have meant that despite periods of low investor confidence during the year, we have delivered strong net new business flows underpinned by impressive numbers of net new clients.
As a result, our assets under administration finished the year at a record level.
Over the course of the year, we successfully navigated through the changes in the market place following the Retail Distribution Review.
We have launched a number of new Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Funds, we were one of very few firms ready to offer clients the full range of pensions freedom on 6 April, and our new HL Portfolio service was very well Within the Executive Committee, we said received by our clients.
At the end of the year we governance statement and can be found on pages 33 to 43. goodbye to Nigel Bence after 22 years service were delighted to announce the acquisition of up contributing strongly to the risk, compliance to 7,000 clients and 370m of assets from J. P. and operational side of the business.
In June Morgan Asset Management.
Over the course of the year, Peter Hargreaves and Tracey Taylor stepped down as Executive 2015, we welcomed Vikki Williams as Chief Directors.
Peter co-founded this great business Operating Officer.
We have taken big strides forward over the year in 1981 and his knowledge and expertise will be supporting our people, with much attention on much missed by the Board.
We are delighted We have delivered strong underlying career development and talent management.
that he remains an employee allowing the performance across our business, but in the face business to continue to benefit from his wisdom.
of known headwinds, we report a reduction in We continue to be a financially strong Tracey had been with Hargreaves Lansdown for profits.
These headwinds include this year being organisation with a clean, robust balance sheet 15 years, serving as Chief Financial Officer for the the first full year following the introduction of retaining a healthy margin over the regulatory last five years and was well respected in the City.
the Retail Distribution Review, the changes in the capital adequacy requirements.
Therefore On behalf of the Board I would like to thank both regulations concerning client money, precluding after careful review of the companys future Peter and Tracey for their huge contribution to the use of term deposits over 30 days, to cash requirements, the Board has decided the business.
the detriment of both our clients and our to increase the total dividend for the year by shareholders, and an unexpected increase in our paying a second interim ordinary dividend In July 2015, we announced that we had FSCS levy, which we continue to see as nothing of 14.30p per share 2014: 15.39p and an selected a new independent Non-Executive more than a tax on well run businesses.
increased special dividend of 11.40p per share Director whose appointment would be 2014: 9.61p representing total dividends for confirmed upon receipt of regulatory approval, The coming year will be a challenging one but we the year of 33.0p per share 2014: 32.0p : an and that Dharmash Mistry would be stepping believe we are well set to return the Group to its increase of 3%.
down as a Non-Executive Director with effect growth trajectory, building on the new services from 31 August 2015. and features delivered in 2015 to allow us to Good governance has always been at the continue to thrive in our chosen markets.
During the course of In August 2015, we announced the talented people remain integral to our success the year, we created a Board Risk Committee appointment of Chris Hill as Chief Financial and, as always my gratitude goes to the Board to supplement the Audit Committee and to Officer who, subject to regulatory clearance, and our staff for their continuing hard work, focus on the forward looking aspects of risk should be starting with us in March 2016.
Towards the end of the year, we the meantime we continue to benefit from the commissioned an externally facilitated Board services of a very well qualified interim Chief Michael Evans Chairman effectiveness review.
Details of the agreed outcomes of the review are contained in our Financial Officer.
16 September 2015 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 7
