12 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc chairmans statement Building on proven, sustainable growth the Group achieved a milestone this year by insuring over 2 million customers.
Overview and strategy I am pleased to introduce the maiden Annual Report and Accounts for Hastings Group Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
It has been a landmark year for the Company achieving a successful listing on the London Stock Exchange on 15 October 2015 and subsequent admittance to the FTSE 250 index.
This report covers the performance of the Groups pre-IPO parent company, Hastings Insurance Group Holdings plc from 1January2015 until 11 August 2015 and the current Group parent company, Hastings Group Holdings plc from 12August 2015 to 31December 2015.
Building on proven, sustainable growth the Group achieved a milestone this year by insuring over 2 million customers.
The Mike Fairey Chairman Group also launched a new system for its Claims platform and is due to launch a new system in Retail in 2016.
To meet the It has been a needs of a growing business the Group also opened a new site in Leicester to landmark year.
complement its existing offices in Bexhill, Newmarket and Gibraltar.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 13 2015 Review the Board and Governance Optimising shareholder value dividends Performance As Chairman I am ably supported by a Board of appropriate experience and The year was one of increasing The Board remains confident in the calibre.
Following rigorous and stringent premiums for the car insurance market Groups long-term prospects and is candidate searches Thomas Colraine which coincided with claims inflation.
pleased to propose a final dividend joined the Board as Senior Independent Against this backdrop, along with of 2.2p per share, to be paid on Non-Executive Director in September increased policy numbers, the Groups 31May2016 to shareholders on the 2015 along with fellow independent operating profit for the year increased register on 22 April 2016 with an exNon-Executive Directors, Malcolm Le to 126.1m 2014: 105.7m.
This is May, Pierre Lefevre and Ian Cormack.
the Companys first dividend for the This growth was as a result of improved year and is subject to shareholder The appointment of four other Nonnew business and renewal volumes as approval at the Annual General Executive Directors was also confirmed well as strong growth in home and car Meeting to be held on 25 May 2016. in September 2015.
Live customer relationship agreement between the policies exceeded 2 million just prior to Outlook major shareholders of the Company, the end of the year and the Group is well As I close my first financial year as Sumit Rajpal and Michele Titi-Cappelli on its way to achieve its goal of insuring Chairman, I am able to report that represent the Goldman Sachs investors 1 in 10 by 2020. current trading is in line with the and Richard Brewster and Edward Boards expectations and means we Fitzmaurice represent the pre-IPO As the Group continues to grow it is begin the current financial year well Founder shareholders.
Gary Hoffman with great pleasure that we welcome positioned to continue with sustained continued as Chief Executive Officer colleagues at the new site in Leicester growth.
The Board remains confident and Richard Hoskins was appointed to the Hastings family.
Centrally located that its strategy to provide refreshingly as Chief Financial Officer: both have with excellent transport links across the straightforward insurance, drive extensive experience in financial Midlands, Leicester is a natural fit for sustainable growth underpinned services and the insurance sector.
the Groups third location in the United by prudent underwriting, combined All Directors bring a wealth of strengths, Kingdom due to the quality and diversity with investment in digital and mobile skills and experience to the oversight of talent available.
channels will deliver enhanced and governance of the Company and shareholder returns for the future.
technology investment The Group has made significant On behalf of the Board I would like to At the time of the IPO two Directors who investment in two new major systems express my thanks to all colleagues had previously represented our pre-IPO for its Broking and Claims platforms.
who continue to work diligently for the major shareholders stood aside.
Along These systems will deliver a step change Group.
It is the knowledge, skills and with the other Goldman Sachs and improvement in the Groups ability to professionalism of all our colleagues Founder representatives, Andrew Wolff interact with customers, improving that make a difference to our customers and Neil Utley helped to guide Hastings customer service and providing up to and enables us to continue to grow the towards its IPO and I thank them for the minute management information.
their contribution over the years.
Iam very pleased to announce that the implementation of the Claims platform As it currently stands the composition was successfully launched in November Mike Fairey of the Board does not yet fully comply last year and the Broking platform is on Non-Executive Chairman with the UK Corporate Governance track to be launched later this year.
Code 2014 the Code in that it 14 March 2016 stipulates at least half the Directors Solvency II preparation and excluding the Chairman should be capital structure independent of the Group.
Hastings During the year the Group continued is intent on becoming fully compliant to develop systems and procedures by the end of 2016. to enable it to comply with Solvency II which came into effect from 1 January In compliance with the Code, I chair the 2016.
Interactions with the regulator Nomination Committee, Malcolm Le May in Gibraltar have been positive and the chairs the Remuneration Committee, Groups insurance company, Advantage Thomas Colraine the Audit Committee Insurance Company Limited, is well and Pierre Lefevre the Risk Committee.
