Section 1: Chairmans Statement Introduction I am pleased to be able, once again, to present shareholders with a strong set of results.
Overall, the Groups performance was good, with the portfolio generating cumulative investment cashflows ahead of our internal forecasts.
The overall quality of the Groups assets, coupled with active management by the Investment Adviser, has enabled the Board to declare an aggregate dividend for the year of 7.30p per share with prudent cash cover, which is in excess of the dividend target of 7.25p per share, and to raise the dividend target for the current financial year to 7.45p per share.
Total shareholder return for the year was 15.4% p. a. on a NAV and dividend basis and 22.5% on a share price and dividend basis, well exceeding our long-term total return target of circa 7.0% p. a.
Portfolio Performance Investments in social and transportation infrastructure projects, The Groups portfolio continues to perform to plan or better, and as consistent with our acquisition strategy, have become increasingly at 31 March 2015 consisted of 101 social and transportation attractive on a risk-adjusted basis as investors seek stable,  projects 93 as at 31 March 2014.
The trend of rising valuations attached to assets generated from the portfolio during the year after rebasing for new bought and sold in the UK secondary market has continued.
Our investments, the disposals and investment distributions, and previous observation that we should maintain a disciplined approach excluding the profit on disposal was 9.6% 2014: 9.5% which to acquisition pricing is now even more vital.
That said, the Group reflects not only the unwinding of the discount rate, but also a series has still been able to source attractive new investments in the UK, of value-accretive acquisitions, complemented by value Australia, France, Holland and Ireland in the year.
enhancements across the portfolio including a reduction in insurance premia.
Financial Results and Performance Financial Results The Group is prepared to consider the sale of specific investments The Company has prepared its accounts for the year to 31 March 2015 when opportunities arise to realise value that may not be delivered in accordance with EU IFRS, including IFRS 10 and the Investment by continued ownership.
At the time of the Companys November Entity amendments, which is consistent with the prior year.
These Interim results, we announced the intention to dispose of a require the Company to prepare IFRS financial statements which do significant investment from the Groups portfolio.
This sale, relating not consolidate the project company subsidiaries.
to the Groups 56% stake in Colchester Garrison, concluded in February 2015.
A profit was generated, after costs, of 50.6m over Profit before tax was 231.0m 2014: 153.8m and earnings per the Directors' valuation of 57.7m as at 31 March 2014. share were 18.6p 2014: 13.1p.
The Group began the financial year with four projects under Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital construction, comprising 7% of the portfolio by value and it has repayments, profit on disposal and fees was 182.2m subsequently acquired four new projects in their construction phase.
After Group costs, operating cashflows of 162.6m One investment the Royal School of Military Engineering PPP more than covered the 102.5m distributions paid in the year.
project achieved construction completion in Q1 2015.
This results in seven projects in construction 5% of the portfolio by value as at The Companys Ongoing Charges Percentage was 1.14% 31 March 2015.
Valuation and Net Asset Value The Company raised a total of 75.7m before expenses during the As in previous periods, the Investment Adviser has prepared a year through two value-accretive tap issues totalling 54.0m new fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at shares in June and December 2014.
The Group continues to benefit from its 150m revolving credit The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, facility which expires in May 2016 but which we expect to renew in the economic assumptions adopted, and the discount rates applied.
the Companys current financial year.
The Directors have again taken independent third party expert advice on the valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser, which More details of the financial results are set out in Section 2.4 concluded that the valuation was appropriate.
Operational and Financial Review, under the heading Accounting.
4 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 The Directors have approved the valuation of 1,732.2m for the I am pleased to report a portfolio of 101 investments as at 31 March 2015, which includes 22.5m of future investment obligations.
This compares with strong set of results the 1,639.1m as at 30 September 2014 including 8.1m of subscription culmination of a focused obligations, and 1,500.6m as at 31 March 2014 including 5.1m of subscription obligations.
An analysis of the increase in the valuation Acquisition Strategy, betteris detailed in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio.
than-planned portfolio The net asset value NAV per share was 136.7p at 31 March 2015 2014: 126.7p.
After taking into account the 1.87p per share fourth performance, an uplift in quarterly interim distribution, the NAV per share at 31 March 2015 was valuations due to strong 134.8p: an increase of 9.5% over the comparable figure as at 31 March 2014.
This increase is attributable to higher valuations of infrastructure market demand, and the investments, the profitable realisation of one large investment, the good operational performance of the portfolio, issuance of shares at a profitable disposal of a premium to NAV and value-accretive new investments.
Acquisitions and Disposals The Group made nine new investments and 10 incremental Distributions acquisitions during the year for a total consideration of 221.4m In the Companys previous annual results, published in May 2014, I which includes associated future investment commitments.
Of announced the Boards intention to move to paying interim dividends particular note, the Group was pleased to make an investment in the to shareholders on a quarterly basis.
This commenced with the first Priority Schools Building Programme North East Batch, the first quarterly interim dividend of 1.81p per share declared in July 2014, project to close that has been procured under that programme.
followed by the second of 1.81p per share declared in November Further details are set out in Section 2.4 Operational and Financial 2014, and the third of 1.81p per share declared in February 2015. Review and Note 13 to the financial statements.
As a result of this strong set of results, the Board was pleased to Despite an increasingly competitive environment, the Investment announce on 14 May a fourth quarterly interim dividend for the year to Adviser has been able to develop and convert a good pipeline of 31 March 2015 of 1.87p per share, which will be paid on 30 June 2015. potential acquisitions, sourced through a wide network of This results in an aggregate dividend for the year of 7.30p per share, in relationships and sometimes secured on an exclusive basis.
During excess of the published target of 7.25p, and representing a 2.8% the year the Investment Adviser participated in 12 auctions but was growth on the prior year of 7.10p.
As with the prior interim dividends, successful in only two relating to four investments in aggregate.
In a scrip dividend alternative is being offered to shareholders.
unsuccessful auction processes, the winning bids were at prices which would not, over the investment period of ownership, have In light of the Groups good portfolio performance, the Directors have been value accretive to the Group.
also raised the dividend target for the current financial year to 7.45p per share, an increase of 0.05p from prior guidance of 7.40p.
The Since the financial year end, the Group has made two incremental Company has grown its dividend each year since launch in 2006. acquisitions of a further 40% interest in each of Salford & Wigan BSF Schools Phase 1 and Salford & Wigan BSF Schools Phase 2, with It remains our intention to pay quarterly interim dividends for this a combined investment value of 16.0m.
In addition, the Group, financial year and to continue to offer a scrip dividend alternative.
through its bidding consortium, has recently been awarded preferred Further details of the scrip dividend alternative will be published in bidder status in respect of 14 primary care facilities to be built across July when the first quarterly interim dividend is declared.
Ireland under a single 25-year PPP contract: financial close is anticipated to take place at the end of the calendar year.
Risks and Uncertainties As I observed last year, the growth in the pool of PFI PPP An investment opportunity is being appraised presently which has been investments in the UK has slowed considerably due to significantly offered for sale by an investment fund managed by the Investment lower levels of procurement, while the overall appetite displayed by Adviser.
Therefore, in accordance with prior practice and good investors has risen with the growing maturity of the asset class.
As a governance, a Buyside Committee has been established, a member of consequence, supply-demand dynamics have moved in favour of which is a Director of the Company.
Further information will follow in vendors and this has driven up prices, thus reducing returns.
This due course should the transaction progress, and as previously, prior trend has been particularly evident in competitive auctions and, shareholder approval will be sought to ratify the transaction.
more recently, in disposal initiatives such as the one that led to the sale of the Groups interest in Colchester Garrison and, post year As explained above, the Group sold its 56% investment in Colchester end, in Fife Schools.
Garrison in the year for net consideration of 108.3m.
Since the period end, the Groups interest in Fife Schools has been sold for 7.3m.
Both transactions resulted from a disposal process initiated by a co-shareholder.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 5 Section 1: Chairmans Statement continued The Investment Advisers response to the supply-demand imbalance As noted in the Companys Interim Report in November, the OECDs has been to maintain focus on the agreed Acquisition Strategy, to initiative to address base erosion and profit shifting BEPS is a key use its network of industry contacts to source new opportunities and tax priority of governments around the world.
A consultative process to keep its pricing discipline.
Where appropriate, overseas is being undertaken by the OECD, with a number of representatives opportunities continue to be pursued, principally in Europe, from the infrastructure sector highlighting a risk of a significant Australia and Canada, but only where the risk-reward characteristics adverse impact to the tax deductibility of the interest costs from the are consistent with those which underpin the existing investment debt used to finance projects unless suitable concessions are made portfolio.
The Group has selectively increased its bidding activity for for infrastructure.
The Board and the Investment Adviser are infrastructure assets in their construction phases, sourced through monitoring developments and contributing to the consultation established relationships and available at attractive returns.
Currently, it is too early to assess how or if with this activity and the successes in the period, the Groups the implementation of changes from this initiative will affect the exposure to investments in their construction phase has declined Group or its investments.
over the financial year from 7% to 5% of the portfolio by value, as projects have become operational.
Corporate Governance and Regulation Frank Nelson was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2014.
As a former The Groups current investments are in project companies whose key Finance Director of Galliford Try plc, he has considerable experience revenue risk is that of deductions from the availability or unitary in the construction, contracting and infrastructure sectors, payment made by the public sector client under the concession complementing the skills and experience of the other Directors, all of contract.
Over the year, through hands-on, active asset management whom are non-executive and independent.
oversight, performance deductions that have been made under the contracts have been borne almost exclusively by subcontractors.
The number of Directors has been increased partly to facilitate succession planning.
John Hallam and I have now served nine years In the UK PFI health sector, we are aware of some stringent as Directors of the Company and, whilst the Board still believes we interpretation of contract terms on certain projects relating to are independent, we will both retire from the Company by no later building regulations, leading to material unitary payment deductions.
The precise dates of our respective retirements These deductions are often disputed, requiring time and money to from the Board of Directors will be managed to ensure an orderly, achieve a resolution through processes which can leave the value of timely and seamless handover of responsibilities.
Whilst we do not have such a situation in the portfolio currently, we are learning from the experiences of others.
As in previous years and consistent with best practice, all the The Investment Adviser does not currently believe the risk to be Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the widespread.
A recent note from Moodys Investors Service accords forthcoming AGM on 21 July 2015. with this view, but a watching brief is in place.
The Groups investment assumption remains that PFI contracts are both fair and balanced in In February 2015, the formal triennial review of Directors protecting the interests of the respective parties.
remuneration was undertaken by Trust Associates, an independent consultant.
The report concluded that there had been a marked uplift The Group seeks investments in project companies which are in investment company board remuneration since the time of the last serviced by reliable and experienced, third party operators.
The size and complexity of a company has a significant there is always a risk that some may underperform or, in extremis, go impact on remuneration levels, as does the work load and time out of business, diversification of service partners provides a commitment of directors, which has also increased for this Company measure of mitigation.
Further details are contained in Section 7 Directors Remuneration Report, together with the Directors As reported, the operational performance of the investment portfolio remuneration policy and recommendations for the coming year, overall is good.
However, with a sizeable portfolio, it is inevitable which will be included in resolutions for shareholder approval at the that issues will arise and a small number of the project companies in forthcoming AGM.
which the Group invests are subject to operational challenges: none though are considered material at portfolio level.
In conjunction with the Trust Associates review of the Directors remuneration, the consultant performed an evaluation of the The Investment Advisers team closely monitors each project, effectiveness of the Board.
The report remarked that the Board, as a attends Board meetings and client liaison discussions, and takes whole, and its Committees are functioning effectively, that appropriate action to resolve operational issues in a timely manner.
discussions are well informed and give strong challenge to the Investment Adviser, but in an environment of collegiality and mutual Financial and tax regulation continues to change and these can affect trust.
In particular, it commented that the good spread of skills on the Group and its investments.
The Board monitors such changes, the Board had been further enhanced with the appointment of new evaluates the likely impact, and takes advice and acts appropriately Directors with good construction and infrastructure management to ensure that the business remains compliant.
Further details are set out in Section 6 Corporate Governance Statement.
6 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 In September, a full day was set aside by the Board to consider the Outlook overall strategy of the Group.
Discussions were shaped by advice and The growth in investor appetite for infrastructure assets continues insights from advisers actively involved in infrastructure investment.
unabated, driven by attractive risk-return characteristics.
The The acquisition strategy was re-affirmed subject to some changes of Companys shares have consistently traded at a premium to NAV, emphasis which were driven by market conditions, and more details reflecting the Companys strong performance and the current are set out in Section 2.2 Strategy and Investment Policy.
demand from investors for cash covered yield.
In July 2014, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive In this environment, the Company continues to demonstrate its AIFMD came into full force, after the expiry of the transitional ability to source suitable investments for the Group.
The Board has a arrangements period.
The Company has registered as a Guernsey clear strategy which is being executed by a dedicated team of domiciled self-managed non-EEA Alternative Investment Fund.
The professionals possessing the necessary skills, knowledge and depth Company implemented changes to processes and procedures to of relationships with market participants to succeed.
enable the Board to fulfil its prescribed role in the supervision of investment decisions and the management of risk across the Group.
The Group and its Investment Adviser have a proven track record Monitoring of risk within the Group is now carried out by the Risk of being reliable counterparties, capable of evaluating acquisition Committee of the Board.
Further details on the governance of the opportunities efficiently and then having the finance and Company is set out in Section 6 Corporate Governance Statement.
resources available to execute a purchase on time and without We have also included a Risk Committee report for the first time, set last-minute renegotiation.
out in Section 8 Risk Committee Report.
New investment opportunities that meet our requirements are Following The Financial Reporting Councils proposal of best expected to come to market this year, including both single and practice, the audit work for the Company was tendered during the portfolio opportunities.
Despite the intensity of competition, the year.
Mr J Hallam, as Chair of the Audit Committee, and Mrs S Evans, prospects remain good for the Group to make further value-accretive together with representatives from the Investment Adviser, met in investments in the current financial year, albeit the rate of growth in December with four firms who were invited to tender for the audit.
Following an Audit Committee review of the tender submissions, the Committee members resolved to recommend the continued Greater focus is being placed on seeking opportunities outside the appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited KPMG deeming UK, and on investments which are in their construction phases, as we this course of action to be in the best interests of shareholders, given believe they offer potentially the best value.
That said, through the strength of the KPMG audit team and a lack of demonstrable established relationships in the UK, we are still able to secure new differentiation shown by the challengers.
Finding value at auction is difficult at present, but participation provides valuable data and insight into During the year, I held a number of one-on-one meetings with competitors pricing strategies.
shareholders and was able to discuss governance as well as the Companys strategy and performance.
Good and effective With the recent acquisitions funded from the Groups revolving credit communication with shareholders is enormously important to the facility, the Company currently has a net funding requirement of Board, which receives regular reports from the Investment Adviser 8.0m.
Dependent on further acquisitions, the Directors will and the Companys broker, both of whom participate in many consider the timing and quantum of further tap issuance.
meetings with existing and prospective investors.
As I noted in my introduction, off the back of the strong set of results, Market Developments the Board is pleased to revise its guidance to 7.45p per share As observed previously, the procurement of new infrastructure aggregate dividend for the year to 31 March 2016 up from the assets in the UK has diminished over the last two years.
Any previous published guidance of 7.40p per share.
improvement to the rate of procurement is likely to take time to materialise as the new Government determines its infrastructure priorities and how to finance them.
Against this backdrop, it was pleasing therefore that the Group secured an investment in the first Priority Schools Building programme project in March 2015.
Further such opportunities may arise in the current financial year.
Graham Picken Outside the UK, procurement of new infrastructure assets with Chairman investment characteristics suitable for the Group continues in a 20 May 2015 number of countries including Australia, Canada, France, Holland, and the USA.
The Group has made new investments in the year in Australia, France, Holland and Ireland, and has bid unsuccessfully for opportunities in Canada.
We believe the Group is well positioned to capitalise on these new procurement programmes mindful that certain investments require an appropriate discount rate premium for political, fiscal and currency risks.
H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015 7 Highland Schools, Scotland 8 H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2015
