Chairmans Statement RETURN OF CAPITAL AND CHANGE OF INVESTMENT POLICY The most significant event for your Company during 2015 occurred on 1 December 2015 when BlueCrest, and the Boards of Directors of each of the relevant BlueCrest Funds or General Partner, where appropriate, announced that the BlueCrest Funds would embark upon a programme to return the capital managed in those funds to external investors.
The effective date on which this return of capital began was 4 January 2016, and so your Board had little time in which to consider the best way to shape the future of the Company.
However, we did act quickly, immediately seeking feedback from investors on the options for the future of the Company.
It became apparent that there was appetite for a continuation of the Company or a rollover into a listed, vehicle.
Accordingly, we sought expressions of interest from potential investment managers to take over the management of the Companys assets.
30 expressions of interest were reviewed by your Board.
Two directors met with thirteen potential new managers in London in mid December, with five presenting to the whole Board prior to the end of the year.
Highbridge Capital Management, LLC Highbridge was identified as our preferred option, and, it was decided that the Company should, if possible, continue in order to avoid the costs associated with forming and listing a new vehicle.
A specialist firm was engaged to carry out operational due diligence on Highbridge whilst in parallel a proposed new investment management agreement was negotiated.
After receiving and reviewing the operational due diligence report, we were able to announce Highbridge as the proposed manager for the continuing company on 14 January 2016, only six weeks after the announcement from BlueCrest.
Detailed proposals setting out the proposed change of the Companys investment policy, the option for investors to receive cash for their shares and the appointment of Highbridge were sent to shareholders in a circular dated 8 February 2016.
These proposals were passed by a very large majority and Highbridge was appointed on 29 February 2016, with the Companys first investment into the sterling share class of Highbridge Capital Corporation HCC being made with effect from 1 March 2016.
On the same date, the Company made its first distribution of cash 1.54 per Sterling share and $1.51 per US Dollar share to shareholders who had elected to redeem.
Taking account of the provision for exiting shareholders entitlements, the continuing Company had a net asset value of approximately 260 million.
As detailed in Note 16, the Company has to date received approximately 557m and US$34m from the BlueCrest funds, substantially all of which has been distributed to exiting shareholders or invested into HCC.
Page 4 v. 2.7 The proposals, once voted upon, also gave the Directors the power to compulsorily convert US Dollar shares into Sterling Shares.
Since the size of the US Dollar share class remaining after taking into account the elections to redeem was sub-optimal in size, the Directors chose to exercise their power, contained in the Companys Articles, to convert the US Dollar shares remaining in issue on 29 February 2016 into Sterling shares.
Unfortunately, the calculation of the conversion ratio to be applied was erroneous, with too many Sterling shares being notified to the relevant investors and to the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange.
When the Company identified and announced this error, dealings in the Companys shares were suspended on 7 March 2016, pending resolution of the error.
The error was corrected to the UK Listing Authoritys satisfaction on 11 March 2016 and the suspension lifted on 14 March.
We deeply regret this error and the inconvenience it has caused to investors, but wish to point out that the error and its correction have not caused any loss to the Company or shareholders.
ADVANTAGES OF HIGHBRIDGE AS INVESTMENT MANAGER The Board believes that the appointment of Highbridge as investment manager has many advantages to the Company and its shareholders, as was more fully explained in the circular to shareholders on 8 February 2016.
These advantages may be summarised as being Lower overall fees than have been incurred previously: The Highbridge multi strategy fund the Underlying Fund, into which the Company invests has historically achieved higher returns with lower volatility than the Company has previously achieved although of course past performance is no guide to that in the future : The structure of the Underlying Fund is simpler and more transparent.
Highbridge has assumed the role of the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM for purposes of the EUs AIFM Directive, thereby enabling the Company to possibly raise more capital in the future, with the prospect of diluting the ongoing charges ratio for investors.
DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT The new articles of association adopted by shareholders on 24 February, introduce a more flexible approach to discount management.
In addition to a quarterly tender offer to buy back shares, which is entirely at the Directors discretion, a continuation resolution must be put to shareholders at the annual general meeting in 2021, and, subject to the passing of that resolution, every five years thereafter, REVIEW OF 2015 I am pleased to report another year of positive performance for your Company, with the Sterling share price and Net Asset Value per share rising by 3.8% and 2.8% respectively despite some challenging conditions.
Page 5 v. 2.7 This performance during 2015 was achieved in markets which endured very low, or even negative, interest rates, very sharp shifts in the value of bond and equity markets caused by investors alternating risk on and risk off attitudes, and some quite challenging conditions especially in the second half of the year.
Throughout the year the Company followed its previous investment policy of investing substantially all of its assets into AllBlue Limited.
More insight into how this policy performed is given in the AllBlue Investment Management Report on page 79.
Since inception of the Company this, previous, investment policy has brought annualised net asset value returns of 6.9%, at an annualised standard deviation of only 1% and a correlation to the FTSE 100 Total Return Index of only 0.1.
Returning to look at 2015, the discount of the Companys share price to its published NAV, for both share classes, remained in the 4% to 4.5% range for the first half of the year, before declining steadily in the second half of the year to just above 5%.
Under the previous discount management provisions, a continuation vote for the Sterling share class was triggered in November 2015, and in December for the US Dollar share class.
However, the news of BlueCrests planned return of capital arrived before any continuation votes could be organised and, instead, suitable resolutions were passed at the class meetings held on 24 February 2016 to remove the need for them.
During 2015, the Company continued its policy of carrying out market purchases of its own shares in order to reduce the discount which might otherwise arise and to enhance the net asset value for remaining shareholders.
In total the Company purchased Sterling shares with a value of approximately 46m and US Dollar shares worth some $5m, resulting in gains of approximately 2.6m 0.7 pence per share and $270,000 0.9 cents per share for the Sterling and US Dollar classes respectively.
SUCCESSION As indicated in my Chairmans statement last year, the Board has given considerable thought to succession planning.
The appointment of Miss Sarita Keen to the Board on 3 June 2015 was the first step in a planned orderly refreshing of the Board which was to see John Le Prevost leave in 2015, followed by myself in 2016 and Paul Meader in 2017.
The news from BlueCrest and the subsequent work required to change the Companys investment policy and Manager, resulted in your Board asking Mr Le Prevost to stay on a little longer, until the Company had stabilised under its new mandate.
I am delighted to say that he agreed to stay on, and his contribution and insight has been invaluable throughout the process.
He stepped down from the Board on 27 April 2016, and we wish him well for the future.
He has of course effectively been replaced on the Board by Miss Keen, but the search for a replacement Chairman has recently been restarted after being suspended whilst the Company was restructured.
I am hopeful that a new Chair will be found in time for his, or her, election to be put to shareholders at the Page 6 v. 2.7 forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2016, and if so I will step down at that time.
Otherwise I will continue to serve until a suitable replacement is found later in the year.
Next year, Mr Meader plans to step down, again most probably at the time of the 2017 AGM, and this will complete the succession plan I originally outlined last year, on time.
Your Board will then comprise individuals appointed in each of the calendar years 2014 to 2017, inclusive, ensuring that appropriate levels of corporate knowledge and history remain on the Board whilst avoiding the possibility of incumbents reaching their time limits simultaneously.
In addition to the succession plans detailed above, as a result of the decision by BlueCrest to return capital to third party investors, including the Company, Andrew Dodd, who sat on the Board of Directors of the Company as an employee of BlueCrest chose to resign as a director of the Company on 3 February 2016 in advance of the proposed change of investment policy.
I would like to thank Mr Dodd for his contribution to the Company over the last eight years.
LOOKING FORWARD The uncertainties in the global economic and political backdrop persist and investment markets remain both cautious and volatile.
In such an environment, the need for a solid and reliable cornerstone to investment portfolios remains as important as ever.
Further, with the outlook for all asset classes remaining uncertain, that cornerstone needs to be able to generate returns regardless of the direction of movement in both bonds and equity markets.
Following a very thorough search, your Board believes that Highbridge Capital Management has the credentials and the proven capability to achieve these goals.
Their track record speaks for itself and we look forward to a long and fruitful relationship with Highbridge on your behalf.
Richard Crowder Chairman Page 7 v. 2.7
