Strategic Report Group Chairmans Statement We enter 2016 with a clear strategy and with a plan for its implementation already well under way.
Our diversified business model and balance sheet strength form the foundation for our future progress, and position HSBC well to deal with todays challenging economic and financial conditions.
2015 was marked by some seismic shifts in global economic conditions, most notably the continuation of a sharp decline in commodity and oil prices, in part attributable to growing concerns over Chinas slowing economic growth.
As a consequence, monetary policy remained accommodative throughout the major developed economies and key currency interest rates remained at historically low levels.
Fiscal priorities continued to focus on controlling spending, an emphasis replicated in the private sector as weak revenue growth persisted in many industries.
Against this backdrop, the Groups financial performance in 2015 was broadly satisfactory, with reported profit before tax rising 1% to $18.9bn.
On the adjusted basis used to measure management and business performance, profit before tax of $20.4bn was 7% lower than that achieved in 2014, driven by higher costs and credit charges.
Earnings per share of $0.65 compared with $0.69 in 2014.
Sound management of capital, accelerated run-off of legacy books and shrinking the balance sheet in areas that can no longer support the expanded capital requirements now in force, contributed to the common equity tier 1 ratio increasing by 0.8 percentage points to 11.9%.
This capital released from managing the asset base, together with that generated from operations, allowed the Board to approve a fourth interim dividend in respect of 2015 of $0.21 per ordinary share.
This took dividends per ordinary share in respect of the year to $0.51, $0.01 higher than 2014.
Total dividends in respect of 2015 amounted to $10.0bn, $0.4bn higher than in respect of 2014.
In approving the dividend increase, the Board noted that prospective dividend growth remained dependent upon the long-term overall profitability of the Group and delivering further release of less efficiently deployed capital.
Actions to address these points are core elements of the Investor Update provided last June.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 6 Group Chairmans Statement environment and the considerable reshaping Sound progress on strategic initiatives necessitated by regulatory changes.
Global Banking The Strategic Report highlights delivery to date and Markets and Retail Banking and Wealth against the strategic objectives laid out in last Management, in particular, have made significant Junes Investor Update.
changes to their business models and are now When assessing management performance during beginning to see the benefits.
Commercial Banking continued to leverage the value of the Groups 2015, outside of the financial results, the Board took particular account of the following aspects.
international network and product capabilities.
Global Private Banking, chastened by the exposure The successful negotiation of a majority stake of historical failings in Switzerland, accelerated in a new nationally licensed securities joint-venture disposal of a number of customer portfolios as in mainland China is the culmination of more it refocused its business model on core customer than a decade of seeking out an appropriate segments within a fully transparent operating model.
platform through which to participate in the Across all businesses, the Board recognised countrys fast-developing securities markets.
a heightened emphasis on customer focus, which Once final approvals have been received, we permeated recruitment, training, product design believe this will establish a landmark opportunity and incentives.
This is essential to the restoration for HSBC to contribute to the development of of trust.
Finally, and underpinning the above, we made further progress embedding the standards now Our three major businesses generated higher expected to protect customers and the financial revenue, notwithstanding the uncertain system from bad actors and financial crime.
We are, however, not yet where we need to be.
There is still economic environment and the considerable more investment to make with ever greater urgency reshaping necessitated by regulatory changes as more and more activity takes place digitally through multiple channels and via increasingly sophisticated mobile devices.
HSBCs determination During 2015, the Group maintained, reinforced and to address emerging risks and identify bad actors broadened its leadership position in all aspects of remains resolute.
The Board has made it one of its the internationalisation of the renminbi.
This position top priorities to oversee and ensure managements has been built over the past five years to establish delivery of the necessary enhancements to a highly competitive platform to service Chinas customer and transaction screening systems.
international trade and investment flows as it pursues the financial liberalisation and outgoing The regulatory landscape has investment priorities laid out in the recent 13th become clearer five-year plan.
The recent highly successful State visit to the UK, following an equally successful The second half of 2015 saw completion of some Economic and Financial dialogue in China, served to of the most important and complex initiatives illustrate the huge potential for mutually beneficial undertaken to repair the fault lines that contributed cooperation between the UK and China from which to the global financial crisis.
International agreement HSBC is uniquely positioned to benefit in the realm was reached on the amount of total loss-absorbing of financial services.
capacity that global systemically important banks, such as HSBC, need for orderly resolution, without The disposal of our Brazilian operations, which risks to public funds.
This allowed the Financial is expected to complete shortly, was both timely Stability Board to report to G20 leaders that they and well executed.
This divestment was a key had finalised the tools needed to end too big to fail element of the Boards desire to simplify the Group in the banking sector.
There is still much to do and redeploy capital to geographic areas where to build these tools into national legislative and we have greater competitive strength, most regulatory frameworks: however, this international particularly in Asia.
agreement is an important step forward towards Our three major businesses generated higher finally settling the capital base against which we revenue, notwithstanding the uncertain economic can assess our target returns.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 7 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Group Chairmans Statement There is now broad agreement that the Board changes implementation of the suite of regulatory reforms Subsequent to the changes announced with our introduced post-crisis has made the financial system interim results, we have made further changes to more resilient.
Accordingly, public policy priorities the Board.
Safra Catz stepped down from the Board are now focusing on harnessing this greater strength at the end of 2015 and Sir Simon Robertson, our and resilience to support economic growth, which Deputy Chairman, and Rona Fairhead will retire we welcome.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Concentration within the current regulatory agenda is increasingly on new and emerging risks There is now broad agreement that the and vulnerabilities.
There is growing industry participation in dialogue around these emerging implementation of the suite of regulatory threats, most notably regarding cyber risk, the reforms introduced post-crisis has made changing liquidity dynamics resulting from more market-based finance and financial exclusion the financial system more resilient stemming from excessive risk aversion.
Likewise, addressing the root causes of the Safra served on the Board for nearly eight years misconduct issues that have bedevilled our industry while Simon and Rona are HSBCs longest serving in recent years has led to growing cooperation non-executive Directors, having served for close to arising out of the multiplicity of joint working groups 10 and 12 years, respectively.
Over their respective and enquiries that have examined the most serious periods of service, they have made invaluable failings.
2016 sees the introduction of the new contributions to the Group, not least during the Senior Managers Regime in the UK, which will global financial crisis, for which the Board is reinforce individual responsibility and accountability, extremely grateful.
Their combined expertise and which we welcome.
experience in matters of governance, audit and Also in the UK, 2015 saw further clarity given to risk, remuneration, technology, and international the operation of the ring-fenced bank structure business affairs has been invaluable to HSBC and a welcome announcement of a reduction in and they will, upon their retirement, be sorely the scope and rate of the bank levy going forward.
On behalf of shareholders and the Board, I want to take this further opportunity to recognise It is too early to say whether this amounts to a new their immense contributions to HSBC.
understanding between the industry and the public, but it is encouraging that the industry is once again The Board was delighted to announce the gaining a voice at a time of great economic and appointments of Paul Walsh and Henri fide Castries geopolitical uncertainty.
We can only fulfil our as independent non-executive Directors.
Paul essential role if we have regained trust, a fact that joined the Board on 1 January 2016 and Henris is now fully understood.
appointment takes effect from 1 March 2016.
Paul Walsh was Group CEO of Diageo plc between Review of headquarters location 2000 and 2013.
Under his leadership, Diageo was As we announced last week, the Board concluded refocused from a diversified food, beverage and its review of domicile alternatives and decided hotels conglomerate into one of the worlds leading unanimously to remain headquartered in the UK.
In building As we evaluated jurisdictions against the specified this position, Paul took Diageo from a largely criteria, it became clear that the combination of European and US business into emerging markets our strategic focus on Asia and maintaining our hub and to global leadership through the acquisition of in one of the worlds leading international financial many of the worlds leading brands.
centres, London, was not only compatible, but Henri fide Castries has more than 25 years of offered the best outcome for our customers and international experience in the finance industry.
This decision was taken after some Henri has been Chairman and Chief Executive 10 months of careful analysis and assessment Officer of AXA, one of the worlds leading global of geopolitical, economic, regulatory and financial insurance and asset management companies since factors.
Advice was taken from internationally April 2010 after serving as Chairman of its respected experts and from leading financial Management Board from May 2000. advisers.
After considering all the relevant factors, the Board concluded that having our headquarters Their international experience and track record in the UK and our significant business in Asia Pacific in leading the reshaping of growing businesses, led from Hong Kong, delivers the best of both including undertaking business portfolio worlds to our stakeholders.
The completion of this realignments, will be of great value to the Board as review closes out one of the 10 strategic actions we address the opportunities and challenges ahead.
set out at our Investor Update last June.
HSBC HOldInGS plC 8 Group Chairmans Statement There is a real possibility of meaningful stimulus Looking back our 150th anniversary for the global economy to come from further trade In 2015, HSBC marked its 150th anniversary by liberalisation initiatives such as the Trans-Pacific recognising its staff for their essential contributions Partnership agreement, which was signed earlier through the ages, and its customers for their shared this month.
As we enter the next The global focus on infrastructure development, period of our history, I want to reiterate these most notably the Belt and Road initiative in China messages of gratitude and underline our recognition and the Juncker plan in Europe will expand public that such commitment and loyalty have to be earned.
HSBC has also always recognised its responsibilities Similarly, the agreements reached on climate change to the communities it serves and so in this special year committed $150m of additional funding at the recent COP21 conference in Paris will require further significant infrastructure renewal.
They to community projects around the world over three years.
will also greatly expand the market for sustainable financing options such as green bonds where HSBC We also wanted to identify a distinctive cause with is a leading participant.
Reinforcing this position, global significance to mark our special anniversary.
the Group recently committed $1bn to a green bond portfolio to fund projects in sectors such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, clean We enter 2016 with a clear strategy and with transportation and climate change adaption as much of the Groups required reshaping well as SME financing in sectors such as public transport, education and healthcare.
completed or under way Technology advancements in financial services are broadening access, improving customer service and We were delighted, therefore, to announce a lowering the costs of service delivery.
At the same partnership with Cancer Research UK to support time, the amount of data held digitally is exploding, the scientific leaders of tomorrow through a reinforcing the need to bolster cyber security.
There $25m contribution towards the development is an urgent public policy need to clarify how and construction of the Francis Crick Institute.
responsibility is to be shared, given the growing This state-of-the-art biomedical research facility number of routes through which customers can will open in the heart of London in 2016 and support more than 1,200 scientists, collaborating to tackle authorise movement of money from their accounts or the sharing of data within these accounts.
the diseases that pose the greatest threat to humanity cancer, heart disease, lung disease We enter 2016 with a clear strategy and with much and infectious diseases, including HIV and malaria.
of the Groups required reshaping completed or under To mark HSBCs support, 150 PhD students, way.
Our 264,000 staff, like their predecessors, went the extra mile consistently throughout 2015 to meet selected from across the world, will have the opportunity to conduct vital research at the the demands placed on them by our customers, regulators and the public.
I want to place on the new institute.
record the Boards appreciation of that commitment and our gratitude for what they have achieved to Looking ahead make HSBC fit for the next 150 years.
Current market conditions are inevitably concentrating attention on the risks that exist within the global economy.
It is, however, important also to recognise again the resilience that our diversified business model and balance sheet strength provide, as well as noting the many counterbalances that should help to underpin the global economy.
Douglas Flint Chinas slower economic growth will undoubtedly Group Chairman contribute to a bumpier financial environment, but 22 February 2016 it is still expected to be the largest contributor to global growth as its economy transitions to higher added value manufacturing and services and becomes more consumer driven.
This transition is driving our focus on the Pearl River Delta as a priority growth opportunity given its concentration of high tech, research focused and digital businesses.
HSBC HoLDinGS pLC 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
