Governance and directors report Chairmans statement Committed to highest standards of corporate governance Dear shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the governance section of the 2015 Annual Report which sets out the boards governance framework and provides a report of its activities over the past year.
These activities focus on the boards responsibility to create and deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value.
As the Group CEOs review describes, this has been another challenging year for ICAP and the board has led and supported the executive management in the achievement of a number of business and strategic objectives, including the reshaping of Global Broking.
Good progress has been made against the key objectives set by the board and their link to the remuneration strategy is discussed in more detail in the remuneration report.
The objective I wish to focus on is that of culture, the tone from the top.
This was identified by the board as an area of focus for 2014 15.
Although culture can be difficult to define, and even more difficult to measure, there is much value in attempting to do so as culture is a differentiating factor between success and failure Charles Gregson when it comes to commercial performance, employee engagement Chairman and good conduct.
We have defined culture in a broad sense as what we value as an organisation, how we get things done and how we behave doing the right thing at the right time.
As a board we believe that by setting out to further enhance and embed a corporate culture that is clear and consistent on these three points we will not only meet the expectations of our regulators but will also ensure that Culture is a differentiating we have an environment where our people can flourish, where factor between success and governance and controls are respected, where creativity and execution are enabled and encouraged and where outstanding failure when it comes to service and value can always be delivered to our customers.
Many commercial performance, initiatives have been launched during the year as the board has made culture one of the five themes included in the executive employee engagement managements objectives.
I look forward to reporting on some and good conduct.
of the key metrics in the 2016 Annual Report.
To achieve the Groups long-term goal of creating shareholder value, the board recognises that a strong governance framework, internal controls, values and culture, firmly embedded across the organisation, are vitally important.
Since January 2014, I have been based at our London office which has provided me with further insight into the Group and an opportunity to meet on a regular basis with a large number of desk managers, product heads and infrastructure support heads.
I have also visited ICAP businesses in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Jersey City, Johannesburg, Louisville, Manhattan and Shanghai.
We held six board meetings during the period in London or Jersey City, ICAPs largest offices, and the board used this opportunity to meet with members of the GEMG and other senior managers.
The value of the governance framework, and the performance of the board within this, are reviewed annually using an external consultant.
The outcomes of this review, and those of the committees, are detailed within the relevant governance sections but there are a couple of points I would like to highlight here.
48 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The review recognised that the current overlap between the Once again, ICAPs Charity Day was fantastic, raising 8 million for boards priorities and the strategic priorities of the business were more than 200 charities around the world.
I would like to add my indicative of a high-performing board.
Its composition is highly thanks to all those involved in such a tremendous achievement.
rated and the board environment leads to challenging debate This truly does represent the best of ICAPs culture and the and constructive outcomes.
More details of where the money is donated can be found at www.
The evaluation asked the board to consider the impact of any Your board has undergone some changes during 2014 15.
Two of progress and learnings from previous events and a significant improvement in culture was felt to have been made.
Business audit our directors left during the year.
Iain Torrens, the Group Finance Director, left at the end of 2014 to take up a position with TalkTalk reviews have been implemented to assess the control culture and to reinforce the responsibility of management for ensuring controls Group.
As announced last year, John Nixon, who has been with the Group for 16 years, retired at the end of March 2015.
The Groups leadership development programme has focused on ICAPs culture to reinforce the message that of the board, I would like to thank both Iain and John for their significant contributions to ICAP.
Stuart Bridges will be joining the leaders are responsible for communicating and embedding the right culture across the firm.
These are examples of some of the board as the Group Finance Director in September and we look forward to working with him.
initiatives the board has supported in addressing culture.
We recognise, however, that ICAPs reputation is defined by its On behalf of the board, I would like to thank David Ireland for behaviour and we remain vigilant in leading and supporting the stepping up to the role of Interim Group Finance Director.
This embedding of good corporate behaviour within the organisation.
has been an excellent example of succession planning which has One of the important areas of discussion with shareholders is the enabled the board to rely on the finance team to bridge the dividend.
Like many companies, we do not have a formal dividend period since Iains departure.
policy but have adopted a model whereby the interim dividend is I would like to thank the remaining members of the board, Michael, set at 30% of the prior year dividend in order to provide a level of John, Diane, Robert and Ivan for their continuing support, guidance certainty in the market.
The financial year 2014 15 has seen the and high level of engagement with ICAP.
All non-executive difficult market conditions continue, with evidence that certain directors remain independent and committed to their role and markets and clients have changed structurally.
The board has will be standing for re-election at the annual general meeting.
discussed the implications of these changes in coming to its recommendation for a final dividend of 15.4p per share for the year I am pleased to report that the principles and provisions of the 2012 ended 31 March 2015.
If approved, the full-year dividend, UK Corporate Governance Code have been complied with in full including the interim dividend paid in February 2015, will be 22.0p during the year.
In respect of Code provision C. 3.7, which requires and will be covered 1.3 times by trading EPS of 28.7p.
The board external audit contracts to be put out to tender at least every ten feels that this level of dividend supports the strategic objective years, the Company has not retendered within that period but the of building dividend cover and investment in ICAPs growth.
Audit Committee has considered the approach to tendering and details of this are set out in the Audit Committee report.
A change in the UK Listing Authoritys regulations has created an opportunity to review the timing of, and need for, market updates The board has considered the required statement that it considers to shareholders.
The boards view is that, unless there is something the Annual Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and material to report, there is no benefit in producing interim understandable.
The assurance process to support this statement management statements other than for the half year.
has been led by the Audit Committee, on behalf of the board, and details of the key issues considered are included in the committees As we announced in last years Annual Report, we reviewed our report on pages 60 to 62. remuneration policy during the year and a proposal was discussed with some of our shareholders.
These changes to executive On behalf of the board I would like to thank all shareholders for remuneration align to the plans to develop a reward and their continuing support and look forward to meeting those who performance management framework for the Group which will attend the Companys annual general meeting in July.
encourage the right behaviours and incentivise good employee Charles Gregson conduct.
As a result of this consultation, changes were made.
Chairman Although it is recognised that shareholders hold differing views as 19 May 2015 to, for example, the appropriate performance conditions for long term incentive plans, I believe that the policy being proposed takes into account many of the previous concerns expressed by shareholders.
I would like to thank those shareholders who provided feedback in the consultation process.
Details of the policy are given in the remuneration report.
The board recommends its approval at the annual general meeting.
