CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It was another record year for revenue, with net trading revenue This is my first opportunity to ahead by 4.9% at 388.4 million 2014: 370.4 million.
This was address shareholders directly after the impact of the extreme event involving the Swiss franc in January, which I discuss in more detail below: excluding this since I was elected chairman of IG incident, on an underlying basis, revenue was ahead by 8.0% at in October 2014.
Underlying profit before tax was down slightly on the prior year as a result of ongoing investment, as set out to present the results for the 2015 in the Chief Executives statement.
Diluted earnings per share financial year.
was down by 10.5% at 35.99 pence 2014: 40.22 pence : on an underlying basis it was ahead by 2.1% at 41.07 pence.
In January the Swiss National Bank announced, without notice, that it was ceasing intervention in the franc exchange rate.
This caused an unprecedented appreciation in the value of the franc, creating turmoil in the foreign exchange markets and drastically reducing global liquidity in this G10 currency.
This was a salutary reminder, for both industry providers and existing clients, of the potential risks and rewards of trading in the financial markets.
At IG we take very seriously our regulatory and consumer responsibilities on appropriateness tests for prospective clients.
This incident underlines the need for regulators to ensure that regulatory standards are applied robustly and consistently across the industry.
The Swiss franc event provided a sudden real-world stress test for our technology, our risk management procedures and our balance sheet capacity.
Although the resultant negative impact of 27 million, net of recoveries, was significant and disappointing, IG clearly demonstrated its ability to manage through such a so-called Black Swan event while maintaining a robust business that delivers strong cash flows.
Following this, we have reviewed our robust risk management system and learned lessons that we are applying to provide even greater protection for our business and our clients.
Over the past few years IG has set out a clear vision of what it wants to achieve.
Our aim is to become the default choice for active traders globally.
We constantly engage with our clients and carefully consider competitive and regulatory developments.
We continue to see the opportunity to innovate and take an increasing share of a growing global market.
To achieve this, we are building on our award-winning technology suite, broadening the range of products we offer to appeal to sophisticated investors, expanding into further geographic regions and fundamentally improving our mobile and online marketing capability.
This year we achieved a major milestone in IGs development with the launch of an execution-only stockbroking service in the UK.
Towards the end of the year, we launched this service in the Netherlands as the first step in the international roll-out.
Stockbroking, and its link to IGs existing products, has the potential to underpin the future growth of our business.
We will use technology to bring a revolution to a very traditional market through real-time tradeable prices, direct market access, market-leading foreign shares commission rates and a full suite of mobile trading platforms.
This will allow IG to appeal to a much bigger global audience, providing an attractive business opportunity in its own right as well as broadening the understanding and take-up of our core leveraged trading products.
| 8 THE RETIREMENT OF TIM HOWKINS Following these changes, your Board continues to comply After a long and extremely successful career at IG, as both CFO with provision B.
1.2 of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance and CEO, Tim Howkins has informed the Board of his intention Code the Code.
Tims career at IG has spanned 16 years and he has Your Board is committed to continually reviewing its been part of and led extremely dedicated teams which have performance and effectiveness and to ensuring its governance built IG from a single office in London to the global leader remains of the very highest standards.
To enable a substantially it is today.
Although I have only had the pleasure of working refreshed Board to take a thorough view of our performance with Tim for the last year, I would like to express my personal and any changes that may be required, we have embarked gratitude and Im sure I speak for all the employees at IG, past on a multi-year external Board evaluation process.
This year and present, in wishing him every success in the future.
The we conducted a questionnaire-based analysis which will be Board is disappointed to lose somebody with Tims proven followed up with face-to-face interviews with Board members leadership skills but fully understands his decision.
The results were reviewed by the Board, along with the actions from last years internal review.
The introduction of The Board has commenced a thorough search and selection the Board Risk Committee has allowed the Board to increase process for a successor.
Tim will step down as CEO and as the time spent on strategic and operational matters.
a director at the AGM in October and Peter Hetherington, The intention again this year is to put every Board Director, with currently Chief Operating Officer, will assume the role of the exception of Roger and Tim, up for re-election at the AGM, Interim Chief Executive, subject to regulatory approval.
Peter in compliance with paragraph B.
has been a Board member since 2002 and has been integral to the successful development of the company.
I am pleased to REMUNERATION report that Peter has confirmed that he would like to enter the The Remuneration Committee has continued to operate well selection process for the permanent CEO role.
The simplified remuneration scheme introduced in 2013 has proved effective.
Salary increases for executive DIVIDEND directors are in line with those of our people generally.
IG remains highly cash-generative and we have sought to reflect this in the direct cash returns to shareholders.
Last IGS PEOPLE I want to express the Boards great appreciation for the efforts year your Board raised the Ordinary dividend payout ratio to this year of our entire employee base.
In my first year with IG, approximately 70%.
Although statutory earnings this year are I have been struck by the dedication, talent and hard work behind due to the impact of the Swiss franc incident, both our I have witnessed from IG people.
Our people remain our business and the market opportunity remain strong.
In line greatest asset and I want to thank them for their commitment.
with our progressive dividend policy, the Board made clear at the time of the first half results in January our intention to LOOKING FORWARD hold the full-year dividend flat on 2014 at 28.15 pence, and so We have broadened our horizons to bring our offering to a the Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.70 pence.
much wider audience through both product and geographic expansion.
Our new offices in Switzerland and Dubai are in the BOARD very early stages of growth but I am encouraged by the initial There have been a number of changes to the Board this year.
Importantly, they both provide clear evidence of the I was delighted to be elected to lead your Board as Chairman ability of the IG team to deliver in challenging environments of IG in October 2014.
My arrival was of course accompanied and demonstrate our adaptability and desire to continue by the departure of Jonathan Davie, who had been Chairman growing the business.
We have commenced the international of the Board since before the public listing of IG in 2005. rollout of our stockbroking offering and over the next year I Although I didnt work alongside Jonathan for very long, his expect us to expand this into more of our current markets.
His guidance over the years assisted We are investing significant time and effort into improving a the Executive team to grow IG into the global leadership number of our business processes, particularly in the sales, position it holds today.
I would like to express the gratitude of marketing and client-onboarding areas.
This includes work on the Board and the broader IG community for his wise counsel our mobile app strategy and driving value from our investment over the years and wish him every success in the future.
in generic top-level domains gTLDs.
We recognise the need to evolve rapidly in response to the increasing importance of Last years AGM also saw the departure of Martin Jackson.
the internet and mobile devices as the key client interfaces.
Jonathan addressed Martins contribution very eloquently in his statement last year.
Martin was replaced as Chairman of In summary, 2015 was a solid year, both financially and the Audit Committee by Jim Newman.
strategically, but we are not resting on our laurels.
We are clear about our agenda and the team is energised to deliver During 2014 Roger Yates, our Senior Independent Nongrowth and profitability for the future.
Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, confirmed his intention to stand down from the Board after nine years.
We are currently carrying out a search process for his successor, with the intention of conducting Andy Green a smooth handover before Roger departs at the AGM in Chairman October.
We are also seeking an additional Non-Executive 21 July 2015 Director with digital experience.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 9
