ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It has been a record year for ICG, with assets under management at an all-time high due to continued fundraising success.
It has been a record year for ICG, with DIVIDEND AND CAPITAL RETURN assets under management at an all-time The growth in Fund Management Company high due to continued fundraising success.
profits, together with ICGs strong balance Our significant achievements during the sheet, positions the Group well to generate year give the Board confidence in the and realise shareholder value through health of the business and the delivery supporting existing strategies, investing of its strategy.
In July 2014, the Board in new opportunities and returning capital committed to re-gearing the balance sheet to shareholders.
Accordingly, the Board is to between 0.8x and 1.2x by July 2016 recommending, in addition to the ordinary and, with the planned growth of the fund dividend, a capital return of a further 300m management business, increase return on to shareholders.
This follows the 100m JUSTIN DOWLEY equity to over 13%.
We are on track to meet share buyback that was completed in the CHAIRMAN these objectives.
It is proposed that the 300m capital return will be by way of a special dividend, DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY with an associated share consolidation to We have made significant progress in maintain, as far as possible, the comparability transforming the business from being of the share price before and after the predominantly a balance sheet investor special dividend.
The special dividend to becoming a manager of third party and share consolidation will be subject to funds supported by our balance sheet.
shareholder approval at the Annual General This is a journey we began five years ago, Meeting on 15 July 2015.
The ex-dividend, and progress is well advanced.
Successes record and payment dates for the special in the last financial year have included: dividend and the share consolidation factor will be set out in the AGM circular Record fundraising led by our for shareholders.
The Board recommends a final ordinary Improved FMC operating margin with dividend of 15.1p, an increase of 4.9% new strategies contributing to profit.
on the prior year final ordinary dividend.
All direct origination funds investing The Board has decided to maintain the on target.
Impairments back to historical levels The dividend will be paid on 28 July 2015 after the financial crisis.
to shareholders on the register on 12 June 2015.
Balance sheet strengthened with new and existing facilities extending The Board anticipates updating maturity profile.
shareholders on the Groups capital structure plans at the time of its 2016 year The business has grown over the years end results including, subject to market through geographical and product expansion.
conditions and gearing levels, any potential As a result the Groups governance policies further capital return.
and processes continue to evolve to ensure they remain appropriate.
STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS ICG AT A GLANCE year track record Read more on page 9 26 Operating out of 11 countries Read more on page 9 CHANGES TO THE BOARD We are delighted that Kathryn Purves joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 17 October 2014.
Kathryn is Chief Risk Officer of Partnership Assurance Group plc, a FTSE listed provider of non-standard annuities, and has extensive experience in 11 the financial services sector.
Simultaneously, Lindsey McMurray stepped down from the Board to focus on her other roles.
We would like to thank Lindsey for her contribution to the Board and wish her well for the future.
14 This Strategy Report, on pages 2 to 46, has investment strategies been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Read more on page 25 Justin Dowley Chairman Assets under management 21 May 2015 AUM 18bn 2001 2014 Read more on page 24 THE PAST YEAR HAS BEEN Profit before tax A VERY SUCCESSFUL ONE FOR ICG AND MARKS A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS.
178m ordinary Dividend per share 22.0p Read more on page 2 2 3
