2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT W We ha e hav five e e ev volv olved our ed our str strat ategy and pr egy and product oduct por portf tfolio t olio to meet the o meet the needs of our cust needs of our customers omers t toda oday and int y and into the futur o the future e.. Dan OConnor Dan OConnor Chairman Chairman Responding to change in Poland and Slovakia, which will impact Group INTRODUCTION profi t growth adversely in the short term.
Addressing Welcome to our 2015 Annual Report and my fi first the evolution of regulation and competition will remain statement as Chairman.
2015 was a year of mixed a continuing challenge.
We made great strides in both Mexico and also IPF Digital, following the acquisition and EVOLVED STRATEGY integration of MCB Finance.
However, increased competition and regulatory developments continued We are operating in a dynamic environment and to have a signifi cant impact on our home credit we have evolved our strategy to cater for that.
We have segmented the business into established I have had the opportunity to visit all our key businesses businesses and growth businesses.
Our established during 2015, where I met our customers, agents and businesses in Poland-Lithuania, the Czech Republic and employees.
I got a great appreciation of the service Hungary are highly cash and capital generative and we we offer on the ground in these markets.
I also got will use these returns to reinvest in our growth businesses the sense of how rapidly they are changing.
which comprise Mexico, Romania-Bulgaria and IPF Digital, where we see signifi cant growth potential.
They will also support delivering further returns to our shareholders.
CHANGING MARKETS We are making signifi cant cost savings by introducing a The development of mobile technology in recent years new sales and service organisational design and agent has resulted in a shift towards more customers looking handheld technology in our home credit businesses, and for loans online and offers an exciting growth opportunity will drive cost-leverage through increasing scale in our for us.
It has also triggered signifi cant growth in digital growth markets.
We believe this will enable us to capture lending competition, which we have felt most acutely signifi cant growth opportunities in the medium term.
in some of our more established European home We expect regulators to remain active in Europe and we credit markets.
are adapting our processes to enable us to anticipate Consumer credit regulation has also increased in Europe change and respond more quickly and effectively.
Our impacting how we, and other credit providers, must now Chief Executive Offi cer, Gerard Ryan, covers regulation, operate.
There were a number of regulatory changes our market place and explains our evolved strategy in announced in 2015, particularly relating to our operations more details on pages 16 to 19.
Strategic Report Int International P ernational Personal Finance plc ersonal Finance plc 3 Ann Annual Repor ual Report and Financial St t and Financial Stat atements 2015 ements 2015 We said farewell to Christopher Rodrigues who retired 2015 RESULTS after eight years as Chairman, and non-executive We delivered a robust financial performance generating director, Nicholas Page.
On behalf of the Board 116.1 million profit before tax and exceptional items, we thank them for their valuable contribution.
despite the challenging environment in some of our More recently, following a review of the cost base of the markets.
On a constant currency basis and before IPF Group head office and as part of a broader collective investment in IPF Digital, underlying profit increased consultation, David Broadbent, Chief Commercial Officer, by 10%.
resigned from the Board on 23 February 2016 and will We made great strides in Mexico where we delivered leave the Company on 7 March 2016 by reason of excellent growth and exceeded our profit per customer redundancy.
We are most grateful to David for his target of MXN$660.
IPF Digital, created following the immense contribution to the Group.
During his sixteen acquisition of MCB Finance in February 2015, delivered years service with IPF and the former parent company, strong growth in our established markets in Finland Provident Financial, David has been a key member of and the Baltic States.
We continued to grow our digital the leadership team which helped establish IPF as a businesses in Poland and Australia, and delivered our listed public company and has developed the business first digital loans to customers in Spain in December we have today.
The Board would like to thank David for 2015.
Our European home credit businesses increased his loyalty, dedication and valued contribution, and underlying profit in challenging trading conditions we wish him every success in the future.
despite a disappointing performance in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
PEOPLE AND VALUES We continued to focus on delivering value to our We continued to invest in our people to ensure we shareholders and completed our fourth share buyback have the capabilities to realise our long-term ambitions, programme since we launched our Strategy for Growth.
particularly through our Leading for Growth and Aspire We also raised our target dividend ratio pay-out rate to development programmes.
We were also recognised for 35% of pre-exceptional post-tax earnings.
The Board is our outstanding commitment to our colleagues and Im recommending a final dividend of 7.8 pence per share.
delighted to report that Provident Hungary was awarded This will bring the full year dividend to 12.4 pence national employer of the year, Provident Mexico was per share and a total pay-out ratio of 33%.
certified as a great place to work and Provident Our 2015 results include an exceptional charge relating Poland was recognised as a top employer.
to Slovakia as a result of legislative changes.
Further Our values of being responsible, respectful and details are set out on page 26.
Looking ahead this straightforward underpin all that we do and 2015 saw new regulation, together with key regulatory changes reinforcement of our ethical standards with our ethics in Poland, will impact our financial results in 2016 and e-learning test extended to include agents.
However, our European home credit business our second annual Group-wide Ethics Week in November.
is cash and capital generative, Mexico is growing well and our digital business is starting to show promise.
The commitment of our people to our customers and growing the business remains central to our success.
I would like to close by saying a heartfelt thank you to BOARD CHANGES all our management, employees and agents for their We strengthened the Group Board and Committee hard work and dedication during the year.
I believe we composition in 2015 to complement our existing talent have the foundations in place to take advantage of and bring fresh perspective and challenge, particularly the opportunities we have identified and modernise in the areas of digital strategy and e-commerce.
the business to manage the continued competitive and regulatory challenges we face.
I look forward to In June, we welcomed Jayne Almond as an independent driving forward our business.
Her extensive financial services expertise and strong background in the areas of consumer finance, marketing and strategy will be extremely valuable in the years ahead.
John Mangelaars joined the Board in July, also as an independent nonexecutive director, and his experience in sales and Dan OConnor e-commerce will be a valuable addition as we seek Chairman to expand our digital lending business and increase our penetration in online sales channels.
He also chairs our Transformation for Growth Committee.
Richard Moat MEETING THE HIGHEST STANDARD IN GOVERNANCE succeeded Nicholas Page as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee in September 2015.
With effect from It is more important than ever to maintain the highest standards of January 2016, in line with good governance practice corporate governance, particularly in an environment of intense to keep committee membership and chairmanship regulatory focus.
As a UK listed company, we comply with the UK refreshed, Cathryn Riley succeeded Tony Hales as Corporate Governance Code and full details are set out in the Remuneration Committee Chair.
Tony will continue Governance section of this report.
in his role of Senior Independent Director.
For more information see page 46
