Chairmans Letter Chairmans Letter the Company.
Of particular attraction was the especially long Dear Shareholders, term duration of cash flows from the Tideway asset which can 2015 was a very successful year for the Company with record be expected to result in a near doubling of the projected levels of investment into a number of projects including duration of the Companys cash flows.
This project is also Thames Tideway Tunnel Tideway in London.
Through the anticipated to support the inflation linkage within the portfolio period, your Company continued to deliver strong underlying more information can be found in the Case Study on page 27 returns from the portfolio.
As at 31 December 2015 58.9 million has been invested into the project.
The combination of portfolio growth and the subscription of new capital saw the Companys market capitalisation reach In October 2015, the Company also made its first investment nearly 1.4 billion at the close of the year, up from c. 1.1 in the United States, investing approximately US$48 million billion at the equivalent time last year.
32 million into an interest bearing subordinated debt instrument underpinned by security over seven operational Dividend Growth PPP military housing projects.
The opportunity was identified The Company was once again able to deliver its dividend as a consequence of the relationship between the Investment target, which for 2015 was 6.45 pence per share or c. 2.4% Adviser and its 50% shareholder Hunt Companies Inc. growth over that in 2014, a rate of growth that has been Hunt : a U. S. corporation specialising in construction and delivered to investors since the Companys inception nine management of infrastructure assets.
Against the backdrop of continuing market volatility, our ability to continue to deliver steady, predictable The capital required to fund the new investments came from a but growing returns to investors remains our prime objective.
mix of the Companys existing cash resources, its corporate debt facility and the proceeds from share issuances in the The Board have once again published a minimum dividend period.
In May 2015, the Company revised the terms of its target, being 6.65 pence per share for 2016, and new corporate debt facility, increasing the facility from 175 million guidance of 6.82 pence per share for the 2017 dividend, an to 300 million on more favourable terms including securing a average increase of c. 2.5% per annum, to give additional 1 reduction in the interest margin by 50 basis points to 175 clarity to shareholders of our future intentions.
basis points and allowing for the option of letters of credit in support of future capital commitments.
The new facility will Investment Activity and Capital Raising become due for renewal in May 2018.
Further details of the The infrastructure assets in which the Company invests renewed facility can be found on page 30. continue to be highly sought after by UK and international investors alike, resulting in continued strong demand for Share issuances undertaken during the year included a 18 mature assets in the infrastructure sectors in which we million tap issue and a major capital raising in November 2015 operate.
Amidst this sustained demand for infrastructure which was significantly oversubscribed and raised 180 investment, we believe our ability to originate and structure million from a mix of existing and new investors.
This new transactions so that the Company is an early stage investor capital was immediately used to reduce the drawn balance of into the majority of its investments is a major differentiating the Companys revolving credit facility and to invest into factor which creates real added value for our shareholders.
We would like to thank The majority of our new investments in 2015 were all shareholders who participated in the offer for their support opportunities originated by our Investment Adviser through and welcome all of our new shareholders to the register.
direct dialogue with public sector and regulatory procuring bodies or through opportunities arising outside of auction Operational Highlights and Portfolio Performance processes.
I am pleased to report that the portfolio has performed very strongly during the period.
While considerable attention has While we will not ignore future auction-based opportunities been paid to new investments during the year, the cash flow this self-origination strategy delivered a particularly successful and valuation performance of the Companys existing portfolio year in 2015 with commitments made to nine infrastructure has also remained very robust.
Net Asset Value growth was investments totalling over 311.7 million 2014: 188.2 strong during the period, increasing 21.5% to 1,290.2 million million : the most capital that the Company has committed in or 2.5% to 130.2 pence on a NAV per share basis.
any twelve month period to date.
In addition, since the end of the period the Company has invested 26.8 million in 1 Future profit projection and dividends cannot be guaranteed.
Projections are based on Westermost Rough offshore transmission project, its sixth of current estimates and may vary in future.
The investment decisions on all project opportunities are made by the Board and are closely scrutinised for their appropriateness and their risk and return profile.
Of special note during the year was the Companys investment commitment into the Tideway project, the 4.2 billion, 25 kilometre super-sewer to be built under the River Thames in London.
The Companys Investment Adviser had a significant role in originating and developing this opportunity which allowed the project to be structured in a way that suited the cash flow profile, risk return and longevity requirements of International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 7 Chairmans Letter Chairmans Letter continued The existing portfolio has continued to perform in line with until detailed rules are finalised in each jurisdiction there will expectations with strong asset management of investments remain a degree of uncertainty over any potential future being fundamental to the Companys overall long-term impact on the Company.
This approach not only encompasses larger-scale project issues such as ensuring that major construction The Board also notes the in-out referendum in respect of UK schemes or project variations are tracking to schedule and EU Membership on 23 June 2016.
It is possible that there budget, but the effective management of day-to-day may be market-related volatility including but not limited to relationships, such as ensuring that the head teachers in our currency, credit and stock markets in the months preceding schools are satisfied with the facility services being delivered the referendum due to uncertainty with respect to the and the terms of the concession contracts are being fulfilled.
The full impact of UK exit is extremely difficult to forecast and we will continue to monitor the outcome and In addition, the Companys investment in Angel Trains has potential impacts which are also outlined in more detail in the been positively impacted in 2015 by recent market activity Risk Report.
involving all main rolling stock companies in the UK rail sector.
The market based evidence that these transactions The Board has also considered the requirements imposed on produced resulted in the Company making a substantial the Company under the Common Reporting Standard CRS.
positive revision to its valuation of Angel Trains, currently our The CRS calls on jurisdictions to obtain information from their fourth largest asset.
As reported at the Companys 2015 financial institutions and automatically exchange that interim result this investment has, taking into account its new information with other jurisdictions on an annual basis.
It sets carrying value, generated a total return of 3.6 times since out the financial account information to be exchanged, the acquisition in 2008. financial institutions required to report, the different types of accounts and taxpayers covered, as well as common due Corporate Governance and Regulation diligence procedures to be followed by financial institutions.
The Company is working with its registrar, Capita, In December 2015 we were pleased to announce the appointment, effective 1 January 2016, of John Le Poidevin to ensure that it is meeting its obligations.
as a non-Executive Director to the Board.
John brings broad In addition to its usual review of risks during the year the financial experience to the role.
He is Audit Committee Chair for a number of listed companies and serves as a nonBoard has considered in more detail the cyber-risks that the Company may face an increasingly topical area of risk for executive director on several plc boards.
He was previously a many businesses.
The Board has also commissioned a partner of BDO LLP, where as Head of Consumer Markets, he developed an extensive breadth of financial, commercial and review of the Companys security protocols in this respect.
As of the date of this report, the Board is required to assess the viability of the Company in light of potential material risks.
The Board continues to monitor a number of possible changes The Board is of the view that the Company is viable over the to the regulatory environment.
Of particular note is the current OECD coordinated effort to align certain international tax rules period selected for viability assessment.
The Viability Statement is included in the Risk Report.
with the aim of preventing tax base erosion and profit shifting BEPs.
The OECD delivered its final recommendations in October 2015 in relation to a number of its areas of focus.
It is Outlook now for individual countries to decide the extent to which they Performance of the portfolio in the early stages of 2016 has implement these recommendations into local legislation.
continued to be positive and we remain confident in the ability of the Company and its Investment Adviser to continue to Of particular relevance to the infrastructure sector are identify and execute new investments in core markets to proposals rules aimed at limiting the tax deductibility of strengthen the Companys portfolio further.
This includes both interest charges on related and third party debt.
We are infrastructure assets within the primary PPP PFI space and encouraged by the OECDs proposals that allow room for regulated infrastructure assets.
individual country authorities to exempt third party debt in relation to public benefit entities as well as proposing the Where new investment opportunities do arise we will continue potential for grandfathering of existing transactions.
However, to be selective in those acquisitions which we bring into the the finer detail of how the proposals will be implemented will portfolio to ensure that they bring long-term value to be decided by individual countries and whilst this is being shareholders.
Further details are provided within the Outlook considered the potential impact remains unknown.
In the UK, section of the Strategic Report.
Her Majestys Treasury has invited consultation on these recommendations to which the Company and its Investment I thank all shareholders for their support of the Company in Adviser have in conjunction with industry participants and 2015 and look forward to continuing to serve them in 2016. forums submitted responses.
In last weeks UK annual Budget, Her Majestys Treasury announced planned implementation of these proposals consistent with the OECD guidance on interest deductibility.
Further consultation is expected in May 2016 with the intention to legislate in time for 1 April 2017.
We will continue to work with our professional advisers and engage with wider industry groups as well as the relevant authorities throughout the consultation and Rupert Dorey implementation stage with an aim to mitigate unintended 23 March 2016 consequences, where possible.
It should be noted though that Chairman International Public Partnerships Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 8
