Chairmans letter: Strong financial and operational performance The Group completed a number of key corporate transactions during 2015 which, taken together, have strengthened both the balance sheet and the Companys pipeline of opportunities.
The business is well-positioned for future growth.
Mike Humphrey Chairman In my first statement as Chairman, I am delighted to The Group continues to build its business in the report that the Group has had its most successful US and at the date of this report has a portfolio year since its formation in terms of financial comprising seven companies or projects based on performance.
Operationally, 2015 was also an intellectual property from our university partners extremely productive year and it was particularly at Columbia, Pennsylvania and Princeton, and a pleasing to see our US operations gain traction as we number of Federal Labs.
We continue to evaluate continue to internationalise the business.
what we consider to be an excellent pipeline of future opportunities from these partners and may seek to Key events selectively add further sources during the year.
The Group completed a number of key corporate Financial performance transactions during 2015 which, taken together, have strengthened both the balance sheet and the In terms of financial performance, the Group recorded Companys pipeline of opportunities.
The business is its strongest year ever with healthy increases in all of well-positioned for future growth.
Net assets, excluding intangibles, increased to 714.3m 2014: 451.3m The first half of the year saw tremendous corporate while profit before tax increased to 75.1m 2014: activity with the Group raising approximately 179m 9.5m.
The Group ended the year with 178.8m of funding through two significantly oversubscribed 2014: 97.3m gross cash and a further 15m of issues of equity, followed by the securing of an undrawn commitment under our new EIB facility.
As additional 30m debt facility from the European ever, it remains important to consider the Group as a Investment Bank EIB.
The Group also took a long-term business where results can fluctuate from strategic stake in Oxford Sciences Innovation plc year to year.
This is particularly relevant given the OSI, an exciting development that will give the current macroeconomic conditions which continue to Group access to a much wider range of scientific cast significant uncertainty over equity markets and research from the University of Oxford than before the global economic situation and broadens its exposure to future Oxford spin-out companies.
Strategy 2015 year in Review 2015: Year in Review The Groups new operational structure, which saw portfolio decision-making within appropriate levels of authority divided into four sectors, Biotech, Cleantech, Healthcare and Technology, during 2014, is working very well and is deepening the sector expertise that we believe is critical for the Groups continued development.
On the whole, companies MARCH MAY JUNE JULY NOVEMBER DECEMBER across the four sectors contributed to the overall strong performance in the year and each sector has a Raised 128m Acquired strategic number of exciting prospects for future growth.
through placing shareholding in and open offer Oxford Sciences Innovation plc & 55m placing 6 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 24609-04 Proof 9 5 April 2016 8:01 PM Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Board changes Summary It was an honour to become Chairman of the Board In summary, 2015 has been a highly productive and in March, having served as a non-executive director successful year which would not have been possible since 2011.
I believe my experience of having led without the continued hard work and dedication of and grown Croda International plc into a major the Groups staff, academic partners and portfolio corporation will be highly relevant to IP Group in the companies.
The Board would like to thank all of our next phase of its development.
Doug Liversidge, who stakeholders for their continued commitment and joined the Board in 2014, has taken on the role of support.
Senior Independent Director while Jonathan Brooks, IP Group is passionate about evolving great ideas into a member of the Board since 2011, has become world-changing businesses and we remain excited Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
about the opportunities that we see for the Group as We were also delighted to welcome Dr Elaine a whole, as it continues to grow and develop.
Sullivan to the Board as a non-executive director in Mike Humphrey July.
Dr Sullivan brings a wealth of experience in the Chairman life sciences and operating in the U. S. with over 25 years international experience in the pharmaceutical industry including roles with Eli Lilly and AstraZeneca.
She is currently Chief Executive Officer of Carrick Therapeutics, a specialist oncology company that she founded in early 2015.
2015: Year in Review MARCH MAY JUNE JULY NOVEMBER DECEMBER Modern Biosciences Secured 30m debt Portfolio company Portfolio company reached the first facility from the European Xeros completed 40m Diurnal floated on AIM, developmentrelated Investment Bank funding round raising 30m milestone with Janssen Portfolio company Oxford US finished the year with Biotech, Inc. A total of Nanopore raised 70m five portfolio companies 8m gross milestone and MinION saw full payments received in 2015 commercial launch 7 Stock Code: IPO www.
