STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to present the Groups Annual INCREASED DIVIDEND Report for the financial year ended 31 December The Directors have recommended a final 2015.
The Group has delivered a good set dividend of 19.5 pence per share 2014: 18.3 of results despite the weak insurance and pence for the year to 31 December 2015. reinsurance rating environment and the The dividend will be paid on 3 May 2016 to further deterioration in the macro-economic shareholders who are on the register as at environment over the year, as well as the 1 April 2016. substantial challenges faced by the UK Employee Benefits business.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 30.6 pence per share, an overall increase of 6% The Group has continued to see good organic and the seventh consecutive year that JLT has revenue growth across most of our businesses, paid an increased dividend.
reflecting the substantial volume of new business won during the year.
The investments we The business has delivered a Total Shareholder GEOFFREY HOWE have made in the business over recent years Return TSR of 167% over the past 7 years, as have been an important contributor to our illustrated in the chart on page 13. continued success.
CORPORATE ACTIVITY HIGHLIGHTS The Group has PERFORMANCE At the beginning of 2015 we established JLT continued to see good Total revenues increased by 5%, or 6% at Specialty as a true Specialty powerhouse constant rates of exchange, to 1.16 billion with following its successful merger with Lloyd & organic revenue growth overall organic revenue growth of 2%.
Partners, with the combined business strongly across most of our positioned to continue to grow.
It delivered a As anticipated, the Groups underlying trading 19% increase in trading profit in the period, with businesses, reflecting profit decreased by 5% to 187.5 million, with revenues up 7%, underlining the commercial underlying profit before tax reducing by 7% to the substantial volume logic of bringing these two businesses together.
As a result, the trading profit of new business won margin reduced from 17.8% to 16.2%.
During the year we also cemented JLT Res status as one of the worlds leading reinsurance during the year.
This reduction in the Groups trading profit brokers, following the completion of its reflects both our investment in building out integration with the Towers Watson Re US our US Specialty operation and the specific platform.
It delivered a 24% increase in its trading challenges faced by our UK Employee Benefits 1,155.1m profit for the year.
business in 2015, largely caused by the impact Total revenue of Government-led changes to the pensions We also completed a successful first full year in landscape and new regulation.
More detail on the build-out of JLT Specialty Insurance Services both of these are set out in the Chief Executives Inc. our Specialty insurance broking presence 5% Review on pages 15 to 17.
I have confidence in the US.
The business has strong momentum Increase on 2014 in the management teams plan to return this and continues to attract some of the very best business to profitable growth.
industry professionals in the market.
Today it has a headcount of around 180 and delivered Excluding the US net investment of 20.5 million, 19.5p nearly USD36 million in revenue in 2015.
The the Groups underlying profit before tax would Final dividend build-out is on track, with revenues anticipated have increased by 3%, and the Groups profit to approximately double in 2016.
Whilst our new margin would have increased to 18.4%, when US business does continue to have a short term compared to 2014. impact on earnings, I remain confident that it will This reflects the strong performances create long term value for shareholders given the delivered by our Risk & Insurance businesses, rapid progress it has already made in establishing the continued success of our International itself in what continues to be the worlds largest Employee Benefits operations and cost control insurance market.
in the year, offset by the negative impact of In the year the Group completed nine the reduction in the trading profit of our UK transactions, for a total consideration of 30.3 Employee Benefits business.
million, as it continued to build further scale in Our reported profit before tax reduced by its existing businesses and geographies.
These 3% to 155 million, which includes the impact of related mainly to relatively small but important net exceptional costs of 15.1 million and, bolt-on acquisitions, the largest of which was as a consequence, reported diluted EPS Recovre Group acquired in March 2015 for a decreased to 47.0p.
Recovre is a leading national provider of workplace health, safety and rehabilitation services with a network of 24 offices in Australia.
12 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The combination of Recovre and JLTs are provided in the Corporate Governance I would like to thank Mike Reynolds for his existing Benefits Solutions business has Report on pages 50 to 80. contribution in the role of Group Finance created a leading, integrated people risk Director during the year until Charles arrival, JLTs share incentive schemes are designed provider in Australia, with significantly which he carried out at the same time as his to ensure that decisions are made for longenhanced scale, geographic reach and ability new role as Global CEO of JLT Re.
In the term growth, that the right behaviours are to deliver a comprehensive offering to clients.
year we have made a number of changes rewarded and that managements interests to our senior management team.
In October As reported in my statement last year, are aligned with those of shareholders.
2015 Bala Viswanathan, who had previously we announced in February 2015 that the Further details can be found in the Report demonstrated his strong leadership as shareholders of Milestone, the holding of the Remuneration Committee set out on Group Chief Operating Officer, became CEO company of Siaci Saint Honor Siaci, our pages 67 to 80. of JLTs UK Employee Benefits business then French associate, had received an The strength and support of Jardine upon the retirement of Duncan Howorth.
offer to sell their shares to a private equity Matheson has been, and will continue to Bala will have the opportunity to bring new investor to fund the next phase of Siacis be, an important factor in the success of insights to this important business.
As anticipated, this transaction JLT.
Since 2014 a Relationship Agreement like to thank Duncan for his many years of completed in May 2015 and JLT disposed has been in place with Jardine Matheson, service and wish him well in his retirement.
of its stake in Siaci for net cash proceeds in accordance with the Listing Rules of of 80.2 million and an exceptional gain of On 1 January 2016, Paul Knowles became the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, 18.6 million.
CEO of JLT Specialty and Lucy Clarke was which require shareholders with a 30% or appointed as Deputy CEO.
Paul also joins the more shareholding to comply with certain Group Executive Committee GEC.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE independence provisions set out in a The appointments of Paul and Lucy written and legally binding agreement.
The The Board believes in the importance of demonstrate the strength of the Groups Company has recently been reviewing the having robust corporate governance in place succession planning in recognising and processes it has in place to control the across the Group and for the tone for the developing talent.
Both Paul and Lucy bring provision of information to Jardine Matheson business to be set from the top.
It is also many years of valuable knowledge and and has concluded that these processes important to aim to provide a sustainable experience to their new roles.
John Lloyd should be formalised.
As a result, in March business performance for the benefit of our has retired as CEO of JLT Specialty, but 2016 an amended Relationship Agreement shareholders and all our other stakeholders.
the business will continue to benefit from was signed, clarifying when and how We therefore seek to ensure that the Board his experience since he will remain on the information may be requested by Jardine has the right balance of experience, skills board of JLT Specialty as a non-executive Matheson from JLT.
and knowledge, and that it is supported by director and continue to support the effective governance and controls systems.
More detail on the relationship with Jardine business.
I would like to thank John for the More information on these systems can Matheson is set out on page 81. vital contribution he has made to JLT over be found in the Corporate Governance many years - including his instrumental role in Report on pages 50 to 80.
In addition, the SENIOR MANAGEMENT ensuring that the merger of JLT Specialty and Directors Report on pages 81 to 88 reports Lloyd & Partners was a success.
DEVELOPMENTS on JLTs compliance with the UK Corporate On 1 May 2015, Dominic Samengo-Turner Governance Code the Code.
I am pleased to welcome Charles Rozes, was appointed as the new CEO for Asia our new Group Finance Director, to the During the year, the Board and each of and Warren Downey became Deputy CEO Board.
Charles brings a wealth of experience its Committees undertook reviews of their and COO.
Asia now has a strong leadership to JLT, most recently from his roles as effectiveness.
The conclusions from these team to grow the business further.
Global Head of Investor Relations, and reviews provided useful feedback to each CFO of UK Retail, at Barclays plc.
Further details Total shareholder return from 2008 to 2015 250 Performance graph The chart shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR of JLT in the 200 seven year period to 31 December 2015 against the TSR of the FTSE 100, 250 and All Share Indices.
TSR refers to share price growth and 150 assumes dividends are reinvested over the relevant period.
100 50 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc FTSE 250 Index 0 FTSE 100 Index FTSE All Share Index -50 31-Dec-08 31-Dec-09 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-12 31-Dec-13 31-Dec-14 31-Dec-15 Source: Datastream 13 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Shareholder Return % STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Employees by geographical location Rest of World 136 Europe 253 Australia & New Zealand 1,142 Americas 1,711 UK 4,109 10,777 Asia 3,426 As at 31 December 2015 entitled to take one Charity Day per year, Although the Company has not utilised the OUR PEOPLE when they can spend company time helping authority to buy back shares since 2008, the On behalf of the Board I would like to thank a charity.
The Group Charities Committee Board believes it would be in the interests everyone in JLT for their continued hard considers the many requests we receive of all shareholders for the Company to have work and contribution to the Groups results from charities and takes a particular interest the right to purchase its own shares in the in 2015.
I would also like to welcome all our in those charities connected to communities market in the appropriate circumstances.
new colleagues who have joined JLT during local to our offices.
We would only exercise this authority if the year.
We have a distinctive culture at we believe it is in the best interests of We are also keen to ensure that we minimise JLT that values agility and entrepreneurial the shareholders and would result in an our environmental impact and we take drive, rigour and depth of thought and a improvement of earnings per share.
a number of steps to reduce our carbon collaborative approach that puts customers footprint, such as encouraging the use of first.
We invest in our people and provide OUTLOOK teleconferencing facilities where possible, exciting opportunities to develop their instead of travelling to face-to-face meetings.
Despite challenging trading conditions, we careers as well as a first class working remain confident in JLTs strategy, platform environment.
There is further information Read more on page 43 to 49 and continued ability to grow.
about our people and culture on page 7.
SHARE BUY-BACK AUTHORITY OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY We will be seeking renewal of our standing JLT takes its role in society very seriously share buy-back authority at the forthcoming and has an active Corporate Responsibility Annual General Meeting AGM, up to a programme.
JLTs approach is coordinated maximum of 10% of the Companys issued by a Corporate Responsibility Steering share capital.
As in previous years, we will Committee, whose members include two not be seeking shareholder approval for a Executive Directors, the Head of Investor dispensation under Rule 9 of the Takeover Relations and the Group Company Code in relation to this authority.
We also have a Diversity Committee, which is chaired by the Deputy This means that if the directors were to initiate a buy-back, then in order to avoid Group CEO and which has led a range Geoffrey Howe of activities in the past year, including triggering a mandatory offer obligation on Chairman Jardine Matheson Holdings JMH under sponsoring the Lloyds Diversity campaign 1 March 2016 and the Dive In Festival, a market-wide four Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, JMH would need to be able to participate in those buyday celebration of the benefits of diversity and inclusion for the insurance industry.
backs so that its overall percentage holding which as at 19 February 2016 was 40.17% JLT supports the charitable efforts of did not increase following the buy-back.
We match pound-for-pound money raised by UK staff in fundraising activities and all UK staff are 14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
