John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09 PPP: The mid-term prospects for PPP investments are strong We are seeing the markets for onshore wind and solar farms and our pipeline continues to grow: becoming increasingly competitive, even for greenfield projects.
As a result, we are assessing related opportunities such as the Asia Pacic: the PPP market continues to be very active in repowering of older wind farms, together with off-shore wind.
Australia and New Zealand, with an ongoing commitment to We are also investigating further biomass and waste-to-energy infrastructure investment.
We have a strong and established projects.
We are careful always to take into account the team which knows the market really well and is pursuing a latest industry forecasts for energy price and to maintain number of exciting opportunities: an appropriate balance of availability and volume-based investments in our portfolio.
Europe: the market is more subdued in the near term, even if we see that some countries such as Germany, the Beyond the PPP and renewable energy markets, we see Netherlands, Norway and Ireland have increasing ambitions potential opportunities to bring our expertise to asset classes for their infrastructure.
We anticipate that other European that are opening up to project finance, such as smart meters countries will follow, in order to catch up with the growing in the UK or LNG and other energy assets.
We will continue demands for new capacity and to renew ageing existing to investigate new sectors with the same risk analysis and infrastructure: and investment discipline that have helped to deliver our success North America: in Canada our local team is focused on a in the past.
We will also continue to look at expanding into new countries, with a cautious approach and with tested and clear and significant ow of projects, especially in terms of transport systems.
In the US, the actual number of PPP proven technologies.
projects is still relatively small, but the prospects are Asset management significant: an increasing number of individual states have John Laing is an active manager of its investments during the passed PPP legislation and there is a visible need to replace construction and operational phases.
In 2015, we have again or upgrade existing bridges, roads and other transport assets.
proven the strength of our teams, with no material issues Since 2014 we have built a strong team based in New York reported for our projects under construction.
Also, the asset to pursue numerous PPP bids as well as other emerging management team has successfully identified value opportunities, for example in the water sector.
enhancements through optimising costs, fide-risking and refinancing.
We see ourselves as an active investor.
Our Renewable Energy: Since making our first investment in 2011, partners and banks around the world appreciate our skills we are now a seasoned investor in the renewable energy market.
We continue to make good use of these skills Our pipeline has been growing steadily and the recent COP 21 to take our investments through construction whilst protecting summit reinforced our confidence in future growth in this sector.
the investment base cases and always seeking to extract Our objective is to establish a balanced portfolio of assets with additional value.
diversified exposure to power markets, technologies, geographical locations and governmental support mechanisms.
Organisation We are adapting our organisation to stay ahead of evolving In 2015, we confirmed our ability to secure investments at good market demands, whilst carefully managing our cost base.
rates of return in both Europe and Australia.
In 2016, this trend We support our international expansion by recruiting and training should continue and we will likely invest in our first renewable new talent and by redeploying existing resources to the areas energy projects in countries where we are already PPP investors, of fastest growth.
Overall our teams have started 2016 with a lot such as the US.
of exciting projects and a high degree of focus and discipline.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 10 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW CONTINUED Business model To deliver our strategy, we have set ourselves the core objectives Our business model has three key areas of activity: below, while maintaining the discipline and analysis required to mitigate against the delivery, revenue and operational risks Primary Investment: we source, originate, bid for and win associated with infrastructure projects: greeneld infrastructure projects, typically as part of a consortium in the case of PPP projects.
Our Primary growth in primary investment volumes new capital committed Investment portfolio comprises interests in infrastructure to greeneld infrastructure projects over the medium term: projects which have recently reached financial close, growth in the value of external Assets under Management and or are in the construction phase.
AuM and related fee income: and Secondary Investment: we own a substantial portfolio management and enhancement of our investment portfolio, of investments in operational infrastructure projects, accompanied by realisations of investments which, combined almost all of which were previously part of our Primary with our corporate banking facilities and operational cash Investment portfolio.
ows, enable us to finance new investment commitments.
Asset Management: we actively manage our own Growth in primary investment volumes over the medium term Primary and Secondary Investment portfolios and provide We operate in a wide market for new infrastructure with a strong investment advice and asset management services to the pipeline of future opportunities, including opportunities in external funds John Laing Infrastructure Fund JLIF and sectors linked to the PPP and renewable energy sectors.
John Laing Environmental Assets Group JLEN through our FCA-regulated subsidiary, John Laing Capital Management Throughout the year, we maintained a disciplined approach to Limited JLCM, as well as in respect of a small number of making new investments.
Using sophisticated financial analysis PPP assets held by John Laing Pension Fund JLPF.
and investment appraisal processes, we assess the specific risk profiles for each prospective investment with the aim of optimising Our business model is based on our investment and asset risk-adjusted returns and securing new investments that are management capabilities and the current strong demand for likely to meet the investment appetites of secondary market operational infrastructure assets.
investors when the underlying assets become operational.
We aim to invest in new greenfield infrastructure projects which, Our resources are concentrated on countries or geographical post-construction, produce long-term predictable cash flows regions carefully selected against four key criteria: that meet our rate of return targets.
The projects we invest in are held within special purpose vehicles SPVs which we a commitment to the development of privately-nanced often in conjunction with other investors fund with equity, infrastructure: and which are structured so that providers of third party debt a stable political and legal framework: finance have no contractual recourse to equity investors beyond their equity commitment.
the ability to form relationships with strong supply chain partners: and When investments become part of our Primary Investment portfolio, their value should grow progressively with a relatively the likelihood of target financial returns, on a risk-adjusted high degree of probability as the underlying assets move through basis, being realised.
the construction phase and their risk reduces.
Once the underlying Our total commitment to new investments in 2015 was projects reach the operational stage, our investments move from 180.5 million, made up of 112.5 million in renewable energy our Primary to our Secondary Investment portfolio where they and 68.0 million in PPP assets, well ahead of our annual average can be sold to secondary market investors, who are targeting a over the previous four years of 135 million.
Our international lower rate of return consistent with the reduction in risk.
growth continued with investment commitments in seven Our asset management activities focus on management and different countries, including the following projects: reduction of project risks, especially during the construction phase, and enhancement of project cash flows.
The latter involves identifying and implementing value enhancement Sydney Light Rail Australia 41.4 million initiatives that can increase future cash flows to investors compared to those originally forecast at financial close.
Klettwitz Wind Farm Germany Opportunities for such value enhancements may arise at any 33.8 million time during a projects life and may vary significantly from one investment to another.
Cramlington Biomass UK 27.0 million Objectives and outcomes I-77 Managed Lanes US 16.0 million Our overall strategy is to create value for shareholders by originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets Hornsdale Wind Farm Australia internationally.
In that respect, we see NAV growth and dividends as key measures of our success.
In 2015, our NAV grew by 15.4% 12.1 million from 771.1 million adjusted pro forma at 31 December 2014 to 889.6 million at 31 December 2015.
Our dividends are proposed to amount to 6.9p per share in total for 2015.
