16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 2 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Performance While emerging markets continue to struggle, I am pleased to report that your Company produced a strong relative performance against its benchmark.
In the year to 30th June 2015, the return on net assets was 7.4%.
This compares with the benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in sterling terms, which returned 3.2%.
The return to ordinary shareholders was 6.6%, reflecting a marginal widening of the discount over the year, from 10.1% to 10.7%.
The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from emerging markets worldwide and its performance is measured against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, in sterling terms, on a total return basis.
It is very pleasing to report this outperformance of the benchmark index for the latest financial year, after a disappointing performance the year before.
This serves to enhance the Companys long term performance record.
Indeed, as the graph on page 1 illustrates, the Company is ahead of the benchmark over three, five and ten years.
Our Managers investment process focuses on bottom-up stock selection rather than a top-down asset allocation across markets.
This has served the Company well over the long term and added value during the year.
Fees No performance fee was paid this year.
The outperformance has reduced the negative performance fee accrual from 3.6 million to 1.6 million.
In prior years this would have been carried forward to be offset against any future outperformance before any performance fee became payable.
However, I stated last year that the Board was aware of pressure in the industry to lower fees and that it wished the Company to remain competitive.
As announced in June this year the performance fee arrangement has been removed.
The management fee basis remains unchanged and accordingly, with effect from 1st July 2015 the Companys fee arrangements comprise only a management fee, which continues to be charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum on the Companys total assets less current liabilities on assets of up to 800 million and at a rate of 0.75% on assets above that level.
The Board believes that the Companys fee arrangements are now the most competitive in its immediate peer group of global emerging markets equity investment trusts, but it will continue to monitor developments in the investment trust and open ended funds universe.
Discount Management We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the discount of our share price to the net asset value.
The Ordinary share price rose 5.6% over the year, from 556.0p to 587.0p at the year end.
The discount ranged between 7.7% and 13.0%, averaging 10.3% through the year.
During the year, a total of 10,155,432 new Ordinary shares were issued, as a result of the conversion of the remaining subscription shares, for a total consideration of 55.1 million.
A total of 799,027 shares were repurchased into Treasury during the year.
No further shares have been repurchased since the year end.
The discount narrowed after the overhang of subscription shares was removed at the beginning of the year but unfortunately concerns over emerging markets as an asset class have meant continuing pressure on the discount.
2 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 3 The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged it is prepared to take action to ensure that the fully diluted discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
As we have done in the past, we are prepared to buy shares in at discounts of between 8% and 10% in order to achieve this, subject to those caveats.
Over the year under review, whilst the average discount was marginally above 10%, we believe our actions continued to be effective in reducing the volatility of the discount and it was in line with our immediate peers.
Revenue and Dividends Income after expenses rose by some 40% this year and earnings per share from 5.12p to 6.68p.
We propose to increase the dividend from 5.5p to 6.0p, still covered by earnings.
Our investment policy is aimed at maximising capital growth and does not focus on income though we have embarked on a more progressive approach to the dividend in recent years.
However, given that the Companys objective is to achieve capital growth, it remains the case that dividends may fluctuate from year to year according to our income position.
The Board Percy Mistry will retire from the Board on 31st December 2015.
He joined the Board in 2009 and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his sterling contribution to the Boards deliberations, in particular his insights into events in India.
In order to ensure appropriate succession planning and continuity, Richard Laing and Andrew Page were appointed in January 2015.
Nigel Kenny has indicated his intention to step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
The Board currently comprises seven Directors, though that will reduce to six at the end of the half year.
Directors fees have not increased in three years and in order to allow for future fee increases and the temporary increase in board size, we are requesting that shareholders approve at the forthcoming AGM an increase in the maximum aggregate that can be paid each year from 175,000 to 225,000.
The Manager The Board monitors the performance of our Manager through the Management Engagement Committee.
Last year was something of a return to form and continues the strong long term performance record.
Thus we remain satisfied with the Managers overall performance, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance, where we continue to be well served.
AGM This years AGM will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NQ on Tuesday, 17th November 2015 at 3.00 p. m. Austin Forey will give a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the past year and giving his view on the outlook for emerging markets for the current year.
The meeting will be followed by afternoon JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3 16519 pp01 20 28 09 2015 16:58 Page 4 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued tea, which will provide shareholders with the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Managers.
We look forward to seeing as many shareholders as possible at the AGM.
Outlook The last year or two have been a troubled time for investors in emerging markets.
Markets have struggled to recapture the strong relative performance of the years leading up to the crash of 2008 and indeed the immediate recovery from that.
Unquestionably risks have increased in many countries in recent years.
There is a strong case for saying however that these risks have been priced into valuations that are now on a significant discount to developed markets.
Sentiment is still fragile but taking a long term view, the Board feels that emerging markets should outperform developed markets.
Alan Saunders Chairman 28th September 2015 4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
