Chairmans introduction Dear shareholder, At Jupiter, we put considerable emphasis on the importance of good governance, so I am pleased to report on the governance of your Company in 2015.
The role of the Board and our corporate values The Boards role is to set the Companys strategy, ensure it has the right leadership and culture, monitor the performance of the business and oversee its risk management structure.
The Boards effectiveness in carrying out this role is supported by its focus on culture, setting the tone from the top and paying close attention to good governance throughout the Company.
As Chairman, my role is to lead the Board, set its agenda and ensure it operates effectively.
Our corporate values are longstanding and central to our business success.
You will see them set out in the Strategic report.
They articulate clearly our client-centric culture, focused on integrity and excellence of client outcomes.
The Board The Board is responsible for the Companys long-term success.
This success is promoted by having Board members with a diverse range of relevant skills and experiences and is supported by a succession plan which balances continuity and refreshment of Board membership.
Following the significant changes in 2014, with the appointment of both a new Chief Executive Officer and a new Chairman, we sought to limit changes to the Board in 2015.
Polly Williams joined us on 1 March as a non-executive Director and was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee since renamed the Audit and Risk Committee.
This enabled me to step down from this role, which I had held at the time of my appointment as Chairman of the Board in September 2014.
With her experience in financial services from her roles in the banking industry, Polly has brought a fresh and invaluable new perspective to the Board.
As noted in our last Annual report, Matteo Perruccio retired from the Board at our 2015 AGM.
Shortly afterwards on 1 May, Bridget Macaskill joined as a non-executive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Bridgets depth of understanding of our industry has meant that she has made a significant and immediate contribution to our Board discussions.
Compliance Statement The Company fully supports the principles of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The principles in the September 2014 edition of the Code were applied throughout the year.
A copy of the Code can be found on the FRC website at: www.
uk Having reviewed the provisions of the Code, the Board is satisfied that throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2015, the Company complied with those provisions except in relation to the chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee between 1 January and 1 March 2015.
Following Liz Aireys appointment as Chairman in September 2014 in place of the previous Chairman who retired as a result of ill health, she continued as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee until Polly Williams appointment as a nonexecutive Director and Chairman of that Committee from 1 March 2015.
Liz Airey then stepped down from the Audit and Risk Committee.
Details of how the Company has applied the provisions of the Code are described later in this Governance 32 section.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Executive Director team, led by Maarten Slendebroek as Board effectiveness Chief Executive Officer, remained constant in 2015, though with Towards the end of 2015, we undertook our annual review of Board some individual role changes.
John Chatfeild-Roberts handed on effectiveness.
This year we used an analytical tool called Thinking the role of Chief Investment Officer to Stephen Pearson, his deputy Board, developed by the governance specialists, Independent since 2012, to enable him to focus on running the Jupiter Merlin Audit Limited.
The results satisfied us that the Board was working multi-manager portfolios.
In November, following changes to our well but we also identified possible ways to improve the flow of our Executive Committee, we announced that our Chief Financial individual Board meetings and their scheduling over the year.
In Officer, Philip Johnson, will be leaving Jupiter in May 2016.
We are addition, with the objective of enhancing the quality of Board very grateful to Philip for his significant contribution over the past debate and deepening the understanding of the Boards role six years, during which Jupiter has grown very successfully throughout the business, we have developed a plan to foster following the IPO in 2010.
We wish him every success for the future.
deeper engagement between non-executive Directors and We have appointed Russell Reynolds to help us recruit a new CFO.
members of the senior executive team.
Our Committees I hope that this introduction has added some colour to the formal Our Board committees of non-executive Directors and our various reports from the Committees that follow in the next few pages.
I executive Committees play integral roles in supporting the Boards look forward to meeting you and answering any questions you work.
The committees, their remits and memberships are shown may have at our forthcoming AGM on 18 May 2016. later in this section.
During the year, the executive management structure underwent Liz Airey important changes.
First, in February, we created a Management Chairman Committee to support the Executive Committee in its day to day management of Jupiters operations.
The Executive Committee 26 February 2016 itself evolved considerably during the year, with two key members of the senior leadership team joining in September.
Then in November, further changes were announced resulting in the creation of an eight strong Executive Committee with effect from 1 January 2016.
The Board Committees all continued to play important roles.
The Remuneration Committee performed its key role in ensuring that Jupiter can attract and retain talented employees, during this period of ongoing regulatory change.
The Committee has focused on maintaining the strong culture of pay for performance and aligning the reward to employees with the experience of our clients and shareholders.
Under the leadership of Polly Williams, the remit of the Audit and Risk Committee has broadened and now has a fuller oversight of Group risk, supported by the development of a group-wide Enterprise Risk Management framework.
The Nomination Committee has continued to work on Board and senior management succession planning, with a particular focus on diversity of perspective.
The committee currently has two recruitment projects in hand, with a search for a new CFO and for a new non-executive Director, as part of our continual Board refreshment, now under way.
The reports from each of the Board Committees which follow spell out more about their work and priorities.
33 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
