Strategic report 10 | Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 Chairmans statement A year of diversification, innovation and growth Just Retirement remains a challenger brand and has demonstrated agility in responding at pace to diversify its revenue base I am pleased to introduce Just Retirements 2015 Annual Report.
The Group has delivered a creditable performance in what has been the most significant year of change to the retirement income market since 1920.
Responding positively to freedom and choice The reforms to pensions announced by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his 2014 Budget came into force in April 2015.
One of the most significant effects of the March 2014 announcement was the impact on the behaviour of people approaching retirement.
A high proportion of people deferred making any decisions on how to use their pension savings until the changes came into effect in April this year.
Consequently the size of the individual retirement income market reduced significantly during this period and at the time of writing this report it is too early to predict what the new norm in consumer behaviour will be.
We have responded by accelerating the growth in our Defined Benefit fide-risking business which has seen a five-fold increase in business compared to the previous year.
This has been achieved by broadening our distribution relationships and accessing new segments.
You can read more about these exciting innovations on pages 32 and 82.
Tom Cross Brown | Chairman Strategic report Governance Financial statements Just Retirement Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2015 | 11 We are a fast-growing business 290,000 customers from a standing Just Retirement has celebrated its tenth Our people anniversary and I am proud to say the same On behalf of the Board I would like to start ten years ago.
determination to put the customer at the recognise the extraordinary achievements of heart of our innovation is as strong today colleagues across the Group.
I would like to as it was when the Company positively thank them for the way they have united disrupted the market a decade ago.
The and gone the extra mile to ensure customers Group has responded with agility to launch could access the new pension freedoms in a new range of products and services April and to ensure Just Retirement is well Future prospects including modern individually underwritten positioned to compete in the market.
Just Retirement has a clear strategy, a Guaranteed Income for Life Solutions, sound capital base and has accelerated aFlexible Pension Plan and a retirementthe diversification of its revenue base by Our communities focused regulated advice service.
focusing on growing the Defined Benefit Just Retirement colleagues contribute fide-risking business.
Simultaneously we to our communities through a range of have applied our innovation credentials to activities with support from the Group.
Read more on page 48. launch a modern and contemporary range of customer solutions for the individual In conjunction with our sponsorship of the market.
Whilst uncertainty remains over Operating performance World Indoor Bowls Championships and precisely how customers will use their The Groups IFRS underlying operating partnership with the English Indoor newpension freedoms, the Group is profit was 86.4m 2013 14: 96.7m and Bowling Association, we made it possible nowwell prepared to deliver a wider was impacted by the major disruption to for Donyngs Indoor Bowls Club, based in rangeof solutions.
the individual retirement income market Redhill near our headquarters, to host a following the 2014 Budget announcement.
tournament for people with disabilities.
I am confident that with that strategy, our Group embedded value grew to 1,019m strong management and the commitment 30 June 2014: 959m and we have Find out more about our community of our colleagues, we will continue to work on page 42. maintained a sound economic capital provide excellent value for our customers coverage ratio of 176% 30 June 2014: and growing returns for our shareholders.
178%, well above the Groups minimum Just Retirement has continued to I do encourage shareholders to read the target coverage of 140%.
strengthen its relationships with Alzheimers report to discover more about what makes Research UK, a national charity, and Just Retirement successful.
St Catherines Hospice, a charity based near You can read a full review of our operating performance on page 28. our Reigate headquarters.
In April 2015, This is likely to be my last statement as we added Northern Ireland Hospice, in Chairman of Just Retirement.
It has been Belfast, to charities the Group supports.
Dividend a privilege to work with so many The Directors are proposing a final dividend outstanding people over an extended The Group matches all the donations made of 2.2 pence 2013 14: 2.2 pence, which period of time, and I am most grateful for to these charities.
At the end of 2014 the brings the total dividend for the year the support that has been so generously 1 Group introduced a payroll giving scheme to3.3pence 2013 14: 3.3pence.
Subject to the proposed to help employees easily donate to charities Thedividend policy remains unchanged.
Merger completing, I look forward to of their choice.
taking up my position on the Board as Board and governance Deputy Chairman, and participating in the Merger announcement The Board leads Just Retirements next chapter of a remarkable company.
The Boards of Just Retirement Group plc governance function.
We describe in and Partnership Assurance Group plc pages 56 to 66 of this report how its In closing, on behalf of the Board, I would announced on 11 August 2015 that they performance remained effective throughout like to thank colleagues across the Group have reached agreement on the terms of 2015.
The membership of the Board was along with our distribution and business a recommended all-share Merger to create largely unchanged in the year, with the partners for their support in delivering and JRP Group plc.
The Merger is expected to exception of Steve Melcher who joined contributing to our 2015 results.
result in Just Retirement shareholders as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
owning approximately 60% of the Steve is Chairman of the Risk and Combined Group and Partnership Assurance Compliance Committee and a member shareholders owning approximately 40% of the Audit Committee and the of the Combined Group.
To read more about the Merger 1 Notional interim dividend of 1.1 pence and actual final see page 8.
Tom Cross Brown dividend of 2.2 pence
