Chairmans Statement The Board is pleased to announce another set of solid annual results for the year ended 31 December 2015.
2015 was quieter than previous years in terms of growth of the Portfolio by acquisition, in part due to market conditions, particularly in the UK, and in part due to our focus on developing new relationships with vendors in overseas markets.
Paul Lester CBE Chairman Introduction We have once again exceeded the level of growth from the Portfolio that would arise from the adjusted unwind of the We have continued to grow the Portfolio through active discount rate.
This is the fifth consecutive year since launch that management, and have again exceeded the level of growth that the Company has outperformed by this measure.
would be expected from the discount rate unwind.
Our Portfolio is currently valued at 867.8 million, an increase of 66.8 million In 2015, we delivered underlying Portfolio growth of 8.34%, 4 against last years rebased portfolio value.
representing an outperformance of 22 basis points versus that which would be expected based on the adjusted unwind of the In January 2016, we completed the acquisition of a stake in the 5 discount rate.
This outperformance was driven by the identication Barcelona Metro Stations project for approximately 85 million, and delivery of value enhancements, attributable to our active having signed the transaction in December 2015, demonstrating approach to portfolio management, offset by the negative the fruition of our earlier efforts.
macroeconomic impact of actual ination, and underperformance on some projects, such as the Newcastle and Peterborough Dividends and Share Issuance Hospital projects, where disputes with the NHS Trust In late February 2016, we announced a dividend of 3.41 pence counterparties have resulted in increased costs.
per share for the second half of 2015, an increase of 1.04% on We identied and executed value enhancements that either the previous dividend of 3.375 pence per share.
The further increased revenues or decreased costs, whilst continuing to progression on the dividend, providing our shareholders with provide the high level of service expected by our public sector a yield growth in line with UK ination, results in a total dividend clients.
During 2015 this included cost savings resulting from payable in respect of 2015 of 6.785 pence per share.
Since careful and prudent management of lifecycle allowances, and other launch, the Company has provided its shareholders with 14% efficiencies relating to insurance and SPV management costs.
growth in the dividend, which equates to an annualised rate of 2.7% dividend growth.
Over the last four years we have contributed significant value to our shareholders.
The table below shows the underlying portfolio The announcement of the dividend was made co-terminus with 6 growth, growth from the adjusted unwind of the discount rate the announcement of a shareholder tap issue for 81.2 million and outperformance for the past four years.
We were very pleased with the strong appetite from our shareholders to participate in the issuance 2012 2013 2014 2015 which resulted in gross proceeds of 92.9 million.
The proceeds Underlying portfolio growth 8.49% 7.24% 9.22% 8.34% will be used to repay the debt drawn in respect of the recent Barcelona Metro Stations and British Transport Police PPP Adjusted unwind of the acquisitions, as anticipated.
discount rate 7.20% 6.38% 7.81% 8.12% Outperformance 1.29% 0.86% 1.41% 0.22% Performance We have grown the Net Asset Value NAV by over 225% including acquisitions of 597.6 million and delivered a Total Following a review of the valuation undertaken by the Board and an independent leading accountancy rm, we have decided to Shareholder Return TSR of 50.2% since launch, in November 2010.
Although our share price has declined over the past year, reduce the weighted average discount rate WADR used in the ending the year at 116.7 pence, down from 122.8 pence at the valuation of our Portfolio by 12 basis points to 7.82%.
This reects start of the year, despite steady growth over the previous four a reduction in gilt rates used as a proxy for the risk free rate years, JLIFs share price has remained relatively stable, trading and our own experience of the market rates at which deals are throughout the period at a premium to NAV.
transacting in the secondary market, particularly in the UK, where the majority of our Portfolio is invested.
The outperformance mentioned above is in addition to the value created through the reduction in the WADR.
5 After adjusting for the timing of acquisitions and distributions in the year.
6 After adjusting for investments, distributions, foreign exchange movements and discount rate movements.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 05.
Gearing The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm, BST, on 16 May 2016 at the ofces of Heritage International Fund In 2015, we signed a new five-year 180 million revolving credit Managers in Guernsey.
facility provided by four banks, two of whom were providers to our previous facility.
Attached to the facility is a 100 million Investment Adviser accordion capability giving JLIF greater repower when targeting new investments.
We continue to operate without any structural We were pleased to announce earlier this year that our Investment gearing.
Further detail on how the facility was used in 2015 and Adviser, John Laing Capital Management JLCM, appointed in early 2016 can be found in the Investment Adviser Report.
Gianluca Mazzoni as Deputy Investment Adviser to JLIF, in charge of Business Development.
He will report to Andrew Given the significant opportunities available to the Company, Charlesworth, the head of JLCM.
at the forthcoming AGM in May 2016, the Board intends to seek shareholder approval which, if obtained, will increase the Investment Companys gearing limit in its articles of association and investment policy from 25% to 35% of JLIFs Total Assets.
Further details We made two investments in UK projects during 2015: an will follow in due course with the Companys notice of AGM.
additional stake in the Kirklees Social Housing project from co-shareholder Wates Construction Limited, and a 100% stake in the North Birmingham Mental Health project from John Laing Governance & Regulation Group plc.
The team has put considerable effort into developing The Company applies the UK Corporate Governance Code and European opportunities, of which the Barcelona Metro Stations is required to comply with the EU-wide Alternative Investment project, valued at approximately 85 million, was signed before Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and the Company remains the year-end and completed in January 2016. a self-managed non-EU Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
We continue to comply with all of the reporting requirements Market & Business Outlook with respect to AIFMD including quarterly reporting in the jurisdictions in which the Company is marketed, and disclosures The secondary PPP market experienced something of an contained within the annual and interim reports.
adjustment in geographical focus in 2015.
The UK market for secondary projects was relatively inactive compared to previous The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of years, whilst the western and southern European markets were the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, as revised in 2010, AIC particularly active.
Our team was invited to tender for over 50 Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for projects in these markets alone.
Secondary market transactions Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained in North America and the Asia-Pacic region were fewer in by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of number, however, we continue to remain close to these markets the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and as we believe in the medium term they still remain important recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the sources of opportunities for growth.
We have continued to be Company.
More information is on page 36 of this report, under the selective in the opportunities that we have considered and for Corporate Governance section.
The Company intends to continue which we have submitted tenders, maintaining our disciplined complying with the AIC Code in this financial year.
We expect Continental Europe to remain active in 2016 Risks & Uncertainties with opportunities expected to emerge in certain northern While it is the Investment Adviser who manages the risks facing European countries.
the Company on a day-to-day basis, it is the Board of the Company who retain ultimate responsibility.
The Companys Risk Australia continues to develop its infrastructure pipeline with Committee, which reports to the Board, was formed to review several new primary transactions reaching financial close in 2015. the effectiveness of the Companys and that of the Investment However, the country is experiencing the effect of some political Adviser, Administrator and other third party service providers as change which, although not affecting its long term attractiveness it deems t internal control policies and procedures for the as a market for investment, does mean the pipeline for projects identication, assessment and reporting of risks.
may not ow as smoothly as before whilst new political gures settle into place.
A description of the principal risks facing the Company, as well as the ways by which these are mitigated, is contained within After Ontario, British Columbia remains the strongest PPP market the Risk Committee Report on pages 10 to 13.
This specically in Canada with a consistent and strong pipeline of projects discusses the risks associated with Base Erosion profit Sharing expected to come to market over the next few years, from larger BEPS, a recent initiative between OECD countries, that has transport projects to smaller social infrastructure deals.
The become relevant to our industry.
While at this stage it remains provincial government in British Columbia is supportive of the unclear exactly how the UK will eventually implement the BEPS PPP model and is only a year-and-a-half into its four-year term, recommendations, we are encouraged by mention of possible which means the next two years or so will be relatively stable and exemptions, such as exclusion from the regime for senior debt should yield a secondary market pipeline in the future.
related to projects such as those in which JLIF invests.
While The USA continues to develop its infrastructure pipeline but has eventual implementation of the legislation is still thought to added political complexities due to the number of States, each be a few years away, the Investment Adviser continues to lend its with their own particular laws and approaches.
We continue to support to and participate alongside industry peers in consultation maintain a watching brief on this market and are actively processes run by HMRC, the most recent of which took place in developing relationships to ensure JLIF is well positioned January 2016, such that any impact on PPP projects is minimised.
when the project pipeline does begin to ow.
This has been evidenced by JLIF being invited to bid for two secondary assets Board & AGM in the US in 2016 already.
In November 2015, the Board engaged Optimus Group Limited to undertake an external independent assessment of the Boards performance.
I am pleased to say that the conclusion of their Paul Lester CBE assessment was very positive with only some minor comments Chairman on areas for improvement, none of which were considered by them to be material.
Details of the outcome of the assessment 16 March 2016 are on page 36 of this report.
