Strategic report Chairmans statement Overview 2015 was another year of significant progress in our drive to restore the Groups financial strength and deliver our goal of becoming the best bank for customers and a year in which Ifelt a renewed sense of pride across the organisation for what we do and what we stand for.
While legacy issues still impact on our results, we have increased underlying profit, further strengthened our balance sheet, continued to improve the efficiency of the business and enabled the government to substantially reduce its remaining stake in the Group at a profit.
We have taken further steps to reinforce a customer focused culture and our staff surveys show continued strong engagement andcommitment.
As a result of our business performance and strong capital position, I am pleased to announce that the Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend of 1.5 pence per share.
The total ordinary dividend per share for 2015 of 2.25pence has increased from 0.75 pence in 2014.
In addition, the Board has recommended a capital distribution in the form of a special dividend of 0.5 pence per share.
This is in line with theGroups policy that aims to provide a progressive and sustainable dividend whilst distributing surplus capital when appropriate to do so.
Lord Blackwell Strategic development Chairman We remain committed to our clear strategy of building LloydsBanking Group as a highly focused, low risk and low cost UK retail and commercial bank.
In an uncertain world we are reinforced in our belief that this focus provides the best One of my primary roles as opportunity to build a strong and successful organisation thatcan deliver sustainable shareholder value based on Chairman is to ensure we outstanding customer service.
At the same time we recognise that technology is transforming banking and the way our build a business which is customers interact with us, and our core processes and our competitive landscape are being substantially reshaped.
In commercially successful, addressing these challenges webelieve that our customer helps our customers with focus and simple business modelwill continue to provide opportunities for competitiveadvantage.
their financial needs and plays a valued role in Britains long-term economic success.
2.25p ordinary dividend per share Helping Britain prosper 2015 was also a milestone year for the Group as we marked the250th anniversary of Lloyds Bank, the 200th anniversary ofScottish Widows and the 30th anniversary of the Lloyds Charitable Foundations.
Our celebrations reinforced our commitment to sustain the traditional values of customer service and community support, the foundations on which theGroup has been built.
The strength of our Group comes from our rich and diverse heritage, our iconic brands, and a strong commitment to our core purpose of helping Britain prosper.
We believe we are inaunique position to use our scale, reach and influence to help improve the economic and social issues facing people, businesses and communities through our Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
06 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate culture, operating responsibly COMMITTED TO One of my goals as Chairman is to ensure we build a business GOOD GOVERNANCE which everyone feels proud of.
Not only should we be a One of the principal tasks of the Board is to develop commercially successful business, but we should also be seen astrategy which can achieve long-term success and as having a noble purpose in helping our millions of customers generate sustainable returns for shareholders.
This needs manage their financial needs whilst playing a core and highly to be underpinned by the high standards of corporate valued role in funding enterprise and supporting Britains governance which are critical to the success of any long-term economic growth.
business today and should be driven by the Board led In achieving this the Board and senior management have bythe Chairman and embedded in the thinking and avital role to play in shaping and embedding a healthy processes of the business.
We are confident we have corporate culture, and this has been a major focus for the aproven, strong and skilled management team, a well Boards attention over the last year.
The values and standards balanced, experienced Board and a commitment to of behaviour we set are an important influence and there are good governance, enabling us to build abusiness that strong links between governance and establishing a culture we believe will deliver sustainable success in the future.
These values and standards also provide the foundation on which we are seeking to build Our Board sustainable success as a responsible business, supporting the The Board has seen a number of changes this year, and in communities in which we operate and serve.
line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the interests of good corporate governance, all Communities Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Our commitment to invest in the long-term economic future on an annual basis.
We are committed to ensuring we have ofthe UK is highlighted, not just through our lending to the right balance of skills and experience within the Board, customers such as first-time buyers and SMEs, but also and we annually review its composition, and the diversity through the many community programmes we run and ofbackgrounds of its members.
through our four charitable Foundations.
Areas of focus Our shared goal for our milestone year was to make it our greatest ever year for supporting local communities.
In Corporate Governance Framework response our colleagues completed more volunteering hours In late 2014, we undertook an end-to-end review of than ever and, in our first year of partnership with BBC Children the Groups governance arrangements from a fresh in Need, we raised 5 million, more than double our original perspective.
The review was informed by the 2014 annual target of 2 million.
review of Board Effectiveness as well as the work which Our Foundations are at the heart of our purpose to help Britain isbeing carried out in the Group in preparation for the prosper and to bring communities closer together.
In 2015, Senior Managers and Certification Regime.
The review weprovided 17 million to the Foundations and since their was completed in 2015 and the findings and the Boards establishment, they have distributed almost 600 million to response are set out on page 68. charities and projects tackling disadvantage in communities across the UK.
Viability statement The Board fulfilled its obligation to assess the Groups longer term viability during the year.
Our viability statement can be found on page 108.
5m raised for our charity of the year Strategy and customer focus In 2015, the Board reviewed progress in implementing the Groups customer focused strategy whilst ensuring Regulation conduct, culture and values were at the forefront of how The regulatory landscape in which we operate continues to the business is run.
You can read more in the strategic evolve.
Competition, conduct and capital remain central to report.
reform and the regulators are continuing to undertake reviews into products and markets.
We are however now starting to see greater clarity on a number of key areas.
In particular, the Bank of England has provided more certainty on industry IT resilience and capital levels, the FCA announced a consultation on PPI time digital transformation barring and we continue to make progress towards a final plan There is an ever increasing understanding of the criticality on ring-fencing and resolution.
With regards to the ongoing of technology in delivering customer service.
During the Competition and Markets Authority CMA review, while year, the Board spent considerable time reviewing the believing there is already strong competition in UK markets, delivery of the three-year IT resilience investment and we welcome any proposals thathelp competition provide digital transformation programmes.
You can read more on better choice and more transparency for customers and are page 65. committed to working with the CMA to ensure better account comparability and easier switching.
There are a number of regulatory developments where the impact on us is still unclear including the Fair and Effective Markets Review, the Senior Managers and Certification Regime and changes to the individual and corporate pensions market: but overall, we believe our simple, low risk, UK focused Read more on governance in the corporate strategy puts us in a strong position to adapt to these governance report or online at 60 regulatory changes.
com 07 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued Directors Remuneration We have recently appointed two new Independent Our approach to reward is intended to provide a clear link Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
Deborah McWhinney between remuneration and delivery of the Groups key joined in December and brings an extensive executive strategic objectives, supporting the aim of becoming the background from North America in managing technology, bestbank for customers and, through that, for shareholders.
operations and new digital innovations in banking, payments Webelieve in offering fair reward.
We are embedding a and institutional investment.
Stuart Sinclair joined in January performance-driven and meritocratic culture where colleagues and brings experience in retail banking, consumer and asset are rewarded for behaviours aligned to the long-term finance andinsurance.
sustainable success of the business, our commitment to rebuilding trust and to changing the culture of the Group.
These appointments will help ensure the Board is well placed to address future technology and market risks across the full Wewant to ensure colleagues are empowered, inspired and range of business areas in which we operate.
incentivised to do the right thing for customers.
Colleagues are rewarded in a way that recognises the very highest of Non-Executive Director Carolyn Fairbairn retired from the expectations in respect of conduct and customer treatment, Board in October to take up the position of Director-General and when behaviour falls below acceptable standards, it is of the Confederation of British Industry.
Meanwhile, in important that accountability is taken collectively as well as December, Dyfrig John announced his intention to retire after individually.
This is particularly the case when dealing with, our AGM in 2016.
We are very grateful to both of them for their andlearning from, mistakes of the past.
significant contribution to the Group.
The Group has had a successful year, with a number of 2015 also saw a number of changes to the Boards structure strategic milestones achieved.
Nevertheless, despite better and composition, including the establishment of a Responsible underlying results in 2015, the Groups total bonus outcome Business Committee which underlines our commitment to has reduced year-on-year to353.7million.
This includes a being a responsible business.
26per cent collective performance adjustment being applied More information on these changes as well as an overview to the total bonus outcome to reflect the additional conductofour approach to culture and values can be found in our related provisions which impacted negatively on profitability corporate governance report on page 60. and shareholder returns.
As a percentage of pre-bonus underlying profit, the total bonus outcome has decreased to 4.2percent in 2015.
Cash bonuses are capped at 2,000 with additional amounts paid inshares and subject to deferral and performance adjustment.
Average bonus awards across all ourcolleagues are approximately 4,600.
ESTABLISHMENT OF A NEW More information on how we ensure our approach to RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS COMMITTEE In 2015, an important new Board Committee was remuneration supports our strategy can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 82. established to focus on responsible business.
The Committee provides oversight of Group strategy and plansfor delivering our aspirations to be a leader in Outlook responsible business.
One of my primary roles as Chairman is to ensure we build a The Committee also provides oversight and challenge to business which is commercially successful, helps our customers executive management on those activities which impact with their financial needs and plays a valued role in Britains onour reputation as a trusted, responsible business.
Despite our progress we cannotbe complacent.
As I have described, we have to be In terms of responsibilities, the Committee oversees: increasingly focused on the scope and pace of change in the expression, measurement, communication and particular the speed of the digital revolution and the impact of maintenance of our culture and values: new markets and technologies if we are to remain well placed to serve customer needs in years to come.
Managing that pace the design and development of the Responsible of change carefully is a major priority.
Business Plan and the Helping Britain Prosper Plan, the measurement of performance against such plans At the same time I believe we must also continue to focus and their internal and external communication: on rebuilding the trust of our customers, regulators and the development of policies relating to the responsible politicians.
Businesses are increasingly and rightly treatment of customers and their implementation, judged on how they demonstrate and communicate their including measurement of trust, customer satisfaction broader value to society.
Securing that position of trust, and advocacy.
This includes policies for access and where we are doing the right things for our customers, the inclusion and responsible lending including our economy and society at large, is essential to a successful customer vulnerability agenda: andsustainable future.
our engagement with communities and charitable I would like to thank all my colleagues across the Group andphilanthropic activities: fortheir hard work and commitment in addressing these our approach to the control of our environmental challenges and helping secure that future success.
impact, including measurement and internal and external reporting: the policies relating to the responsible treatment of employees and their implementation, including inclusion and diversity, and our codes of responsibility: and the engagement of employees in relation to the Groups Lord Blackwell Responsible Business Plan.
Chairman Read more on page 81 or visit www.
