London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2015 Chairmans statement The Group is in a strong position globally and all of us with good reason can look forward to a strong and vibrant future.
Donald Brydon CBE Chairman Overview I have been impressed with the quality and depth of the executive team I welcome this first opportunity to communicate with shareholders since developed by Xavier Rolet and by the enthusiasm and dedication of all involved I became Chairman of London Stock Exchange Group in July last year.
2015 was in the growth of the business.
As a markets infrastructure provider, the Group has a year of further development for the Group as it continued to expand its global technology at the core of all its operations and is well equipped with the skills to presence and business footprint while delivering growth, both through acquisition ensure its technology remains both cost effective and fit for purpose in a rapidly and organically.
Progress on the execution of our strategy and our financial changing environment.
performance are detailed in this Annual Report.
Financial performance The Group remains a key facilitator of capital raising, helping companies from The Group delivered a good financial performance with all businesses delivering around the world raise a total of 42 billion in 2015 through new and further equity growth on an underlying, organic constant currency basis.
It also provides a series of leading market data and benchmarking tools and to 2,381.5 million, up 72% on a continuing and discontinued basis.
Adjusted produces systemically important balance sheet and risk management services.
operating profit increased 27% to 709.6 million and operating profit increased 44% to 499.9 million.
As announced in October 2015, the Group has agreed the disposal of Frank Russell Companys investment management business for gross proceeds of The Board has reviewed the Groups capital management, encompassing US$1,150 million.
The sale followed the completion of a comprehensive review its debt position, investment needs and development opportunities.
As a of the business and the transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2016. consequence of the Groups good ongoing financial performance, strong cash The Russell Index business has been successfully combined with FTSE to create generation and financial position, the Board is proposing a step up in the final FTSE Russell, a leading global index player.
We remain on track to deliver the dividend, to 25.2 pence per share.
This results in a total dividend for the year targeted revenue and cost synergies.
of 36.0 pence per share, an implied increase of 20%.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register as at 6 May 2016.
Please see the Financial Shortly after my appointment, the Board reviewed and endorsed the Groups Review section of this report for further commentary on our capital management strategy.
As I have considered the Group, I see its strategy as having four distinct considerations and dividend policy.
layers: excellent execution of our core business strategy in Capital Formation, Risk and Balance Sheet Management and Intellectual Property: the identification, Corporate responsibility development and delivery of innovative initiatives: continued expansion through As a global organisation, we understand that our responsibilities go beyond partnership and acquisition: and developing a global relevance through our unique finance.
We seek to encourage growth and expand opportunities and we open access philosophy.
are committed to doing so through four channels: Our markets promoting the dynamic companies and asset classes Since year end, the Group has also confirmed detailed talks of a potential all-share that will ensure long-term economic prosperity merger of equals with Deutsche Brse.
Should the potential merger proceed, the Combined Group would be a UK plc, domiciled in London.
The Board considers that Our services enabling investors to make informed and sustainable the value creating opportunities of the combination are substantial and would investment decisions create a leading European-based global markets infrastructure group with Our people recruiting and supporting on the basis of talent significant customer benefits.
Discussions between the parties remain ongoing regarding the other terms and conditions and there can be no certainty a And in our surrounding communities we are helping young people develop transaction will occur.
We will keep shareholders updated and any transaction the skills to drive positive change for themselves and those around them would be subject to LSEG shareholder approval, Deutsche Brse shareholder acceptance, as well as regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.
In the past year, the Group donated over 2.1 million to charities with employees also participating in a number of events with our partner charities around the world.
Our partner charities focus on helping to support the next generation and a full summary of our activities can be found on page 36 as well as in our standalone Corporate Responsibility Report, which can be accessed from our website: www.
4 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Governance Conclusion Elsewhere in this report, I share my thoughts on the role governance plays There are, of course, many risks in the global economy and uncertainty over in ensuring shareholders assets are properly stewarded.
And indeed the shape of Europes risk profile is changing the relative stability of the Cold War has given way to increased volatility and The foundations of governance are strong and I am delighted that the Board unpredictability in geo political events.
has been joined by Lex Hoogduin, Mary Schapiro and David Nish, whose 3 different geographic bases and nationalities reflect the changing footprint of the Under the able leadership of our Chief Executive, Xavier Rolet, the Group is in business.
They bring, amongst many other skills, risk management, regulatory a strong position globally and all of us with good reason can look forward to understanding and financial leadership to the Board.
I thank all those who contributed to the success in 2015 through their dedication and hard work.
My predecessor left big shoes to fill and I would like to record my gratitude to Chris Gibson-Smith for all his years of service to the Group.
He had some very turbulent years through which to navigate and he leaves behind a Group whose strength and global relevance are hugely enhanced.
Donald Brydon During 2015, we also lost the services of Robert Webb after 14 years as well as Chairman Joanna Shields on her appointment to government.
Massimo Tononi also left the 4 March 2016 Board following his appointment as Chairman of Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA.
They will each be missed for their positive contribution and wise counsel.
On behalf of the Board, I thank them all.
Recognising the recent rapid expansion of the Group, the Board has agreed to strengthen the governance in 2016 by forming both Regulatory and Technology Advisory Groups to ensure the Board has access to the best possible advice.
This will enable Directors to draw on experience from outside the Board in the important areas of technology and regulation.
The Board recognises the benefit throughout the Group of having access to the diversity of input from a wide range of backgrounds, nationalities and genders.
This is reflected at Board level by the diverse backgrounds of the Directors.
In 2015, the Group established a Womens Inspired Network WIN to support women globally across the Group, as well as to support women and girls in our local communities.
