STRATEGIC REPORT C H A IR M A N S STAT E M E N T Conditions may of course change and we will Jon Aisbitt review this decision throughout the year.
Chairman BOARD CHANGES After almost nine years as Chairman I will retire from the Board at the AGM in May.
It has been a privilege to lead the Board through a period of very substantial change for Man and I feel that I am leaving the Group in capable hands.
We have in place a strong executive team who over the past three years have created a more diversified business with multiple options for growth, and improved the Groups operational and capital efficiency.
I am delighted that Ian Livingston Lord Livingston of Parkhead is to succeed me as Chairman, subject to his reappointment by shareholders at the AGM.
Ian joined the Man Group Board in January with almost two OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR We spent time assessing the performance of decades of board level FTSE 100 experience, 2015, and the second half of the year in the new investment management talent that most recently as Group Chief Executive Officer particular, was a period of extreme volatility has been hired into the business over the past of BT Group Plc BT from 2008 to 2013.
He across all asset classes, heavily influenced by few years, particularly at GLG.
We are pleased has been a serving member of the UK House of political and economic uncertainty in China and that a number of the hires have built compelling Lords since 2013 and was previously Minister globally.
This created challenging trading and track records and are starting to see traction of State for Trade and Investment for the UK performance conditions for Man and tested from an asset raising perspective.
Government from December 2013 to May 2015. investor appetite for risk.
He brings with him experience of successfully Managing change is a key requirement in growing a complex international business and In this context, investment performance across todays fast moving markets and we recognise navigating regulatory environments around Mans range of strategies was reasonable and that succession planning and building a the world.
He has a strong track record of we recorded a small net inflow for the year.
As suitably deep and broad talent pool are key innovative leadership during a time of profound the headline results on the opposite page show, to our continued success.
The promotion of change for BT that will be invaluable to the Man we delivered solid profitability with adjusted management depth and ambition has been a Group Board and executive team.
management fee profits in line with 2014, and key area of focus during the year and we have performance fee profits down following a very spent time discussing with the executives their In January, Richard Berliand was appointed strong year for AHL in 2014.
The Board focuses ongoing work to promote career development as a non-executive director and member of on adjusted profit as this reflects the recurring and mobility of talent within the business.
It is revenue and costs that drive our cash flow intended that Richard will succeed Phillip generation.
Statutory profit was $184 million In addition, the Board has spent time discussing Colebatch as Chairman of the Remuneration compared to a statutory profit of $384 million people and the culture of the business, Committee following the AGM in May.
Richard in 2014 due to lower performance fee profits, encouraging management in its promotion brings over 30 years of experience in the an impairment of FRM goodwill at the half year of diversity at all levels of the business and financial services sector and has proved himself and an increase in the future earn-out payment monitoring the implementation and impact of a very capable leader during an extremely to Numeric as the acquisition has performed Mans set of core business values.
An employee challenging period for the industry.
He will be a significantly better than expected.
survey was undertaken during the year and the highly valued adviser to our executive team.
Board reviewed, with management, the results BOARD FOCUS DURING 2015 of this survey and the actions that were being I should like to thank Mans employees for their With the cost reduction programme complete taken to address the key themes emerging.
dedication and hard work during my tenure and an improvement in the Groups capital as Chairman.
I am confident that I leave the efficiency, the focus of the Board during the DIVIDEND Group with an excellent Board and executive year centred on delivery of investment returns, In line with our previously stated policy, the team able to confront the challenges ahead and organic growth and talent management.
Board has announced a recommended final deliver value for shareholders.
dividend of 4.8 cents per share, subject to The Board spent a significant amount of time approval by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
JON AISBITT reviewing the progress and performance This year we have decided to retain all of the Chairman of the recently acquired businesses and surplus capital generated by the business managements delivery of value against to fund potential acquisitions.
We also monitored how well these proposed dividend, we currently have surplus businesses had been integrated onto the capital of approximately $480 million.
Last Man platform, ensuring that they were being year, management reviewed a large number of managed appropriately from an operational risk acquisition opportunities but were unable to find perspective.
We are particularly pleased with transactions on acceptable terms.
The Board the progress of the Numeric acquisition and believes that, given evolving market dynamics, that the smaller new businesses have added there is sufficient probability of finding attractive both scale and breadth to the product platform.
acquisitions to execute in 2016 that we have decided to retain all of our surplus capital.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 09 23978 Man AR15.
