2 T Th he e Mer Merc can ant tile ile In Inv vest estm men ent t T Tr ru ust st plc plc A An nn nu ual al R Repo epor rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 201 2015 5 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2015, performance was slightly disappointing.
The Managers marginally underperformed the Companys benchmark with a return of 4.4% against 4.6% for the benchmark.
Share price total return was 0.7%.
Returns and Dividends Earnings per share reduced over the year, from 47.5p to 42.1p, following lower revenue against the previous year.
This reduction has resulted from changes in the portfolio, a lowering of special dividend receipts and the level of gearing employed.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 8.0p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly interim dividend of 17.0p, giving a total dividend of 41.0p for the year, an increase on last years dividend of 40.0p.
The yield continues to compare favourably with the Companys small and mid cap investing peers.
In order to even out the flow of dividends paid during the year, the Board intends to increase the level of each of the three interim dividends from 8.0p to 10.0p per ordinary share throughout the current year ending 31st January 2016.
This is a rebalancing exercise and will not necessarily result in an increased total amount for the year.
The level of the fourth interim dividend will be determined by the Board towards the end of the financial year and will depend on the level of dividends received and anticipated by the Company.
The Board recognises the importance of a strong revenue reserve in protecting the dividend flow for shareholders.
The Company continues to receive an inflow of special dividends and to the extent that they are not distributed, they will assist in strengthening the balance sheet.
Share Buy backs and Discount During the year under review a total of 536,084 shares were repurchased for cancellation, amounting to 0.55% of issued share capital at the beginning of the year, at a total cost of 7.93 million.
Share buy backs during the year under review have added approximately 1.3p to the net asset value per share.
The Boards objective continues to be to use the share repurchase authority to manage imbalances between the supply and demand of the Companys shares, thereby reducing the volatility of the discount.
The discount widened during the year from 9.8% to 14.6%, in common with many of our peers.
The Board believes that, to date, this mechanism has been helpful and therefore proposes and recommends that the powers to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares for cancellation be renewed for a further period.
Gearing The Company ended the year with net cash of 0.9%.
During the year the gearing varied between8.7% geared and 3.7% net cash.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate within the range of 10% net cash to 20% geared, under normal market conditions.
Gearing is regularly discussed between the Board and the Investment Manager.
In addition to the Companys debenture gearing, the Company took out a three year bank facility on 6th November 2013 of 50 million, with Scotiabank Ireland.
Board I am delighted that Sandy Nairn has agreed to take on the role of the Senior Independent Director, with effect from 3rd December 2014.
Harry Morley was appointed a Director at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting, and he will stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
It is planned that he will become Chairman of the Audit Committee from the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
I would particularly like to thank Ian Russell on behalf of the Board for the excellent work he has performed as Chairman of the Audit Committee, a role which he has carried out with distinction for eight years.
All other Directors will stand for annual re-election, in line with the Companys policy.
I refer you to the Directors biographies on pages 22 and 23 for further details.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3 The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its performance, and that of the individual Directors including myself as the Chairman.
The Directors conduct an assessment of the structure of the Board and the Boards performance each year, which is compiled into a report to the Nomination Committee which in turn reports its conclusions to the Board.
An external facilitator was used in 2014, details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Investment Managers During the year under review, the Companys investment management team appointed by J. P. Morgan comprised Martin Hudson, Guy Anderson and Anthony Lynch.
Since the year end some changes have been implemented, resulting in Guy Anderson and Martin Hudson each taking responsibility for 50% of the portfolio and Guy Anderson taking responsibility for communications with the Board.
Anthony Lynch works across the whole portfolio.
They are supported by Tim Lewis, an analyst, as well as the J. P. Morgan Asset Management European Equity Group.
These changes have been put in place by J. P. Morgan as part of a planned evolutionary process of the management of the Companys assets.
The Board will continue to monitor the performance of the Manager on a regular basis.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty ninth Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 20th May 2015 at 12 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of J. P. Morgan.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Outlook Following two years of exceptional returns, last year saw volatility increase and markets consolidate gains as geopolitical events took centre stage, overshadowing the UK economys strongest year since before the recession.
Looking forward it now seems that the recent decline in the oil price and ongoing excess supply issues are likely to be a net positive for the UK domestic economy and in particular should favour smaller companies over the FTSE 100 which is more heavily weighted towards natural resource companies.
Global GDP growth by contrast has continued to disappoint, with conflict in Ukraine, Greek economic instability and slowing growth in China all concerning investors.
Central banks have increasingly looked to further rate cuts and quantitative easing in order to stimulate economies and avoid deflation.
In the UK, companies and investors have already moved their focus to what is currently being described as the most uncertain General Election in almost a century.
Although the Company has remained virtually ungeared since the year end, the Managers feel there are likely to be opportunities for enhanced stock picking and utilising the Companys gearing in the coming 12 months.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 27th March 2015 For further information, please contact: Juliet Dearlove For and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited Company Secretary 020 7742 4000 4 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report Market Background Contributions to total returns in Last year was a turbulent, but ultimately positive, year for the UK equity the year ended 31st January market.
The preceding two years had provided exceptional returns for 2015 investors in small and medium-sized companies, as the market re-rated % in anticipation of an improving economic environment that would Benchmark total return 4.6 facilitate higher company profits.
To achieve continued positive returns Stock Asset through calendar year 2014, the market would thus require delivery of selection allocation 1.2 these expectations.
Against this background, and given the broader Cost of Gearing Cash effect 0.4 macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties, an increase in volatility Effect of Management was thus anticipated.
fee Other Expenses 0.5 Cost of debentures 0.6 The key annual results season through the first quarter of the year was disappointing, and this, combined with political uncertainty, speculation Repurchase of shares for cancellation 0.1 about when interest rates would rise and global deflationary pressure Return on net assets 4.4 halted further market progress.
In addition, renewed investor interest in Effect of increase in discount 5.1 larger companies following bid approaches from the US for Shire and Return to shareholders -0.7 AstraZeneca, marked the beginning of a six month period through which the small and medium-sized companies underperformed the broader Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Morningstar.
The table provides a breakdown, market.
relative to the benchmark, of the The market remained volatile through the summer, before weakening contributions to total return.
substantially in September and October after a string of disappointing A glossary of terms and definitions is economic indicators at home and abroad, a lull in the domestic housing provided on page 66. recovery, global deflationary pressures and lingering uncertainty over Central Bank actions around the world.
In addition, the US enforced new laws prohibiting tax inversion deals, reducing the financial logic for a number of takeovers of UK firms and this became reflected in share prices, particularly among larger pharmaceuticals companies.
In the final quarter of the year, small and medium-sized companies rallied, supported by weakening oil prices.
As a net importer of resources, lower prices have provided an unexpected boost to UK GDP projections.
Furthermore, it has had the additional effect of lowering inflation projections, increasing the likelihood of interest rates being held lower for longer.
Given their lower relative commodity exposure, small and medium-sized companies also outperformed their larger peers through this period, regaining much of the earlier underperformance.
Portfolio Performance Your Company produced a total return on net assets of 4.4% for the year ended 31st January 2015.
This compares to the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All-Share index excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment companies, which returned 4.6%.
The Companys discount to its net asset value widened through the year, resulting in a return to shareholders of 0.7%.
Earnings per share for the year fell to 42.1p 2014: 47.5p reflecting a reduced level of income received from investments.
This was primarily due to three factors.
First, ordinary dividends collected by the fund fell as the portfolio was repositioned towards a number of recent new issues that did not pay full dividends for the year.
Secondly, special dividends fell as we reduced our position in Housebuilders, a number of which have been returning significant amounts of cash.
Thirdly, the portfolio was in aggregate less geared through the year, which affects the amount of dividends collected.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5 The bar chart shows the relative contributions to performance for the year for the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The green bars to the right show positive contributors relative to the benchmark index and reflect both sector weighting and stock selection, whilst the blue bars to the left show the negative relative contributors.
Sector Performance Contribution Analysis, Year to 31st January 2015 0% Top 5 0.94% General Retailers 0.57% Oil Equipment, Services and Distribution 0.52% Food Producers Household Goods & Home Construction 0.43% 0.39% Electronic & Electrical Equipment Bottom 5 0.24% Gas, Water & Multi-utilities 0.29% Industrial Metals & Mining 0.43% Financial Services 1.45% Real Estate Investment Trusts Support Services 1.51% Relative Contribution Source: J. P. Morgan Asset Management, B-One.
The largest positive contributor to performance was our overweight position in the General Retailers sector.
This was a sector to which we added exposure as the year progressed, reflecting primarily stock specific opportunities, including several new issues, but also motivated by an increasingly positive view of the outlook for UK consumer spending, resulting from projected increases in household cash flows.
Dixons Carphone was the largest positive contributor to the fund, and resulted from the merger of two of our existing holdings.
We viewed both the financial and strategic rationale for the transaction as compelling, and this remains a significant holding.
Our negative positioning in the Oil Equipment, Services and Distribution sector contributed positively as the share prices of a number of companies which we do not hold, including Amec Foster Wheeler, were impacted by the rapidly declining oil price through the fourth quarter.
Having been the largest negative contributor last year, food producers also performed well, principally due to the performance of New Britain Palm Oil which agreed to a takeover approach at an 85% premium.
The largest detractor from performance was the Support Services sector, driven by our holding in Serco, which is no longer held.
This investment was made based upon the expectation that whilst it would take time, the new management team would successfully restructure the business, re-establish its position as a UK government outsourcer, and generate significant improvements to profits and cash flows.
In the event, the problems uncovered were greater than anticipated, necessitating an expected substantial capital raise and lowering our long-term financial expectations for the business and thus impairing its value.
Portfolio Positioning The investment managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 10% net cash to 20% geared, with a more specific tactical range agreed regularly with the Board.
Following two years of exceptional market returns and during which your Company benefitted from being geared, reflecting our 6 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued expectations of a more volatile environment as explained above gearing was reduced such that for the majority of the year the portfolio remained fully invested, albeit un-geared.
This is illustrated in the chart below, which shows the level of gearing on the left axis, against market levels on the right axis, for the past three years.
FTSE All-Share ex 100 ex IT total return index RHS.
Source: J. P. Morgan Asset Management, Datastream.
The portfolio continues to be diversified across all sectors and comprises 131 stocks, of which 86 are mid-sized and 45 are smaller companies, which by value account for 17% of the portfolio.
The ten largest investments represent approximately 19% of net assets.
This was a year of significant change for the portfolio, as we recycled capital out of some of our longstanding investments into new ideas.
This can be seen from the ten largest holdings, as shown on page 12, as Jardine Lloyd Thompson is the only one that featured last year.
Our significant position in the Housebuilders, which accounted for six of the ten largest holdings last year, was reduced following several years of market outperformance.
In addition, following promotion into the FTSE 100, we exited in full from our holdings in Mondi and St. Jamess Place.
New investments were sourced from our existing universe of stocks, such as William Hill and First Group, and from the new issues that came to market, such as SSP Group, TSB Banking Group and B&M European Value Retail.
The other new entrants to the top ten were already substantial holdings within the portfolio.
The overall changes to the positioning of the portfolio are illustrated in the table below, which shows how the portfolios exposure has shifted such that the General Retailers sector is now the largest overweight sector.
This reflects bottom-up stock selection combined with a top-down view that UK cyclical indicators, such as employment trends, wage growth and the oil price, are positive for consumers.
This overweight position of domestic consumer stocks is funded by underweight positions in resources and resource exposed industries, where the outlook is currently weaker, given the rapid falls in commodity prices towards the end of last year.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7 Top 10 Sector Active Positions Portfolio weights relative to the benchmark weight, January 2014 and January 2015 31st January 2014 31st January 2015 Household Goods & Home 10.8% 6.6% General Retailers Construction Nonlife Insurance 2.7% 5.7% Nonlife Insurance General Retailers 1.5% 3.1% Financial Services Oil & Gas Producers 1.3% 3.0% Support Services Support Services 1.1% 1.7% Food Producers 1.6% 1.7% Construction & Materials Mining 2.0% 2.0% Food & Drug Retailers Real Estate Investment & Services 3.0% 2.3% Chemicals Chemicals 3.1% 2.6% Travel & Leisure Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 3.2% Electronic & Electrical Equipment 2.8% Industrial Engineering Source: J. P. Morgan Asset Management, Factset.
Geographic Revenue Exposures Rest of World Middle 10% East & Africa 2% Asia 7% Americas 11% UK 55% Europe 15% Source: J. P. Morgan Asset Management, Bloomberg data, Company data.
The pie chart above shows, by geography, where the revenues of the companies in which the portfolio is invested are generated.
Whilst more than half of this revenue is derived from the UK, there is still material exposure to international growth opportunities through UK quoted mid and small sized companies.
Whilst, for example, the focus of the general retailers is in the UK domestic market, the portfolios investments in insurance, manufacturing, telecommunications and food ingredients companies provide broad international exposure.
8 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued Outlook There were a number of events in 2014 that shaped how the overall market and individual stocks performed.
In hindsight, the surprise decision of OPEC, driven by Saudi Arabia, to hold crude oil production levels unchanged was certainly one of the more significant.
This decision led to a 40% fall in the price of crude oil in just two months, resulting in a near 60% fall from the peak of $115 per barrel of Brent crude in June to the trough of $46 in January.
All market changing events have repercussions, but this was the catalyst for an accelerated shift in the shape of the portfolio as outlined above, and informs our outlook for the current year.
The UK is a net importer of energy and whilst there are a multitude of second order effects, this reduction in import costs is positive for the UK consumer and for UK GDP.
The price of commodities declining has a temporary downward effect on inflation, which in turn has two clear derivatives.
First, it increases the likelihood of consumers experiencing real wage growth for the first time in the last five years.
Second, it pushes out, for a period of time, the point at which interest rate tightening will commence.
The combination of these factors has made us incrementally more positive on the outlook for household cash flows and consumer discretionary expenditure, and consequently for those companies, such as retailers, that will benefit from this directly.
Conversely, this dramatic fall in the price of crude oil is negative for those companies that are positively correlated to the commodity price.
As a result, and given our view that this is not yet fully reflected in valuations and earnings expectations, we are currently negatively positioned in energy and related industries.
However this situation is monitored closely, as a time will come when it will be prudent to reverse this positioning.
In addition to the factors above that are most clearly and directly influencing current portfolio positioning, there are many other elements that affect your Companys overall exposure to the market.
The timing of the US interest rate cycle, the EU entering a period of Quantitative Easing and thus driving demand for higher risk assets in the search for yield, the growing geopolitical tensions with Russia or across the Middle East, and the unusually uncertain outcome from the UK General Election are a few such factors.
While viewing the next 12 months with more optimism we remain cognisant of such exogenous risks, and so the portfolio is fully invested but un-geared.
This leaves capacity to deploy further capital into the market in the event of increased volatility presenting an opportunity, as confidence in growth increases or as these risks unwind.
We believe that the favourable dynamics of investing in small and medium-sized companies will continue to drive superior returns over the long-term.
Guy Anderson Martin Hudson Anthony Lynch Investment Managers 27th March 2015
