Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 16 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement of the Companys year was, with some very minor exceptions, Performance positioned as the new portfolio management team wished.
In the year to 30 April 2015 the net asset value NAV total return Further details on the Managers investment approach and the capital and income, with borrowings at fair value, was 13.0% portfolio are set out on pages 3 to 11. and the share price total return was 18.8%.
Over the same period the total return for the FTSE World Index was 18.0%.
Buybacks and Discount Geographic allocation was a notable detractor to relative During the year to 30 April 2015 55.1m was spent buying back performance over the financial year, accounting for 3.6 13.9m shares at a discount to NAV, representing 6.1% of the percentage points of underperformance.
Good stock selection in shares in issue at the start of the year.
Emerging Markets and Japan was offset by poor relative returns The discount at fair value ended the financial year at 8.6% in the UK, North America and Europe ex UK.
The relative compared to 13.0% at the prior year end.
The narrowing occurred overweight to the UK market was also unhelpful, as was our Oil towards the end of the period and reflected the markets reaction and Gas exposure, with Enquest, Seadrill, North Atlantic Drilling following the change in portfolio management responsibilities and IGas Energy in particular performing poorly.
The Board monitors the level of Earnings and Dividend discount and has authorised the repurchase of shares when this will be of benefit to continuing shareholders.
Earnings per share were 4.74p compared with 4.87p the previous year, a decrease of 2.7%.
Monks invests with the aim of achieving Gearing capital growth rather than income and all costs are charged to the During the second half of the year the Company made use of its Revenue Account.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of short term loan facilities and at the year end the Company had 3.45p, which together with the interim 0.50p already paid, would drawings of 15.5bn with National Australia Bank Limited and make the total dividend for the year 3.95p, unchanged from the effective gearing, net of cash, stood at 7.2%.
At this stage, we are expecting a lower earnings bonds, the Company was ungeared to equities at its year end.
figure for the current year.
The Board and new portfolio managers have held discussions on Change in Portfolio Management Responsibilities the use of gearing and concluded that, at present, the gearing In 2013, the Board and the Managers undertook a thorough range should be 5% net cash to plus 10% invested in equities, review of the causes of the Companys relative underperformance achieved through utilising borrowings.
The portfolio managers are in recent years.
Actions were taken to improve performance, at liberty to move freely within these parameters without the prior including the strengthening of the team managing the portfolio.
However, as equity valuations have run Although there were some initial encouraging signs, performance hard recently, gearing is not being deployed immediately.
Gearing did not improve markedly.
parameters are reviewed at each Board meeting.
More recently, I have met a number of shareholders who wished to Outlook discuss the Companys performance and portfolio management Charles Plowden and his colleagues are long-term fundamental arrangements, independently of the Managers.
During the course growth investors.
While cognisant of the macroeconomic of these meetings, it became apparent to me that these environment and the impact that market sentiment might have on shareholders supported the Boards view that Baillie Gifford were individual stocks in the short term, it will be company held in high regard as investment trust managers, but that fundamentals that drive longer term portfolio returns.
The Board is patience was waning with the existing portfolio management team.
confident that the portfolio will benefit from this approach.
Following further formal review, the Board took the decision to The Board appoint a different portfolio management team within Baillie Gifford.
As a result, since 27 March 2015 Monks has been Jeremy Tigue joined the Board on 30 September 2014 and was managed by Charles Plowden, supported by Spencer Adair and appointed Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee on Malcolm MacColl: they are all members of Baillie Giffords Global 1 May 2015.
He has extensive experience of the management Alpha investment team, which has a well established process of investment trusts and his biographical details are set out on and strong performance record.
They are all Partners at Baillie page 17.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, Mr Tigue will Gifford and have been working together since 2005.
Charles is be submitted for election at the forthcoming AGM.
one of two joint senior partners.
AGM It is important to note that the Companys investment policy and I encourage shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting, objective have not altered as a result of this change in portfolio which will be held on 4 August 2015 at 11.00am at the Institute of responsibilities.
The Companys goal remains long-term capital Directors see map on page 49.
Our portfolio managers will give growth, by investing globally and principally in equities.
a short presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask Approximately 56% of the Companys portfolio by value was questions and to meet the managers and Directors informally.
reorganised following the announced changes and as at the end James Ferguson 16 June 2015 Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
