Strategic Report Chairmans Statement facing deflationary forces with severely weakened commodity prices, especially oil, and a Chinese economy performing much less well than expected.
When the long anticipated tightening of US monetary policy eventually occurred, it was accompanied by widespread criticism of its timing and necessity, and Federal Reserve Chairman Yellen has recently testified to Congress that future rate rises are being deferred for now.
Subsequently, Japan has sunk back into recession and China is in the process of Kevin Carter attempting a controlled devaluation of its currency to Chairman shore up economic growth.
The weakness of the Chinese economy magnified the severe decline in commodities as Performance China has been the major consumer of these in recent I am disappointed to report that the Companys Net Asset years.
Countries with high dependence on exports to Value NAV not only underperformed its benchmark in China, either of manufactured goods or commodities, 2015 but also declined in absolute terms.
NAV total suffered growth and currency declines.
Similar conditions return of 7.8% inclusive of a 3.3% dividend increase unfortunately also prevailed throughout Europe.
Again, compared unfavourably with a benchmark total return of expectations were initially high but gradually deflated over 2.6%.
In recent annual statements, both I and the time, even though the European Central Bank continued Manager have emphasised a firm focus on capital its money printing intervention.
Towards year end preservation in the construction of the portfolio, and it is decelerating growth in Germany, so long the global gold therefore a particular frustration that this has not been standard of export-led efficiency, sparked additional achieved.
There are numerous reasons for this outcome uncertainty over what is next for Europe.
The question as and the Investment Management Review on page 15 to whether or not the UK should remain in the EU entered contains an attribution analysis which shows the factors the political debate in 2015 but during that early stage affecting NAV performance.
seemed to have little impact on the economy.
Instead, expectations over imminent domestic interest rate rises The benchmark total return was positively affected dominated the first half of the year, only to dissipate and primarily by the performance of United States equities and disappear as growth slowed.
Even so, persistent strength to a lesser extent by Japanese equities.
The Company is in Sterling continued with its adverse effects on UK export underweight in both these relatively lower yielding manufacturers, as well as negatively affecting revenue and markets.
Beyond that, numerous global equity markets capital value translation into the Company.
Against such declined in Sterling terms with particularly severe a backdrop, preserving the capital of the Company proved corrections in companies exposed to the energy, problematic given its diversified approach and income commodities, utilities and industrial sectors.
portfolio holdings are in countries and stock markets which were especially affected by these trends.
In Dividends addition, performance also suffered from a number of Three interim dividends of 10.5p 2014: three interims of specific stock developments, and details of these can be 10.0p have been declared during the year.
Your Board is found in the Investment Management Review on page 15. now recommending a final dividend of 15.0p 2014: 15.0p which, subject to the approval of shareholders at the For the third consecutive year, the Companys greater Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 18 May 2016 to geographical diversification and focus on above average shareholders on the register on 8 April 2016.
Subject to yield proved detrimental to relative total performance, approval of the final dividend, the total Ordinary dividend even though revenue generation continued to be robust.
for the year will amount to 46.5p, an increase of 3.3% from last year 2014: 45.0p.
B Ordinary shareholders will Background receive their capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares at The beginning of 2015 saw a widespread belief that the US the same time as each dividend is paid.
Accordingly, Federal Reserve would raise interest rates in response to subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, B strong US economic growth, a perception that the worst Ordinary shareholders will be issued on 18 May 2016 with was over for Europe and anticipation that Japan was at last new B Ordinary shares equivalent in NAV to the following an economic prescription which would alleviate recommended final dividend for the year just ended.
The its long period of stagnation.
For a time this buoyed up payment of the final dividend will necessitate a small financial assets in these regions but, as the year transfer from the Companys brought forward revenue progressed, it became apparent that the world was also reserves of approximately 580,000.
4 Annual Report 2015 that are due to mature in May 2016 and the Directors are B Ordinary Share Conversion Circular to in the process of reviewing options for those facilities.
Shareholders Shareholders attention is drawn to the Circular that Management Arrangements accompanies this Annual Report and which contains details of, and the reasons for, recommended proposals for Following a review initiated by your Board, the Board and the final conversion of the B Ordinary shares into Ordinary the Manager are pleased to have agreed a restructuring of shares and related amendments to the Articles of the management fee arrangements for the Company.
"performance fee is being discontinued and the annual management fee will now be charged on the net assets ie excluding borrowings for investment purposes ""Net Management of Premium and Discount Assets"", on a tiered basis."
These changes will not affect At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2015, the way that the Company's assets are managed over shareholders renewed the annual authorities to issue up to time.
10% of the Companys issued share capital for cash at a premium and to buy back up to 14.99% of the issued Previously the base level of the annual management fee share capital at a discount.
During the year, we issued was set at 0.5% of net assets including borrowings for 130,000 new shares.
The Board will be seeking approval investment purposes.
From 2016 onwards the annual fee from shareholders to renew both authorities in 2016 and, will be charged at 0.575% of Net Assets up to 1,200 as in previous years, new shares would only be issued at a million, 0.5% of Net Assets between 1,200 million and premium to NAV and shares would only be bought back at 1,400 million, and 0.425% of Net Assets above 1,400 a discount to NAV.
Resolutions to this effect will be million.
At present levels of gearing and Net Assets this is a proposed at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors small fee reduction but the reduction becomes greater strongly encourage shareholders to support this proposal.
once Net Assets exceed 1,200 million, and greater still above 1,400 million.
As I indicated at the interim stage in August, the Board continues to believe that it is appropriate to seek to We are also changing the termination notice period of the address temporary imbalances of supply and demand for management contract from 12 months to 6 months, more the Company's shares which might otherwise result in a in keeping with market practice.
The above arrangements recurring material discount.
Subject to shareholder will take effect from 1 January 2016.
I am pleased that this permission and prevailing market conditions over time, the collaborative exercise between the Board and the Manager Board intends to buy back shares if they trade at a has produced a beneficial outcome for shareholders.
persistent discount to NAV excluding income.
As with issuance, the Board believes that this process is in all Annual General Meeting shareholders interests as it seeks to reduce volatility in the This years Annual General Meeting will be held in London premium discount to underlying NAV whilst also making a on 26 April 2016 at 12.30 p. m. at the Mermaid Conference small positive contribution to the NAV.
Subsequent to the Centre, Puddle Dock, London EC4V 3DB.
As at previous period end, we have purchased 601,163 shares in the AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and market at a discount to the underlying NAV and these an opportunity to meet the Directors and Manager over shares are being held in treasury.
At the time of writing lunch.
I should be grateful if you would confirm your the exclusive of income NAV per share was 885.2p and the attendance by completing the separate notice that will share price was 870.0p equating to a discount of 1.7% per accompany the Annual Report and returning it together Ordinary share.
with an indication of any particular questions.
I hope as many shareholders as possible will be able to attend.
Gearing At year end, total borrowings amounted to the equivalent Directorate of 194 million representing net gearing calculated by Having served as a Director since 2003, Lady Balfour has dividing the total assets less cash by shareholders funds indicated that she intends to retire from the Board at the of 17.4% 2014: 13.8% of which approximately 9 million conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 26 April has been drawn in Yen with the remainder drawn in 2016 and will not be seeking re-election.
During the year the Company entered into a new fellow Directors I should like to take this opportunity to 50 million loan facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland thank Lady Balfour for her considerable contribution to the plc RBS which was drawn in full on 13 May 2015 and affairs of the Company, and wise counsel over the years fixed for five years at an all-in rate of 2.4975%.
The new including her chairing of the Remuneration Committee, facility was used to repay a maturing Yen 8.4 billion loan and more recently her assistance in the role of Senior with RBS.
The Company has loans totalling 24 million Murray International Trust PLC 5 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued Independent Director.
The Board is in the process of Supported by abundant liquidity and dwindling alternative undertaking a detailed search for her replacement using options, investors have been prepared to pay higher and the services of an independent external recruitment higher prices for equities.
Low yielding growth stocks have consultancy and expects to update shareholders on the constantly and consistently outperformed higher yielding outcome of that process in due course.
With effect from value stocks with sectors such as biotechnology, the conclusion of the AGM, Mr Best has agreed to become healthcare and technology leading the indices higher.
Senior Independent Director and Mr Dunscombe has agreed to become Chairman of the Remuneration Against this backdrop, the Companys yield focused, value Committee.
conscious, diversified portfolio style has struggled to keep up.
The question is how likely and long this will continue.
Whatever the answer, sufficient cracks are widening in the Viability Statement global financial system to suggest great caution is For the first time this year your Board is required to assess warranted.
Protecting capital and income in such a the viability of the Company.
In assessing the viability we financial world will not be straightforward.
At the time of have looked out over a five year period which we believe is writing, on a total return basis, year to date NAV has risen appropriate for the Company given its longer term 8.1% while the Companys benchmark index has declined investment mandate and the composition of the portfolio.
In formulating our opinion contained in the Viability Statement on page 11, the Directors have reviewed the Your Board has conducted a strategic review with the Companys principal risks, liquidity of the portfolio, the Manager to consider its response to these difficult timing of debt maturities and likely demand for the conditions and continues to believe in the principles of Companys shares.
broad portfolio diversification, emphasis on high quality businesses and focusing on companies with strong balance Outlook sheets.
The Board and the Manager remain committed to 2016 has begun with considerable market volatility as this approach as the best portfolio strategy to pursue in investors attempt to decipher the complex economic and order to achieve the Companys investment objective.
We have had several years of stock market performance characterised by Kevin Carter divergence between performance and fundamentals.
A Chairman relentless rise in equity market valuations without the 11 March 2016 support of profit growth has occurred simultaneously with an evident deterioration in economic fundamentals.
