Strategic report 04 CHAIRMANS MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS 2015 was a year of change and momentum for the Group.
We delivered a strong result in spite of a number of headwinds Patrick OSullivan Chairman HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR Adjusted operating earnings per share of 19.3p, up 15% in constant currency Bruce Hemphill joined the Company as our new Group Chief Executive Our new strategy offers an appropriate way of preserving and creating value for the future OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Alongside this years results, we have considerable debt to the loyal employees 05 announced the Groups capital position whose efforts have shaped the evolution under the Solvency II regime, which of the Group.
I am sure that they, customers came into effect from 1 January 2016. and shareholders alike will recognise the Our Solvency II ratio at the end of 2015, at logic behind our decision and can look 135%, while satisfactory, does not include forward to the opportunity to create 0.8 billion of surplus at Old Mutual long-term shareholder value in the next Emerging Markets and Nedbank.
The phase in the evolution of Old Mutual.
solvency capital position of each of our More details about this new strategic underlying businesses remains robust.
direction are included in the later sections of this Report.
Board developments As part of our transition through the Towards the end of 2015, we welcomed implementation phase for this new strategy, Bruce Hemphill as our new Group Chief we anticipate that the Groups Operating Executive.
He assumed his position at the Model will evolve from its current strategic beginning of November.
controller model to an active portfolio We were also pleased to welcome Trevor manager model.
We will also be Manuel, the former South African Finance OLD MUTUAL IS PROUD addressing during the months ahead the Minister, who joined the Board as a implications of this new strategy for the OF ITS ROOTS IN non-executive director from January 2016. respective roles of the holding company SOUTH AFRICA and subsidiary boards.
After 15 years on the Board, firstly as Group Finance Director and from 2007 Conclusion as Group Chief Executive, Julian Roberts The volatile market conditions experienced transitioned out of his position during the since the start of this year, together with The Group has evolved year.
My colleagues and I wish to thank reduced international flows into emerging to reach a point today Julian sincerely for his successful turnaround markets, have clouded the outlook for 2016. where we have four of the Group during one of the most Given the challenges ahead, we believe leading businesses difficult financial market environments our new strategy offers an appropriate of recent decades.
We wish him every way of preserving and creating value success in the years ahead.
I look forward to keeping Paul Hanratty, our Chief Operating Officer, shareholders and other stakeholders informed as we make progress with the will step down from the Board on 12 March implementation of our plans.
2016, but he will remain available to the Group, providing advice to the Group Finally, I would like to express, on behalf of Chief Executive and, until a successor is the Board, our heartfelt appreciation for appointed, as Chairman of Old Mutual the contribution of the Groups employees Overview of the year Emerging Markets.
during a continuing period of change.
2015 was a year of change and momentum Without their efforts, we would not now for the Group.
We delivered a strong result Strategic review have the opportunities we believe are vital in spite of a number of headwinds, in Old Mutual is an iconic South African to the future of our four businesses.
particular volatility in the equity markets institution with a heritage of which it during the second half of the year and the remains justifiably proud.
From its roots Patrick OSullivan marked depreciation of the rand a key as the premier financial services group in Chairman emerging markets currency.
South Africa, it has evolved through the listing in London to reach a point today Our adjusted operating earnings per share where we have four leading businesses.
were 19.3 pence, 15% higher than in 2014 on a constant currency basis.
After much careful thought, we have taken the important decision that the best interests Our net IFRS profit after tax was 5% up on of shareholders will be served by enabling the prior year a satisfactory result, given these businesses to chart independent the level of our investment in new businesses courses over the medium term.
931m AOP post-tax and NCI OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
