STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to present P2P Global Investments plcs second Annual Report, for the year to 31 December 2015.
The Company followed through its successful IPO and raised over 670m of additional equity capital through three issuances in 2015 on the back of strong investor interest in the product and robust investment opportunities in the alternative and direct lending space.
2015 has proved to be a challenging year for both equity and debt markets with the FTSE All Share Index declining by 2.5% since the start of the year and most market commentators revising downward their dividend expectations for 2016.
Geopolitical tensions, an economic slowdown in emerging markets, Chinas devaluation of its currency, a decline in commodity prices and uncertainties over US interest rates contributed to heightened volatility in the markets.
Over the year the Companys ordinary share price declined by 14.7% closing the year at 1007p and the price for the C shares issued in July 2015 declined by 5.1% closing the year at 978p.
The total NAV per share return was 6.56% for the ordinary shares and 0.99% for the C shares in 2015.
The Company paid a total dividend of 59.2p per ordinary share in 2015: the average NAV of the ordinary share class during the year was 338m with 20.69m of total dividends declared for the year.
The ordinary shares thus delivered a yield of 6.12% in dividends on the average NAV for the year and achieved the lower end of its target range.
The Company looks forward to delivering incremental returns to its shareholders as it achieves its target gearing during 2016.
The Company will continue to execute its leverage strategy with a view to diversify its sources of funding.
To further its objectives, in December 2015 the Company entered into a 150,000,000 secured 3-year multicurrency corporate debt facility with a consortium of institutional lenders.
This facility will add valuable diversity and flexibility to the Companys funding options in 2016.
INVESTMENTS With increasing availability of loans from Platforms that the Company has existing relationships with, and the addition of new Platforms, the Companys monthly deployment has been increasing month on month.
The Company is now in a position to comfortably deploy over 100m per month and is confident of achieving its target gearing ratio between 90% and 110%: debt to equity over the course of 2016.
Deployment diversification continues to be at the forefront of portfolio construction decisions with current credit asset exposure being geographically split 69% US 31% Europe and other geographies for the ordinary shares and 63% US 37% Europe and other geographies for the C shares.
In 2015, the Company also expanded its presence to Australasia: there, the underlying asset exposure remains predominantly geared towards consumer loans, in line with the overall market proportions.
The Company is continuously looking to diversify its portfolio and seeks attractive risk adjusted returns, to that end the Company has started to deploy its capital in loans backed by real estate.
The Company expects its portfolio to continue to evolve in 2016 to enhance diversification and meet the Companys strategic objectives.
COSTS The Companys ratio of ongoing charges for the year stands at 0.30% which is largely attributable to administration, advisory, legal and other set up costs incurred in establishing new Platform partnerships, leverage facilities and investing in unlisted equities.
SIGNIFICANT POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS The conversion of the July 2015 C shares took place on 21 March 2016 following the announcement of the 29 February 2016 NAV.
The NAVs attributable to the ordinary shares and the C shares as at the calculation date, being the close of business on 15 March 2016, were 1007.47p per ordinary share and 996.14p per C share respectively.
The conversion ratio, as calculated in accordance with the Company's articles of association and the prospectus dated 12 January 2015 was 0.9888 ordinary shares for every one C share held as at close on the conversion record date of 21 March 2016.
39,551,884 new ordinary shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange's main market for listed securities on 22 March 2016.
The Company's issued share capital now consists of 86,306,803 ordinary shares of 0.01 each with voting rights.
4 P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUTLOOK The world of high street banking has awoken to the challenge posed by innovative online lenders who have started to gain a noticeable market share both in the US and the UK.
Financial Institutions have reacted differently to the challenge: whilst some have chosen to deploy capital directly via Platforms, others have taken equity stakes, and some have forged distribution partnerships to securitise loans.
At the same time, banks continue to re-organise their balance sheets in light of Basel III and other regulations and are only now coming to terms with higher capital requirements, lower return on equity and correspondingly lower share prices.
As earnings decline, banks will continue to seek cost savings making investment in technology more challenging.
Platforms are likely to face additional regulatory scrutiny in 2016 as the FCA commences its full consumer credit licencing process for Platforms in the UK.
Whilst some newer Platforms may struggle, the more established players are expected to benefit as a result of additional validation from the regulator.
Increased regulatory costs may, however, prove to be a near term challenge for Platforms who typically have tight margins.
There is now significant momentum in many other countries: consequently the Company should be exposed to an increased opportunity set for investments in 2016.
In addition, new lending sub-sets are opening up to the same compelling economic forces that gave rise to the sector.
We are beginning to see Platforms make inroads into lending niches such as leasing, property development lending, trade finance and specialist secured lending.
Leverage has evolved at a rapid pace through 2015, and rated marketplace securitisations have become commonplace.
While it took some time and effort to set up the first facilities, we now see banks and insurance companies competing for our business and we are optimistic that 2016 will see us further diversify our funding sources.
More than ever before, yield opportunities are sparse in financial markets.
According to Bloomberg, a record $7 trillion in government 1 bonds are now trading at negative yields.
In non-investment grade credit, prices have declined due to investor concerns and uncertainty over credit risk.
The outlook for inflation remains benign and whilst unemployment has declined, meaningful rate increases in the shortterm are unlikely.
Despite the financial markets backdrop, the Company feels confident of its ability to deliver a stable dividend yield over the next 12 months.
Stuart Cruickshank Chairman 21 April 2016 1. http: www.
com news articles 2016-02-09  P2P GLOBAL INVESTMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 5
