A1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder I have the pleasure of introducing the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group for a year which has seen us make progress against our strategy with the expansion of Paragon Bank, enhancement of the Groups funding capacity, higher volumes and improved profits and returns to shareholders.
We have redesigned several aspects of this report and I hope you find the changes helpful.
The business The Group has continued to develop its business, described in section A2, in the twelve months.
Highlights included the expansion of the savings deposit base of Paragon Bank, the granting of an investment grade BBBrating to the Company by Fitch, the introduction of Scottish Robert G Dench buy-to-let lending and the growth of consumer lending activities.
Chairman The close of the year also saw preparation for the Groups launch of products to the development finance market.
Shortly after the year end the Groups acquisition of Five Arrows Leasing Group added significant new capability in SME asset finance to the Groups offerings.
The acquisition is expected to be immediately earnings enhancing and I look forward to this business developing as it is integrated into the Group.
The Groups business is described more fully in section A2 Results The growth in the Groups loan books, up 8.7% to 10,062.4 million, contributed to an increase in underlying profit by 10.2% to 134.7 million 2014: 122.2 million.
This led to earnings per share increasing by 11.3% to 35.5p 2014: 31.9p and underlying return on tangible equity reaching 12.1% 2014: 11.5%.
Funding was enhanced with three new mortgage securitisation issues, a retail bond issue and the increase of the Groups savings deposit base to 708.7 million from 60.1 million a year earlier.
The Groups capital position remains strong, with regulatory CET1 capital of 939.7 million 2014: 920.4 million and the CET1 ratio at 30 September 2015 at 19.1% 2014: 19.9%.
The financial results and operational performance are reviewed in section A3 Stakeholders The Group continues to be committed to acting in a socially responsible manner and I am pleased to confirm that the wages paid to our employees met the standards of the Living Wage, set by the Living Wage Foundation.
We recognise the importance of the contribution of the Groups people to its results in the year and I would like to thank all of them for their hard work and dedication throughout the period.
Social responsibility issues are discussed in section A5 PAGE 10 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Governance The Group is committed to good corporate governance and complied with the new version of the UK Corporate Governance Code introduced in the year.
The updated governance structure introduced in 2014 continues to be embedded.
In addition to our normal duties the Board and I were much involved in assessing the Five Arrows Leasing Group acquisition and addressing the increasing regulatory requirements facing the Group.
Edward Tilly, who had served as a non-executive director since 2008, retired from the Board in the year.
I would like to thank Ted for his contribution over the years: his counsel will be much missed.
Fiona Clutterbuck succeeded Ted as Senior Independent Director on his retirement and I wish her well in her new role.
Corporate governance is discussed in section B3 Auditors As a result of new audit tendering rules, the Board determined that the Group should appoint new external auditors.
After a competitive tender process the Audit Committee recommended KPMG LLP be appointed.
I look forward to welcoming them as auditors and wish to express the appreciation of the Board to the outgoing auditors, Deloitte LLP, for a successful relationship over many years.
The Audit Committee report is set out in section B4 Risk The Group has further enhanced its risk management systems in the year, following the inauguration of the Risk and Compliance Committee last year.
This has included the appointment of the first Group Chief Risk Officer and the bringing together of the Groups risk functions into one division.
Risk disclosures in this document have also been significantly enhanced to help users understand the risk environment in which the Group operates.
The Risk Management report is set out in section B6 Shareholder returns The positive results have enabled the Board to declare a final dividend for the year of 7.4p per share, bringing the dividend for the year to 11.0p up 22.2%, subject to shareholder approval.
49.7 million has also been spent on buying back shares and the buy-back programme will be increased in the new year by up to 50.0 million.
These actions both enhance return for shareholders.
Conclusion The Board and I have enjoyed a challenging and exciting year as the Group has grown and developed in a changing economic and regulatory environment, while enhancing returns to shareholders.
These developments leave the Group well placed for further strong performance looking forward and we face the future with optimism.
Robert G Dench Chairman 24 November 2015 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT
