CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sebastian Lyon, our Investment Adviser, has noted in his Report on the opposite page that over the year to 30 April 2015 our net asset value per share NAV rose by 4.8% compared to the increase of 3.9% in our comparator, the FTSE All-Share Index All-Share, and in price terms we rose by 5.7% as we turned the 0.6% discount to NAV at which we sold on 30 April 2014 into an 0.2% premium.
This was in keeping with the Boards undertaking, enshrined in our Articles of Association, that our shares will always trade at close to NAV through a combination of share buybacks at a small discount to NAV and the issue of new or Treasury shares at a small premium to NAV where demand exceeds supply.
During the year the Company created no new shares but bought back 10,100 shares to be held in Treasury for a total consideration of 3.4 million and reissued 35,609 shares from Treasury for net proceeds of 12.3 million.
Our success over the past year in modestly outperforming the All-Share made a welcome change from the previous year, in which we not only underperformed the All-Share but also, uncharacteristically and to our chagrin, lost money in absolute terms.
Over the three years and five years to 30 April 2015 our comparator performed strongly, up by 26.0% and 31.3% respectively.
To those used to Personal Assets typical underperformance of rising markets and outperformance of falling ones it will come as no surprise that while we made money over both three years and five years our share price gains of 2.9% and 21.1% respectively lagged our comparator, our three-year figures in particular which suffered from the disappointing year to 30 April 2014 just referred to helping us to understand how the Labour Party in Scotland must have felt on the morning after the General Election.
On a brighter note, our annual capital return over the 10 years to 30 April 2015, at 4.5% in price terms and 4.7% in NAV terms, has been little different from that of our comparator, at 4.6%, but was achieved in exchange for much lower volatility the same destination reached by calmer and less stressful means.
This accords with our objective, which I mentioned last year, of seeking to avoid capital loss and of taking on a level of risk which will usually be less than that of our comparator.
The bottom chart on page 10 shows how over the 15 years since 30 April 2000 Personal Assets succeeded in outperforming the All-Share while being not only much less volatile than its comparator but also the least volatile of all the trusts in its peer group, the AIC Global Sector.
Last year we made a number of changes to the Annual Report & Accounts and this year we have made further radical alterations with the aim of clearing away clutter and making our published statements more accessible, o. intelligible and useful.
Robin discusses the changes in detail in the accompanying Quarterly N 76, but I cant resist mentioning here that we have succeeded in reducing the size of the Annual Report & Accounts from 50 pages to 33 without, we believe, sacrificing anything of interest or value.
At a General Meeting on 15 April 2015 shareholders voted to amend the Companys Articles of Association to permit the Company to distribute realised capital profits as dividend.
The Board intends to use this new power to maintain the dividend at the present annual rate of 5.60 per share for the foreseeable future, thereby keeping faith with income-conscious shareholders without disadvantaging shareholders in general by restricting our investment flexibility or lowering portfolio quality and hence putting at risk capital protection and capital growth.
The Companys Zero Charge Investment Plan, established in 1991 as a service to shareholders, has been partly instrumental in the Companys growth over the years and by 30 April 2015 accounted for 24.6% of the Companys issued share capital with a total value of 150 million.
We believe that ISAs will be of increasing importance to individuals financial planning in future years and so we have lowered the minimum subscription for Personal Assets ISAs to 5,000 annually, or 500 per month the same as for the Single Investment Option and Monthly Investment Option within our Investment Plan.
A spouses ISA fund is now transferable on death to the remaining spouse and in the 2015 Budget the ISA maximum was increased to 15,240, which means that a married couple can now save 30,480 a year into a fund which will be wholly free of tax on income and capital gains.
