Governance 87 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Governance Introduction from the Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance determines the allocation of authority and responsibilities and aligns corporate culture, corporate activities and behaviour with all applicable laws and regulations.
I am pleased to report that we have complied in full with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code which was published in September 2014 the Code.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
uk Board evaluation A number of action points arose from our internal board evaluation in 2014 which were reported on in last years annual report.
Progress against these action points is set out in more detail on page 95 of this report.
Manjit Wolstenholme An internal board evaluation was undertaken Chairman in December 2015 and I am pleased to report that the scores were high with the lowest score being in relation to appropriate prioritisation and governance of succession planning which the board has addressed in I am extremely pleased to report that we Dear shareholder 2015 and will continue to prioritise in 2016. won Best Board Disclosure for a second It was pleasing to note that the scoring I am pleased to present our governance year running at the Institute of Chartered recognised that the board was continuing report to you for 2015.
Secretaries and Administrators Excellence to evolve, relationships were developing in Governance Awards 2015 for our 2014 During the year, the board had effective and that different views around the board Annual Report.
We also won the best oversight of the operation of the divisions, table were being taken into account.
Corporate Governance reporting in the FTSE made sure there were rigorous and robust There was, however, some concern raised 250 at the PwC Building Public Trust Awards risk management processes and strong over the quality of the information and in 2015.
It is our aim and intention to uphold internal controls in place and closely presentations included in the meeting packs this high standard of reporting in this years monitored compliance and other related and the adequacy of the briefings from the corporate governance report.
In particular, we committees, which we intend to address strengthened the role of chief risk officer in Following the publication of the FCA during 2016.
Further information about each of the divisions and ensured that there Occasional Paper: 8 Consumer Vulnerability thisis set out on page 96. were integrated discussions between the in Financial Services, in February 2015, board and the audit and risk committees.
the board, through the risk advisory Board composition As part of this process, Stuart Sinclair committee, carried out a review of the was appointed to the board of the main Following a formal performance evaluation vulnerable consumer processes, policies subsidiaries within the Consumer Credit that I carried out in October 2015, and procedures in each of the divisions.
Division and Malcolm Le May was appointed the nomination committee agreed to Further details are set out on pages 59 to the board of the companies comprising recommend to the board the extension and 99.
As Vanquis Bank has three of Stuart Sinclairs term of appointment We have also taken measures to improve independent non-executive directors, it was by threeyears.
The committees risk governance including, in particular, not felt necessary to appoint a non-executive recommendation was based on Stuarts strengthening the role of the group internal director from the group board to the board recent and relevant financial experience, audit function following an external review of Vanquis Bank.
hisknowledge of the group and the fact undertaken with the assistance of PwC.
thathis length of tenure creates a balance As a consequence, we extended the with the two non-executive directors Key highlights for 2016 group internal audit function to cover all whojoined theboard in January 2014. the divisions including Vanquis Bank and I have continued to develop my relationship I am pleased to report that the board widened the skill base and experience of the with the Chief Executive and seek to act as accepted the nomination committees function to support a group internal audit a sounding board, adviser and confidante.
recommendation at its meeting in work plan.
This provides clearer visibility We held monthly meetings throughout 2015 October 2015. of the Vanquis Bank audit activity to the and I intend to continue with this practice audit committee and aligns the structure in 2016.
Manjit Wolstenholme ofthe group internal audit function with the Chairman As you are aware from our previous guidance issued by the Chartered Institute 23 February 2016 reports, we take corporate governance ofInternal Auditors.
and the reporting of it very seriously and
