Chairmans statement Impressive results, driven by high-quality products and services is a long one because the customer has I am pleased to introduce always been at its centre.
The Company has again We continue to make progress in achieving the 2017 objectives for the Group.
These produced an impressive set of are not easy.
We results, which are all the more are, however, pleased with the headway striking given recent economic made so far.
As ever, our The Board has decided to increase the performance is rooted in the full-year ordinary dividend by 5 per cent quality of the products and to 38.78 pence per share, reflecting the services which our first-rate continued strong financial performance staff and agents provide to our of the Group in 2015.
In line with this, the directors have approved a second interim customers.
It is this which ordinary dividend of 26.47 pence per share ultimately drives the returns 2014: final dividend of 25.74 pence which we provide to our shareholders brings the total ordinary dividend for the and underpins the role we play year to 38.78 pence 2014: 36.93 pence.
In addition, the Board has decided to award a special dividend of 10 pence per share, As ever, our performance is Global headwinds to macroeconomic reflecting the additional contribution to rooted in the quality of the growth are nothing new for Prudential.
earnings from the specific management products and services which We have charted choppy waters many actions taken to position the balance our first-rate staff and agents times throughout our 167-year history.
sheet more efficiently under the new provide to our customers.
No doubt we will do so again in the decades Solvency II regime.
We remain well positioned across Paul Manduca our markets and product ranges.
The last year has been a time of change in Chairman the management at Prudential.
Succession While there are uncertainties in the global planning is one of the most important duties economy and around Britains place in for any Chairman and Board.
I have stated Europe an area of increased clarity is before the importance I place on continuing around regulation, specifically with regard to develop and strengthen the Prudential to Solvency II.
This has been a project in Board and I am delighted to be able to which the entire European insurance sector report that we have continued that process.
has invested considerable resource and focus across more than a decade.
We are In Mike Wells we have an outstanding pleased to have reached an outcome that Group Chief Executive who has already underlines the strength and resilience of made strong progress.
I was also pleased our company.
We will continue to engage to welcome Penny James and John Foley to with policy makers as Solvency II is the Executive team on the Board as Group reviewed in the years ahead.
Our capital Chief Risk Officer and Chief Executive of position enables us to make our wider Prudential UK & Europe, respectively.
In addition, Tony Wilkey has become Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, At the heart of that contribution is the succeeding Barry Stowe, who now leads financial peace of mind that we help to Jackson.
That these have all been internal provide to our customers across our appointments emphasises the pipeline insurance and fund management of talent that has been developed at businesses.
This peace of mind remains the Prudential.
We have long prided ourselves focus of Prudentials purpose as a business on the bench strength at our company.
It and is a vital pre-condition for us to meet will continue to be a focus for the business.
our other aims and obligations.
Our history 02 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
