Chairmans statement Mark Nicholls We have strengthened our senior U4A8472 Chairman management team and made significant internal and external appointments to the executive committee.
We remain well aware of the demands that the delivery of these strategic objectives place on our people, together with the higher costs of implementation.
We will therefore continue to move ahead with care so as not to increase risk unnecessarily nor undermine our profitability.
Overview of 2015 Governance, culture and the board In spite of subdued investment markets, 2015 was The regulatory obligations on the board continue to another strong year for Rathbones.
Our total funds under increase with the senior management regime about to management grew by 7.4% over the year to 29.2 billion be implemented.
The board supports the need for the 2014: 27.2 billion.
In August we took the opportunity to individual accountability of directors but believes strongly raise 20 million of long term subordinated loan notes to in the collective responsibility of the board.
In December, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 80.1% shareholding of Vision Sound corporate governance is dependent on having a Independent Financial Planning Limited, an independent robust culture and we welcome the growing emphasis of network of financial advisers.
Over the year, we also our regulators on culture.
The board believes Rathbones welcomed a number of experienced investment managers has a good and ethical culture that benefits our clients and and their clients to our business.
We are committed to ensuring that the right values are embedded throughout the organisation Profit before tax was 58.6 million in the year ended and that these values are upheld, notwithstanding the 31 December 2015, up 28.2% from the previous year as we pressures of growth and change.
We are working hard as saw the full benefit of our 2014 acquisitions 2014: a board to determine how best to monitor and preserve 45.7 million.
This translates into underlying earnings per our culture bearing in mind our growth strategy.
particular responsibility of the chairman under the senior The board is recommending a final dividend of 34p per management regime is to lead the development of the share, which brings the total dividend for the year to 55p firms culture by the board.
This will be a priority of mine.
per share, an increase of 5.8% over last year.
We are working hard as a board to Our strategy determine how best to monitor and Last year we set out our strategic plan and, although all aspects of this are kept under review, our principal task this preserve our culture bearing in mind year has been implementation.
We have strengthened our our growth strategy.
senior management team and made significant internal and external appointments to the executive committee.
During the year, in addition to regulatory matters, the board We have continued to invest in our research capabilities paid particular attention to monitoring our progress on and our investment process.
We have combined the delivery of our strategic objectives, to making changes to the distribution teams in our investment management and unit management structure, to completing the acquisition of the trust businesses.
We have recently integrated our advisory remaining shareholding in Vision, to issuing subordinated business into our investment management business, loan notes and to planning the proposed move of our thereby improving service delivery to clients.
We have also discussed how we operate as a progressing with our plans for a private office.
board in light of the independent assessment carried out at the end of 2014 and considered what new skills the board requires and the timetable for succession.
Sarah Gentleman joined the board as a non-executive director on 21 January 2015.
2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Introduction Chairmans statement Governance, culture and the board Our employees have worked hard in In January 2016, we announced that Richard Loader will a year of considerable change.
It was be stepping down as company secretary on 30 April 2016. particularly pleasing to see the positive The board would like to thank Richard for his much valued contribution to the success of the group since 1990 and we results from our first company-wide wish him well for the future.
Risk Employees The report from the chairman of the group risk committee, The high quality of our employees is a major differentiator Kathryn Matthews, is set out on page 16.
We welcomed the for us and they are the biggest asset of our firm.
Our arrival of Sarah Owen-Jones as chief risk officer in March employees have worked hard in a year of considerable 2015, who, with her team, has made considerable progress change.
It was particularly pleasing to see the positive in developing a new risk management framework this results from our first company-wide employee year.
Sarah has worked closely with the board to ensure satisfaction survey.
we have appropriate information on a timely basis and has also helped streamline the reporting of risk throughout the Shareholders organisation.
We have decided that, following the creation of a conduct risk committee, which Sarah chairs, the conflicts We are fortunate to have a number of positively engaged of interest committee is no longer required.
institutional shareholders with a significant investment in the company.
I thank them for their support and we intend We continue to believe that the most significant risks to our to maintain a regular and constructive dialogue with them.
business are operational risks that arise from the growth in our business and regulatory risks that may arise from Outlook continual changes to rules and standards in our sector.
An emerging operational risk is cyber risk and we are Whilst we remain beset by geopolitical uncertainties, we monitoring this carefully.
The Financial Reporting Council will continue to manage the business positively.
We look published new risk guidance in September 2014, which forward to completing our recently announced London requires us to report more formally this year on the principal office move in early 2017, and continuing to take advantage risks facing the business and to provide clearer information of growth opportunities in the sector.
on the long term viability of the business.
These matters are discussed in more detail on page 20 to 26.
Mark Nicholls Chairman Remuneration 23 February 2016 The report from the chairman of the remuneration committee, David Harrel, is set out on pages 70 to 84.
All executive directors have clear objectives, both corporate and personal.
Management are developing proposals for remuneration schemes throughout the firm to reflect the changes to our business and the regulatory environment with which we must comply.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 3 Introduction
