SECTION 1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2015 has been a particularly dynamic year for TRIG.
Generation has been strong and the Company has shown resilience in the face of twin challenges posed by further weakening in power prices and UK government changes to renewables incentives.
TRIG has meanwhile signicantly increased the scale and diversication of its portfolio.
In December, it became the first renewables investment company to be included in the FTSE 250 Index.
As a market leader in both portfolio scale and diversication, TRIG is well-positioned for 2016 and beyond.
Helen Mahy CBE, Chairman The Renewables Infrastructure Group Limited balance sheet date investment in 15 French solar projects, INTRODUCTION TRIGs portfolio now stands at 51 projects with total On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2015 generating capacity of 680MW.
The operating results, in report and accounts for The Renewables Infrastructure dicult market conditions for renewables, provide further Group Limited TRIG or the Company, and with the conrmation of the quality of TRIGs portfolio and the holding companies and investments, the Group.
soundness of its strategy of increasing and further TRIG manages a diversied renewables infrastructure diversifying its investment portfolio, focused on proven investment portfolio and is a leader by market technologies in the UK and selected jurisdictions in capitalisation, net asset value and generation capacity Northern Europe to support the payment of attractive among the six London-listed investment companies long-term dividends.
Operationally, in 2015 and since IPO focused on operational renewable energy projects.
TRIG is as a whole, the portfolio has performed closely in line with the only one of its peer-group oering the joint capabilities the Companys expectations.
Total Shareholder Return of a specialised investment manager and a specialised based on dividends paid and share price performance for 1 operations manager, in the form of InfraRed Capital 2015 was 4.4%, compared to 1.0% for the FTSE All-Share 2 Partners Limited InfraRed and Renewable Energy Index.
Details of the portfolios operating and financial Systems Limited RES, both leading providers in their performance are set out in the Strategic Report, which has respective areas.
been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2016.
2015 has been a particularly dynamic year for TRIG.
Generation has been strong and the Company has shown Changes following the UK general election to support resilience in the face of twin challenges posed by continued schemes for new renewables projects may, for a period, weakness in power prices and UK Government changes to reduce the volume of new development of UK onshore renewables incentives.
TRIG has meanwhile signicantly wind and solar PV projects.
Over time this may impact the increased the scale and diversication of its portfolio, with potential pipeline for operational projects available for generation capacity increasing by 50% to 658MW and acquisition.
However, there is a significant volume of both portfolio value by 51% to 712.3 million.
In December, it UK onshore wind projects and, albeit to a lesser extent, UK became the first renewables investment company to be solar PV projects still owned by developers and or utilities included in the FTSE 250 Index.
As a result of the postwhich may seek to recycle their investments.
As a result, 1 Source: Total Shareholder Return TSR for TRIG from Thomson Reuters.
2 Source: TSR for FTSE All-Share obtained from the FTSE index data series.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued 3 TRIG expects to continue to see attractive opportunities for and reduced earnings per share by 3.9p.
Cash received acquisition in the UK as well as in France and in other from the portfolio by way of distributions, which include targeted countries in Northern Europe in these dividends, interest and loan repayments, was 42.4 million technologies.
After costs, net cash inows from the investment portfolio of 34.0 million 2014: 30.6 million, The Board also notes that oshore wind, a large-scale as measured under the Expanded Basis, covered the total strategic energy resource both in the UK and in other cash dividends paid during the year by approximately countries in Northern Europe, provides additional 1.2 times, with the lower level of dividend cover reecting opportunities for investment.
There is currently the impact, in particular, of signicantly lower wholesale approximately 11GW of installed capacity in Europe across power prices.
7.2 million of surplus cash generated by the 80 projects, the majority of which are in the UK and portfolio during the year was reinvested in new portfolio Germany, which are world leaders in this sector.
Alongside surplus cash generated, new equity notable that the development of oshore wind in the UK capital raised net of costs of 310.8 million enabled continues to enjoy Government support and the volume acquisitions in the year of 254.7 million, repayment of of installed capacity, currently 5GW, is expected to double revolving acquisition debt of 60.1 million and an increase by 2020.
The sector has now built up meaningful in cash balances of 2.3 million to 15.2 million.
operational and financial track records and operating projects are becoming available for investment.
TRIG is The net asset value NAV per share was 99.0p at currently limited to investing no more than 10% of its 31 December 2015 which is a reduction of 3.4p from the portfolio by value outside the technologies of onshore 102.4p NAV as at 31 December 2014 the reduction wind and solar PV, as set at IPO in 2013.
However, the mainly reecting the impact of the UK Summer Budget, in Board believes that, with the growth in the size of the TRIG particular the removal of LECs-related revenue explained portfolio, oshore wind projects with operating history are further below under Risks and Uncertainties.
During the now appropriate for investment, providing further year, the Company raised 315.7 million before expenses, diversication and scale as well as attractive cash ows and successfully completing the Share Issuance Programme of returns.
Accordingly, the Board proposes to put to 250 million new shares launched in December 2014, with shareholders a proposal at the Annual General Meeting in issues in March, April, July and November 2015.
This last May 2016 to amend the investment policy of the Company equity issuance also utilised most of the Companys annual such that up to 20% of its portfolio by value may be tap issuance authority.
Ordinary shares in issue, including invested in sectors other than onshore wind and solar PV these oerings as well as shares issued by way of scrip to enable TRIG better to accommodate investment in dividend and as part payment of fees to the Managers, oshore wind.
Potential investment areas may also include increased to approximately 732.8 million from other generating technologies or supporting infrastructure, 415.5 million at 31 December 2014. such as back-up power generation, storage or demand-side Total management fees accruing to InfraRed Capital response, where the Investment Manager is also seeing Partners Limited the Investment Manager and Renewable increased opportunity.
Further information on this Energy Systems Limited the Operations Manager proposed amendment to the Investment Policy is set out amounted to 6.1 million in the period, comprising their in the Strategic Report in Section 2.5. management and advisory fees based on 1.0% per annum in aggregate of the applicable Adjusted Portfolio Value, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND PERFORMANCE with 20% of the fees being paid through the issue of Financial results Ordinary Shares.
The Company has prepared financial statements for the For 2015, using the methodology of the Association of year to 31 December 2015 in accordance with IFRS, Investment Companies AIC, the Companys Ongoing including the amendments to IFRS 10.
Charges Percentage was 1.20% 2014: 1.25%, reecting profit before tax for the year was 17.0 million 2014: 23.3 the benets of the expanded asset base.
million and earnings per share were 3.0p 2014: 6.2p.
As More details of the financial performance are set out in the reported in our interim results, the measures announced Strategic Report in Section 2.6, as well as in the financial in the July UK Summer Budget predominately the removal statements that follow.
of the benefit to renewables generators of selling Levy Exemption Certicates from 1 August 2015 reduced our portfolio valuation and profit for the year by 20.2 million 3 Being the 20.2 million adverse impact on portfolio valuation divided by the number of shares in issue at the time of the UK Summer Budget announcement 524.7 million shares.
4 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Portfolio Update and Acquisitions set by the Investment Manager using its experience and The Board is pleased to report that, as in prior periods since judgement having taken into account available comparable IPO, the operational performance of the portfolio market transactions and financial market data in order to continues to meet the Companys expectations.
While arrive at a fair market value.
dierent months and seasons during the year continue to The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the exhibit variable energy outcomes based on prevailing methodology used and the assumptions adopted, and have weather conditions, TRIGs portfolio diversication, both approved the valuation of 712.3 million for the portfolio by geography and by generating technology, results in a of 36 investments as at 31 December 2015.
This valuation more predictable overall outcome being achieved for the compares with 472.9 million for the portfolio of 29 year as a whole.
Total electricity production pro rata to investments as at 31 December 2014.
The year-end TRIGs equity interests in each project in 2015 increased valuation incorporates several changes arising during the by 65% to 1,344GWh 2014: 814GWh, reecting mainly year, notably the removal of the exemption for renewable the increase in the scale of TRIGs generating portfolio, as energy generators from the UK Climate Change Levy well as strong underlying operating performance.
Total announced in July 2015 and market forecasts for lowerportfolio production was 2.3% above P50 forecasts for the than-expected power prices, predominately as a result of year, with the British Isles onshore wind projects reduced forecasts for natural gas prices, which have a contributing well-above forecast levels of production partly major eect on wholesale electricity pricing in the UK and oset by below-forecast performance for solar PV and Ireland.
As in 2014, this has been partially oset by the French wind, reecting lower prevailing radiation levels reduction in applicable valuation discount rates for and wind speeds in those sectors across the year as a renewable energy projects, as reported at the half year.
Further details of the valuation, including sensitivities, are During the year, TRIG successfully completed new set out in Section 2.7 of the Strategic Report which follows.
investments in seven operating projects for an aggregate consideration of approximately 255 million, increasing the DISTRIBUTIONS portfolio to 36 projects and net generating capacity to The Board has declared a second interim dividend for the 658MW, an increase of 50% on the capacity as at the end six month period ended 31 December 2015 of 3.11p per of 2014.
Most notably, TRIG invested 246 million via a 49% share in line with the Boards target to provide an annual equity interest and a mezzanine debt investment in six ination-linked step-up.
When combined with the first half large Scottish operational wind farms in a new partnership interim dividend of 3.08p per share, this equates to a alongside Fred.
Olsen Renewables, a major developer of distribution of 6.19p in respect of the full year 2014: wind farms in the UK and Scandinavia.
The second half interim dividend is payable to those a solar park in Cornwall from RES, the Companys ordinary shareholders on the register on the record date Operations Manager, for approximately 9 million.
of 19 February 2016 and will be paid on 31 March 2016.
A scrip dividend alternative is also being oered and details Additionally, just after the year-end, TRIG acquired will be sent shortly to shareholders in a separate circular.
interests in 15 French solar parks in an investment partnership with Akuo Energy, a major independent French In 2016, the Company intends to pay quarterly interim renewable energy developer.
This investment of dividends from semi-annual dividends hitherto.
The 57 million 44 million adds further feed-in tari Company is targeting an aggregate dividend for the revenues to TRIGs portfolio i. e. long-term xed-type financial year to 31 December 2016 of 6.25p per share, revenues with ination-linkage and brings TRIGs current reecting a 1.0% inationary increase above the 6.19p per portfolio to 51 projects and 680MW of net generating share with respect to the year to 31 December 2015.
This capacity across the UK, France and Ireland.
target dividend would be paid in four equal quarterly instalments of 1.5625p per share.
The first quarterly Further details of operational performance, market dividend is expected to be paid in June 2016 with respect conditions and acquisitions and strategy are set out in the to the three months to 31 March 2016 and the other three Strategic Report which follows.
quarterly dividends for 2016 are expected to be paid in September 2016, December 2016 and March 2017.
Valuation The Investment Manager has prepared a fair market RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at The Board believes that TRIG is well-positioned with its 31 December 2015.
The valuation is based on a discounted diverse portfolio strategy and its experienced cash ow analysis of the future expected equity and loan management, provided by InfraRed and RES, to benefit note cash ows accruing to the Group from each from the long-term returns available from renewables investment.
The valuation uses key assumptions which are THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued infrastructure as well as to mitigate and or make There has also been considerable international debate on adjustments for the risks it is most likely to confront in its the role of governments in the promotion of renewable industry.
energy while balancing long-term energy security and costeciency with meeting decarbonisation goals.
This While there are a range of factors monitored by the culminated in the UN COP 21 conference at the end of the Managers, the Board considers that the key elements of year which was positively received, bringing an risk impacting on the future performance of the operating unprecedented number of governments to the table, and assets in which the Company invests are 1 portfolio resulting in a number of practical measures being agreed energy yield variability: 2 wholesale power prices and 3 to keep decarbonisation high on both national and adverse regulatory change.
international agendas as critical work-in-progress, while 1 Portfolio energy yield: Based on the performance to recognising the impracticability of agreeing a one-o, date, the Board believes the variability encountered from inexible regime between countries with a broad range of the energy sources of wind and solar have been specic circumstances.
successfully mitigated both naturally by the tendency for 2015 also saw the governments of major economies, weather conditions to even out over time and via the including the UK, seeking to reform international tax rules Companys diversication policy, both by geography and regarding the OECD G20 Base Erosion and profit Shifting technology.
Recent swings in weather outcomes have not BEPS project.
The Company, along with others in the had a negative impact on TRIGs overall performance.
infrastructure sector, has taken part in a consultation 2 Wholesale electricity prices: Further reductions in process in the UK led by the UK Treasury, and continues to forecast wholesale power prices in the UK have continued engage with the UK tax authorities as the proposals to impact on financial performance, although this has been develop.
partially mitigated by a majority of the Companys projectThere is further discussion on risk factors and risk level revenues being derived from xed power purchase management in the Strategic Report in Section 2.10. agreements, feed-in taris and renewable obligation certicates.
With the current oversupply of fossil fuels, ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND there is a very soft market in these commodities with the GOVERNANCE possibility of further reductions feeding through to power Since its inception in 2013, TRIG has been designed and prices.
Conversely, there is also the opportunity for future managed in order to provide a socially conscious, wellupside over the longer term once production and demand managed, high-yielding investment opportunity.
The Company may also continue to invest in projects that provide xed-type revenues, such as TRIGs current renewables investments power the the solar investment in France announced following the equivalent of 330,000 households equivalent to more than year-end.
1% of the UKs total household power supply and prevent 2 the emission of 520,000 tonnes of CO annually.
Under the 3 Regulatory change: As TRIG currently has a fully aegis of its experienced Managers, who continually operating portfolio of renewable electricity generating evaluate the performance of a range of underlying projects and with an allocation limit of 15% of portfolio contractors, the Group continues to pursue excellence in value to pre-operational projects, TRIG carries few risks details of environmental eciency and social sensitivity associated with the planning and commissioning of across all aspects of the portfolio, through the landscaping projects.
This is an important risk mitigant as governments of our wind farms and solar parks, as well as in the seek to reduce costs as deployment targets approach engagement with our local communities, whether it be in realisation, and manage down the level of incentives improving local footpaths, funding play facilities, senior available for potential new developments.
The main citizen events and cultural groups, or in arranging government-related risk to TRIG is the enactment of educational visits to our sites.
regulations or tax changes that might aect income from existing electricity generating projects.
2015 has seen some As a member of the Association of Investment Companies amendments impacting on the renewables sector, AIC, TRIG reports governance against the AIC Code of including the unexpected removal of the benefit to Corporate Governance endorsed by the Financial Reporting renewables generators of Levy Exemption Certicate Council.
The Company continues to evaluate best practices LEC sales in the 2015 UK Summer Budget.
In addition, in the industry as a leading participant in the fast-growing the UK has seen several reductions to the level of future renewables segment of the infrastructure investment incentives on oer for new project developments in the market.
medium term for the solar PV and onshore wind sectors, In 2015, TRIG had more than 100 meetings with major while continuing to incentivise further development of existing and potential investors and hosted a number of technologies such as oshore wind.
6 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 institutional investor representatives at the RES control portfolio and achieve scale eciencies, while also centre in Glasgow, showcasing the operational capabilities improving stock liquidity.
of TRIGs Operations Manager, as well as at one of its wind In the year ahead, the UK renewables industry is likely to farms.
During the year, TRIG also welcomed several major continue to adapt to the ongoing challenges of reduced international investors to its shareholder register.
The wholesale power prices and the re-setting of the Board prioritises its engagement with shareholders and Governments energy strategy, while elsewhere in Europe aims to continue to spearhead disclosure and transparency and particularly in France, renewables appear to have a in our sector as it evolves in the years ahead.
clearer immediate path for growth.
Against this back-drop, As part of good corporate governance, all of the Directors TRIGs ability to look across markets and technologies is will oer themselves for re-election at the Annual General coming into its own.
With its proven operational portfolio Meeting to be held on 4 May 2016. of 51 projects exhibiting market-leading scale and diversication across technologies and markets, the complementary capabilities of its Managers and the valued OUTLOOK support of its shareholders, TRIG is well-positioned to In conjunction with the Investment Manager, the Board has deliver attractive returns in 2016 and beyond.
reviewed the Companys overall performance including its portfolio cash ow generation and forecasts.
As discussed above, 2015 has seen a reduction in cash generation as a result of the removal of the Levy Exemption Certicate benets in the UK and a fall in wholesale power prices and reduction in the long-term power curve.
In spite of this backdrop, TRIG achieved a cash cover of 1.2x net cash generated from operations over cash dividends paid in 2015 and targets an increase in its full year dividend for Helen Mahy CBE 2016 in line with ination.
In addition, through a careful Chairman investment strategy, TRIG aims to capitalise on further 22 February 2016 opportunities to enhance the diversication of the THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 7
