Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WELL-PLACED TO BENEFIT FROM ATTRACTIVE OPPORTUNITIES 2015 marked the second full year of RELs operations, and the second consecutive year of volatile energy markets which presented further attractive investment opportunities to the Company.
2015 marked the second full year of RELs operation REL, through the Partnership, invested $68 million of the amidst a challenging backdrop for the global energy proceeds in the CIOC tender, bringing its ownership of industry.
Indeed, the energy industry is facing pressures the company to 35 per cent.
ranging from a lack of available capital to declining The Board and I are pleased with the success of the revenues, as oil prices have collapsed in response to equity raise and in particular with our associated investment excess supply.
We believe that RELs investment strategy in CIOC, which we believe has excellent potential and remains valid in these conditions.
Market volatility has already resulted in NAV accretion.
However, the increases opportunity as well as risk.
circumstances underlying this equity issue were highly During the year, $857 million was committed to eight unusual.
We remain firmly of the view that REL should companies, including six new portfolio companies.
Of the not raise additional equity at a discount to NAV except new portfolio companies, five involve management teams under truly exceptional circumstances, and we have no which have partnered with Riverstone successfully in the intention to do so in the foreseeable future.
Several of these companies have already made progress The investments made prior to the start of 2015 have with deploying capital, such as Carrier II, which has proved resilient, but clearly not immune to the pressures entered into a joint venture in the Permian Basin of West facing the industry as energy prices and publicly-traded Texas and Three Rivers III which drilled its first horizontal peer valuations have weakened.
This has resulted in the fair well, also in the Permian.
In addition, we invested in RCO, market values of Liberty II, Eagle II, RCO and Fieldwood which was formed by Riverstones credit team to capitalise falling below our cost basis.
In general, we believe that on the continued dislocation in the capital markets for RELs strategy of gradually deploying capital, combined energy companies.
RCO has already made a total of 21 with the diversity of its portfolio across basins and investments, four of which have already been fully exited.
hydrocarbons should prove to be relatively resilient.
Toward the end of the year, REL had an unusual Of course, the low oil price environment has provided opportunity to increase its stake in CIOC on what we opportunities to acquire additional assets and enter into believe to be highly advantageous terms.
CIOC is a farm-in transactions at attractive valuations, which several high-growth E&P company with a large acreage position of our portfolio companies did successfully during 2015, in the liquids-rich Montney and Duvernay shale plays including Rock Oil, Carrier II, Liberty II and Origo.
Since RELs original investment in During the year, REL announced changes to its Board.
CIOC in 2014, the company has performed very well Lord Browne and Dr Tidu Maini stepped down from the and REL has opportunistically increased its ownership Board at the AGM.
Both made valuable contributions to through the purchase of privately held shares and REL in assisting with the IPO and our first eighteen months warrants.
During the fourth quarter, the Company agreed as a public company.
On behalf of the Board, I would like further secondary purchases from minority shareholders at to thank them again for their contribution.
While their a very substantial discount to our most recent valuation.
experience will be missed, Claire Whittet has joined the Board However, under Canadian securities law, this necessitated and we are very pleased to have someone of her experience a tender for all the outstanding equity.
and calibre as part of our team.
Claire, who currently serves After careful consideration of the various options as Managing Director and Co-Head at Rothschild Bank available to REL, the Board concluded that the uniquely International Limited, brings extensive experience of the attractive nature of the opportunity warranted the financial services and investment trust industry.
issuance of additional equity, and a Placing and Open With energy prices at their lowest level in a decade Offer was the most appropriate method to carry it out.
and the capital markets closed to many energy producers, On 9 December 2015, REL confirmed it had successfully the industry is facing widespread distress.
As in previous completed the Placing and Open Offer to raise its target cycles, companies with strong capital discipline, conservative amount of 67.6 million at a 4 per cent.
discount to the balance sheet management and access to low-cost resources Share price immediately prior to the announcement.
are best positioned to withstand challenging times, and in many cases profit from them.
We believe RELs prudent strategy will enable the Company to weather the storm.
Meritage III provides a wide range of midstream services and has entered into a take-or-pay contract with CIOC, which will assist the company in its production growth.
CanEra III, the third partnership between Riverstone and CanEra IIIs management team, focuses on the acquisition, exploitation and exploration of large oil and or gas-in-place deposits in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
In the onshore U. S. our additional commitments have focused on the low cost Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico.
For the fourth time, Riverstone is backing the chief executive of Three Rivers III to focus on oil and gas acquisition and exploitation opportunities.
Carrier IIs primary objective is to provide non-operating capital to experienced operators that are developing both unconventional and conventional reservoirs, as well as to pursue opportunistic acquisitions Performance in the area.
REL also increased its commitment to Rock REL closed 2015 with a NAV per Share of $15.95.
Oil to fund acreage purchases which complement its This equates to a decrease of 36 cents, when compared existing position in Howard County, Texas.
to NAV per Share at 31 December 2014.
However, Finally, REL has further strengthened its presence the strengthening of the U. S. dollar resulted in the in the Gulf of Mexico with its commitment to ILX III, NAV per Share increasing by 36 pence when compared Riverstones third partnership with Ridgewood Energy with the previous year in Pounds Sterling terms.
to focus on midand deep-water exploration.
The change in NAV was primarily influenced by two I would like to make one particular point with respect factors.
Some of RELs investments with existing production to our commitments.
While we have committed more experienced decreases in their fair market valuations due capital than we have raised or have available, we believe to movements in publicly traded comparables and low that this is prudent because the full commitment tends commodity prices.
This was mitigated by our additional not to be invested due to a variety of factors, such as the investment in CIOC following the completion of the portfolio company being sold earlier than anticipated Placing and Open Offer.
or the targeted investment opportunity changing or The rate of capital commitments continued throughout disappearing.
In addition, the board of each underlying the year, with the Company announcing eight new portfolio company, more often than not controlled by commitments totalling $857 million.
As of 31 December Riverstone, has discretion over whether or not that 2015, REL, through the Partnership, had committed capital is ultimately invested.
Moreover, the Board has the 1 $1,581 million, or 120 per cent.
of total capital raised ultimate decision as to whether or not the outstanding to 16 investments.
Of this, $845 million has been invested, capital commitments are actually funded.
Following the 1 equating to 64 per cent.
With no equity raise of 67.6 million in December, the Board debt at the Company level and over $550 million in cash is comfortable with RELs capital position and does at the Partnership level, REL is well placed in this not anticipate the need to raise additional capital in the volatile energy market from a capital perspective.
New capital commitments made during the year In the two years since its IPO, REL has executed were $200 million to ILX III, $172 million to CIOC, its strategy of investing in high quality E&P and $167 million to Three Rivers III, $125 million to RCO, midstream assets.
This has resulted in a portfolio that $67 million to Rock Oil, $60 million to CanEra III, is comparatively resilient in weak markets.
Meanwhile, $33 million to Meritage III, and $33 million to Carrier II.
our 16 portfolio companies are well-placed to benefit These commitments are focused on the North American from some of the attractive opportunities emerging from upstream and midstream sectors with the exception of industry restructuring.
RCO, which has a flexible geographic mandate.
As discussed above, CIOC is a Calgary-based upstream oil and gas company focused on the delineation and development of its Deep Basin position in West Central Alberta, Canada.
During the year, REL raised Sir Robert Wilson 67.6 million via the Placing and Open Offer to Chairman 25 February 2016 increase its stake in CIOC by $68 million, pursuant to a tender offer for outstanding common shares and warrants of CIOC.
This was in response to an exceptional opportunity to invest additional capital into the company at extremely attractive levels.
1 Based on total capital raised of $1,320 million
