| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Chairmans Statement am pleased to report that 2015 has been a Isatisfactory year for your Company with a share price total return of 22.7% and a net asset value per share return of 8.1%.
Lord Rothschild, OM GBE I am pleased to report that 2015 has been a satisfactory markets in 2016 on the grounds that the US economy is year for your Company with a share price total return of in decent shape outside of manufacturing while they 22.7% and a net asset value per share return of 8.1%.
feel that economic conditions may be improving.
To The results in large measure reflect the investment them, the decline in these markets may have more to do management and operating skills of your Companys with sentiment than substance.
Others are less wholly-owned subsidiary, J. Rothschild Capital optimistic but feel that the odds remain against these Management JRCM, under the excellent leadership of potential difficulties materialising in a form which would Francesco Goedhuis, well supported by the management undermine global equity markets.
However our view is team of Ron Tabbouche CIO, Andrew Jones CFO and that 2016 is likely to turn out to be more difficult than the Jonathan Kestenbaum COO.
Our policy will be towards a greater emphasis on seeking absolute returns.
We will remain In my half-yearly statement I sounded a note of caution, highly selective when considering public and private ending up by writing that the climate is one where the investment opportunities.
Reflecting this policy, our wind may well not be behind us: indeed we became quoted equity exposure has been reduced to 43% of net increasingly concerned about global equity markets asset value with private investments at 26%.
To take during the last quarter of 2015, reducing our exposure to advantage of low interest rates, in June 2015, your equities as the economic outlook darkened and many Company borrowed an amount of 151 million through companies reported disappointing earnings.
Meanwhile the issue of fixed rate notes for between ten and twenty central banks policy makers became more pessimistic in years, at a weighted average interest rate of 3.5%.
their economic forecasts for, despite unprecedented monetary stimulus, growth remained anaemic.
Not On investments, as always, the two pillars on which surprisingly, market conditions have deteriorated further.
success depends are intelligent and correct forecasting of So much so that the wind is certainly not behind us: the macroeconomic situation, combined with the analysis indeed we may well be in the eye of a storm.
of specific companies and stock selection: but in todays difficult conditions we will put a greater emphasis on The litany of problems which confronts investors is creating value by searching out opportunities in daunting: the QE tap is in the course of being turned off dislocated credit situations, currency fluctuations and and in any event its impact in stimulating asset prices is merger arbitrage.
In this context we also look forward to coming to an end.
Theres the slowing down to an working closely with Ed Eisler of Eisler Capital, in which unknown extent in China.
The situation in the Middle East we are making an important investment.
Ed had a is likely to be unresolvable at least for some time ahead.
distinguished career at Goldman Sachs where he was Progress of the US and European economies is Global co-Head of the Securities Division and also a disappointing.
The Greek situation remains fraught with member of the firm's Management and Risk the country now having to cope with the challenge of Committees.
His fund, with its focus on global macro unprecedented immigration.
Over the last few years we investment opportunities, has been established to target have witnessed an explosion in debt, much of it returns over the cycle, with a capital preservation focus.
repayable in revalued dollars by emerging market Ed has now joined JRCM's Investment Committee.
In countries at the time of a collapse in commodity prices.
turbulent and volatile conditions, these skills could be of Countries like Brazil, Russia, Nigeria, Ukraine and particular relevance and value.
Kazakhstan are, as a result, deeply troubled.
In the UK we have an unsettled political situation as we attempt to deal Theres an old saying that in difficult times the return of with the possibility of Brexit in the coming months.
The capital takes precedence over the return on capital.
Our risks that confront investors are clearly considerable at a principle will therefore be to exercise caution in all things time when stock market valuations remain relatively high.
in the current year, while remaining agile where opportunities present themselves.
Problems have a habit There are, however, some influential and thoughtful of creating opportunities and I remain confident of our investment managers who remain sanguine about ability to identify and profit from them during 2016.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2015 3 Chairmans Statement Dividend Your Companys Board We are intending to pay a dividend of 31 pence per share After serving six years, Lord Myners is not standing for in 2016, an increase above the current rate of inflation.
re-election to your Companys Board.
Were deeply This will be paid in two equal payments of 15.5 pence in grateful to him for the investment intelligence and April and October.
We intend to maintain or increase this insights he has contributed to the affairs of your level in the years ahead, subject to unforeseen Company.
Rothschild 4 Report and Accounts December 2015 RIT Capital Partners plc
