10 The Boards strategy for this bank is straightforward: Chairmans statement a simpler bank focused on doing fewer things, and doing them well, built around a low risk UK and Irish retail and commercial bank.
I took over as Chairman in September retail and commercial bank: a stronger 2015, so much of the business transacted bank with a long term target of at least by the Board during the year predated 13% CET1 ratio: and a fair bank that my arrival.
meets customers needs, with a target to be seen as the best UK bank for customer For most of the year the Board was service, trust and advocacy by 2020. chaired by my predecessor, Philip Hampton: it is right, therefore, to begin I am therefore pleased to note the by thanking him for his service to the progress that management have made company since 2009. in delivering that strategy across all our businesses including the accelerated Philip would be the first to acknowledge downsizing of the investment bank that the period was not an easy one for announced in February 2015.
This the bank or its shareholders.
The recovery reshaping exercise remains one of the from the financial crisis has taken longer foremost priorities for the Board, and than foreseen and there is still much while the disposal process is ahead of plan work to be done.
However, Philip led the we continue to pay close attention to it.
Board with calm authority through many There are as many risks involved in exiting challenging episodes and earned the businesses as there are in entering them.
respect and gratitude of his colleagues and successive teams of executives.
We As part of the reshaping, RBS Capital all wish him well in his new role as chair of Resolution RCR was established in the GSK Board.
2013 to separate and wind down capital intensive assets.
Rapid progress has Strategy continued during 2015, and the target of The Boards strategy for this bank is removing 85% of these assets from the straightforward: a simpler bank focused balance sheet by the end of 2016 was on doing fewer things, and doing them achieved a year earlier than planned.
The well, built around a low risk UK and Irish RCR Oversight Committee met for its Chairmans statement 11 final meeting in January 2016 to finalise essentially unchanged through the year.
ring fence, which must be in place by the the transfer of remaining assets and the The responsible executives make regular end of 2018. closure of RCR.
presentations to the Board on progress against their objectives, and a strategy Another key element of the Boards Any company must have mixed feelings offsite was held in June 2015, at which role relates to the significant conduct about a reduction of its activities on this progress was reviewed in greater detail.
issues which the bank has experienced, scale but I note that a number of other While the strategic direction for the core and continues to face.
These costs banking groups, especially in Europe, have businesses is clear, the bank continues have materially delayed our return to now reached similar conclusions about the to execute a major transformation profitability.
So a very high priority for need to cut back their investment banking programme, designed to reduce costs and the Board is to resolve legacy issues activities faced with ever-increasing enhance IT capability.
That is an essential and oversee the implementation of capital and leverage requirements and a element of strategic delivery.
strengthened control frameworks to challenging competitive environment.
Conduct, regulation, and litigation I am pleased to report that one exit was Over the past seven years the global Specifically, in May 2015 the Board successfully achieved during the year.
regulatory and supervisory environment authorised the banks settlements with The Board decided in 2013 that Citizens for banks has changed beyond all the Department of Justice and the Federal Financial Group CFG was not an integral recognition, a necessary reaction to Reserve in relation to investigations into its part of the bank in the longer term and the parlous state in which many in foreign exchange business.
We regret the resolved to float it through an IPO, and the industry, notably RBS, had found conduct which led to those settlements.
eventually to sell all the equity.
Appropriate remediation policies have was achieved in stages, with the final since been put in place.
tranche sold at the end of October 2015.
Banks have responded to the changes, The outcome was a good one for the and capital levels and other loss Throughout the year the Board has banks shareholders and we wish the absorbency tools have been transformed.
received regular reports on other Board of CFG success as they embark on The Board has provided detailed oversight litigation, and a number of settlements life as a wholly independent entity.
of the banks capital management have been reached on terms which the capacity, which involved reviewing the Board regarded as acceptable.
Particular There is one other major divestment outputs of stress tests, recovery and attention has been paid to the claims and programme under way on which resolution plans, and defining the banks investigations related to the origination important progress was made during continuing risk appetite.
We are firmly and trading of US mortgage-backed the year.
As a condition of the state committed to being a strongly capitalised securities, dating back to 2007, raised by aid made available to RBS in 2008 the entity, meeting the requirements imposed the Department of Justice, the Federal European Commission required the bank on us by our many regulators.
Housing Finance Agency, the National to divest over 300 branches in the UK as a Credit Union Administration, and several standalone banking entity to be known as I would observe, however, that a period of state Attorneys General.
stability and reflection on the new rules, have put aside substantial provisions for alongside some assessment of their overall mortgage-backed securities litigation The necessary application for a new impact, will be welcome.
That would also claims we have not provided for the banking licence was made in September allow banks more opportunity to look at Department of Justice and state Attorneys 2015, a major step on the route to how we finance the rest of the economy General investigations.
It is not possible at separation.
While our planned separation and hence support growth.
this point to forecast when these claims will not now be achieved until after the and investigations will be resolved or at previously announced Q1 2017, we remain As is the case for other major banks what ultimate cost but further substantial committed to full divestment by the domiciled in the UK, our future provisions may be required.
The Board exercises close operations will be materially affected oversight of this programme, which is by the requirement to ring-fence the The Board has also overseen the response uniquely challenging, especially from an IT retail and commercial banking activities, to the action raised by the 2008 rights perspective.
following the legislation to implement the issue Shareholders Action Groups.
That recommendations of the Independent case is unlikely to come to court before The strategy for the remainder of the Commission on Banking.
The restructuring the end of 2016. bank, including The Royal Bank of will have an important impact on the way Scotland, NatWest, Coutts, Ulster Bank we serve our customers, so the Board has In 2015 a Board oversight committee was in Ireland, RBS International in Jersey devoted considerable time to the oversight established in relation to the Financial and other linked entities, remained of the plans being developed to erect the Conduct Authority review of the treatment 12 Our brand franchises are strong and distinctive and there is much to build on as we refocus RBS on its core markets in the British Isles.
of SME customers referred to the banks I have been impressed by the focus on businesses and encouraging start-ups.
As I write, culture and diversity at RBS.
To deliver In partnership with social enterprise that review is still under way.
on the strategy we need to have a Entrepreneurial Spark we opened four culture that puts customers at the heart new entrepreneur hubs, with a further six The Future of the business and places a premium to be launched throughout the UK in the Shareholders, including of course the on integrity.
This is a long-term journey next two years, including one in our HQ UK government through UK Financial but it is central to making RBS a bank in Edinburgh opened in February.
These Investments, are well aware that it is now that is growing and flourishing for its business accelerators, which are based seven years since RBS posted a profit or customers and shareholders.
Central to in our buildings, provide start-ups with paid a dividend.
It would be good to be culture is diversity, which drives innovation free office space, mentoring and access able to promise both in the near future, and improves decision making, and I to our networks.
7,000 entrepreneurs but while potentially large US settlements am pleased to see the emphasis in the will be supported in this way over five remain outstanding it would be imprudent business on ensuring women take a years, helping to grow the economy and to do so.
significant number of roles throughout create jobs.
In Scotland, we have also the bank and at all levels.
been supporting local charities and social What I can say is that the future shape enterprises through use of vacant space in of the bank is now far clearer than it Looking forward into 2016 and our retained branch network.
We are well on the beyond RBS, there are a number of way to exiting the non-core elements of macroeconomic and political risks and I am also impressed with the zeal with the business, and the divestments are uncertainties which are set out in the which the staff of RBS got on their bikes to proceeding well.
We can also see signs of accompanying risk disclosures.
One key support our chosen charity, Sport Relief.
progress in the core business, especially in question for the UK electorate this year Over 700 colleagues got involved, raising the mortgage market, though all retail and will be whether the UK should remain in over 600,000 in just five days, making commercial banks find a very low interest the EU.
We are a UK-focused bank, but the event the largest corporate fundraising rate environment one in which margins we have good businesses operating in event in Sport Reliefs history.
and profits are under pressure.
other EU countries such as Ulster Bank in Ireland and many of our business Conclusion The banks ambition to be number one in customers heavily depend on unfettered Apart from the departure of Philip our chosen markets for customer service, access to the European Single Market.
Hampton, the composition of the Board trust and advocacy is stretching, but it Most economic forecasts therefore point has remained unchanged through focuses the attention of all our staff on the to a slowdown in UK growth, at least in the year, though we welcomed a new right things, and there are promising signs the short to medium term, which would be member early in 2016: Mike Rogers, the that staff morale is responding positively unwelcome.
Therefore, like any prudent CEO of Liverpool Victoria, who brings to the challenge.
Our brand franchises are business we are preparing for various valuable retail financial services experience strong and distinctive and there is much potential scenarios.
However, our primary to the Board.
to build on as we refocus RBS on its core responsibility is to serve and support our markets in the British Isles.
At the same customers, and we will continue to do The particular challenges of RBS impose time, we need to reduce our cost base, this, whichever way the UK electorate heavy burdens on the Board of directors.
and embed a new risk culture which will ultimately decide to vote.
Their time commitment is unusually high, guard against a recurrence of the failings even by the rising standards of European and bad behaviour which have held us Our role in the Community banking.
I am very impressed by the back in the past.
RBS is a core part of the communities dedication and skills which my colleagues it serves and undertakes a number of bring to the role.
They all serve on more The Board is firmly behind the strategy, initiatives to support them and help than one committee, and their workloads and believes that we have the right them succeed.
I look forward to continuing to management in place to deliver it.
MoneySense programme, which provides lead such a motivated and diligent team There are of course varying risks and impartial financial education for young as we continue the recovery process uncertainties, which we set out in the people, celebrated its 21st anniversary.
through 2016. accompanying company risk disclosures, To mark the occasion, MoneySense was so our role is to be supportive, while redeveloped and relaunched on a new Howard Davies also exercising strong oversight of the digital platform with brand new content.
Chairman risk appetite and control frameworks, to protect the long-term interests of In 2015, we also spent a great deal of shareholders.
effort and resource supporting small
