2 Strategic report Chairmans statement RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chairmans statement Martin Scicluna Chairman Welcome to our 2015 Annual Report.
During the year we have continued to make excellent progress on our transformation journey.
Strategic Report Directors and Corporate Governance Report Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Chairmans statement RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 committed to the actions needed to achieve this ambition.
You can find more detail on our strategy and performance improvement ambition from page 12.
In Stephen Hester, our Company has a leader with a wealth of experience in engineering performance improvement across many sectors, and he is progressing well in building a high performance culture at RSA.
During 2015 he has further strengthened his team with the arrival of Stephen Lewis, who started in January as CEO of our UK & Ireland business, and Scott Egan, who joined as our new Group CFO and member of the Board in October.
I would like to thank Stephen and his management team, together with the Board, for their contributions in 2015.
RSA has seen significant change over This is an important and significant We have delivered substantial the past two years and will continue achievement for the Company, and the to see further changes in the coming improvements to our Board and I are extremely thankful to years.
Throughout this our employees financial results, marking those of our employees who worked have reacted with commitment, a turning point on our path tirelessly to deliver it.
Our capital maturity and sheer hard work, and on position is now healthy on all measures to significantly improved behalf of the Board I would like to thank that we monitor.
The Board is responsible business performance.
for leading RSAs governance agenda, This further increases our In terms of performance improvement, and on pages 46 to 54 of this report you I am pleased to report that our 2015 ambition and gives us greater can find details of how the performance results are significantly ahead of last confidence in our ability to of the Board is evaluated and how it year.
Premiums have stabilised with remained effective during the year.
deliver our stated financial Core Group premiums of 5.7bn, flat and operational targets.
Your Board is confident that RSA has Underwriting profits have improved a bright future as a successful and The strategy that we laid out in early significantly to 220m 2014: 41m with high performing company.
Zurichs 2014 is clear and simple.
unsolicited approach to RSA last to achieve three things: a more focused Operating profit of 523m was up 43%, summer was further evidence that our business: improved capital strength: with profit-after-tax up 221% to 244m.
Company has a collection of strong and and sharply improved performance Alongside this we have continued to attractive franchises.
We have now materially focus on serving our customers well you to use this Annual Report to find completed the re-focusing of our and enhancing the experience they out more about the progress we are geographic footprint, of which the most have with RSA.
We are proposing a final making.
Finally, I would like to thank all significant achievement during 2015 dividend for 2015 of 7.0p which would of our shareholders for their continued was the agreed sale of our businesses bring total dividends for the year to support, and I look forward to seeing in Latin America.
many of you at our AGM in May.
of our management team is now However, our ambition does not solely on our core businesses in the end there.
Whilst UK & Ireland, Scandinavia, and Canada.
our 2015 performance represents 2015 was a significant year for the significant progress from 2013 and industry in terms of capital regulation 2014, we target deeper performance as it finalised preparations for Solvency Martin Scicluna improvements over the next few years II Europes new insurance capital Chairman to take our business towards best-inregime which came into force on 24 February 2016 class performance.
I am delighted to report against the backdrop of continued that in December we were successful in challenging global economic and gaining regulatory approval to use our financial market conditions.
Your Board own internal model for calculating our and RSAs management team are capital requirements under Solvency II.
