Chairmans statement Board succession Succession planning has been a long-term priority for the Board, particularly for the role of Chief Executive.
Michael Dobson will be succeeded as Chief Executive by Peter Harrison on 4 April 2016.
In Michael Dobson we have been fortunate to have a truly exceptional Chief Executive lead theGroup for over 14 years.
During this time theGroup has weathered financial crises, turmoil in global markets, increased competition and an increase in regulatory scrutiny of culture and conduct within financial services.
Against this backdrop Michael has developed and maintained a strong, client-focused culture that is core to Schroders.
Under his leadership, the firm has delivered record results and assets Results We are focused under management have more than tripled, 2015 was a year of uncertainty for global generating significant value for shareholders.
markets, which saw the first interest rate rises on delivering On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank inthe US since 2006, fears of a Chinese hard Michael for his enormous contribution to landing and continued pressure on commodity for our clients oursuccess.
Despite this, Schroders delivered record results.
Profit before tax and exceptional items and shareholders Massimo Tosato will retire from the Board increased 8 per cent.
to 609.7 million 2014: and leave the firm at the end of 2016.
Our highly diversified business over the long has also made a significant contribution to the model led to our winning net new business Group over the past 21 years as head of our of13.0 billion 2014: 24.8 billion and assets term.
He leaves at under management ended the year at the end of the year with our thanks and best 313.5billion 2014: 300.0 billion.
Our policy is to increase dividends We have also had change in our non-executive Profit before tax and exceptional items progressively in line with the trend in Directors.
Luc Bertrand retired as Senior profitability.
In accordance with our policy, Independent Director following the 2015 the Board will recommend to shareholders 609.7 m Annual General Meeting and was succeeded at the Annual General Meeting a final 2014: 565.2 million by Philip Howard.
Luc had been a member of dividendof 58.0 pence 2014: 54.0 pence.
the Board since 2006 and we benefited greatly This will bring the total dividend for the year from his experience and expertise.
In July to87.0 pence 2014: 78.0 pence, an increase 2015, we announced the appointment of of 12 per cent.
The final dividend will be paid Rhian Davies as a non-executive Director on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on the register and member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Total dividend per share at 29 March 2016. pence per share Rhian will take over from Ashley Almanza as 2011 39 Chair of this Committee at the conclusion 2012 43 of the 2016 Annual General Meeting when 2013 58 Ashley leaves the Board.
We are sorry to 2014 78 see Ashley leave, but we understand that 2015 87 his commitments at G4S have made it increasingly difficult for him to continue with us.
4 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report: Overview Whilst change is inevitable, Schroders thrives Our people are our most important asset and retaining talent is a key strategic on continuity and stability.
For more details on how we of Peter Harrison is evidence of our long-term train and develop our employees and succession planning and the Boards desire our approach to diversity, see page 22. to promote someone from within who understands Schroders unique culture.
Peter was the Boards unanimous choice and we wish him well as he takes the firm forward.
I will retire from the Board on 4 April 2016 when Michael Dobson will become Chairman.
A Chief Executive becoming Chairman is unusual in corporate governance terms Our newly-formed Data Insights team focuses on developments in and we have consulted with shareholders data analytics to complement the and considered the provisions of the UK traditional research of our investment Corporate Governance Code in making this professionals.
For more on the teams decision.
The Board unanimously believes work, see page 27. this is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, with his appointment ensuring stability and continuity with clients, shareholders, strategic and commercial partners and regulators.
Philip Howard, our Senior Independent Director, led the Boards deliberations over my successor and Philip Howard provides more detail on those Working with almost 800 charities, foundations and endowments, we are deliberations on page 57.
I played no part the largest investment manager of charity in choosing my successor, but I am fully assets in the UK.
For more on our work in supportive of the decision to appoint Michael.
I have greatly enjoyed being part of Schroders and it has been a privilege to have led the Board and to have worked with such a talented management team.
Over the years I have met many employees across the world and I have always been struck by their enthusiasm, talent and, most importantly, the pride they have in working for Schroders and doing the right thing Our Board has continued to evolve through 2015.
For more details on our for clients, the firm and shareholders.
At a time Board members, see page 46. when regulators and commentators are questioning corporate culture and how boards can embed an appropriate culture across a diverse business, I can say with confidence that the right culture is well and truly embedded within this firm.
This is a unique organisation that always strives to do the right thing.
I am sure our clients, employees and shareholders will be reassured that this approach will continue.
Andrew Beeson Chairman Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5 Strategy & Business review Chief Executives statement 8 Strategy 10 Key performance indicators 12 Business model 14 Business review 25 Market developments 32 Key risks and mitigations 36 6 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategy & Business review Schroders has had a We manage 80 billion of assets on behalf of clients from Asia Pacific and we have presence across Asia Pacific associate and joint venture partnerships for over 40 years, operating in China, India and Singapore.
from 10 offices across the We generated net inflows across region.
the region of 8.6 billion in Institutional, Intermediary and Wealth Management.
In focus: Singapore We have investment and distribution capabilities in Singapore, and the office is our technology and operations centre for the region.
This year we celebrated the th 40 anniversary of the establishment of our office in Singapore.
Asia Pacific offices Beijing, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Mumbai, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney, Taipei, Tokyo Investment offices.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7
