Chairmans Statement Performance Appointment of Manager and Restructuring In the twelve months to 31 October 2015, the net asset value Alasdair McKinnon was appointed Manager of the company in per share NAV total return with borrowings at market value February 2015 after serving as Acting Manager since July 2014. was 4.0%.
The share price total return over the same period was 3.7%.
The Managers review provides more detail regarding We have restructured our operations to reflect the fact that the the contributing factors to this performance.
portfolio is managed as a unified global entity and to ensure that our costs remain competitive.
We have also closed our defined The portfolio is not modelled on any index and, to reflect this, benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
the company does not have a formal benchmark.
Performance is instead reviewed in the context of returns from broad baskets Our ongoing charges ratio for the year under review was 0.52% of UK and international equities.
Over the same period, the which is among the lowest in the industry and compares with FTSE All-World Index sterling total return was 4.2% and 0.68% in the previous year.
the FTSE All-Share Index total return was 3.0%.
Board Income and Dividends I shall retire from the board following the annual general meeting Earnings per share were higher by 38.2% at 15.91p 2014: 11.51p, and I am delighted to be succeeded as Chairman by James Will.
due mainly to a higher level of income generation from the I am confident of the future of the company in the hands of James portfolio but also to a greater use of our borrowings throughout and his colleagues.
the year, higher special dividends and successful tax reclaims relating to historic overseas dividends.
Outlook We exist in an investment climate that owes much to the The board recommends a final dividend of 7.50p per share continued availability of cheap credit.
Complicating this is the 2014:7.20p which, if approved, and combined with the interim fact that the credibility of the US Federal Reserve has been staked dividend of 5.00p, will mean that the total regular dividend for on a desire to normalise interest rate policy while other important the year will increase by 4.2%, from 12.00p to 12.50p, ahead of central banks continue to discuss further extraordinary stimulus.
the main measures of UK inflation.
The board also recommends It is unclear how this will eventually end.
the payment of a special dividend of 3.50p which, if approved and combined with the total regular dividend, will mean that Regardless of the above uncertainty, we believe that we have the total dividend for the year will increase by 33.3% to 16.00p.
a portfolio of sound companies which should work to the longterm advantage of our shareholders.
Commentary Global stockmarkets made a very strong start to our financial year, peaking at around the end of the first half, as investors remained sensitive to the intentions of the major central banks.
The highly benign monetary environment was maintained as Douglas McDougall the US Federal Reserve Fed backed away from a suggested Chairman increase in interest rates while the European Central Bank and 14 December 2015 the Bank of Japan engaged in additional stimulus.
Markets fell heavily following the devaluation of the Chinese currency in August, which suggested that future Chinese economic growth was likely to be slower than had been previously assumed.
Markets were further disturbed by a concern that the Fed would ignore the slowdown in global economic activity and fulfil a long-mooted ambition to start increasing interest rates.
However, markets recovered late in our financial year as the Fed again shied away from such a course of action.
Gearing Gearing was modestly increased through the year from 4% to 5%.
The deployment of debt added to the capital return and income account and partially offset the effect of interest payments.
Discount and Share Buybacks The discount at which the share price trades to the NAV was again broadly stable and finished the year at 8.6% 2014: 8.7%.
The company has for a number of years followed a policy that aims to maintain the discount at or below 9%.
During the year, 2.5m 2014: 1.9m shares were repurchased for cancellation at an average discount of 8.9% 2014: 9.7% and at a cost of 15.4m 2014: 11.3m.
4 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015
