Strategic Report Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 21 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement, has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on another strong year for our adopt a patient long term investment approach, as there may well shareholders.
Scottish Mortgages net asset value NAV total be periods of under-performance in both absolute and relative return capital and income for the year to the end of March 2015 terms.
was 27.7% and the share price total return was 29.6%: these This year, the Managers report provides an exposition on the returns were ahead of that of the broader global equities evolution of the broader ideas underpinning the selection of the benchmark, the FTSE All-World Index, which produced a total individual stocks for the portfolio over the last decade and into the return over the period of 19.2%.
next, together with a paper on the Managers approach to Whilst this is more than satisfactory, I urge shareholders not to investment risk analysis: I encourage all present and prospective pay undue attention to short term numbers, no matter how good shareholders to read this.
The Board continues to endorse they may be.
The Company is required to report these on an wholeheartedly the Managers committed long-term approach to annual basis, but the investment approach adopted has a much investing by thorough research of individual companies which longer-term philosophy and as ever I would encourage may have the potential to grow substantially.
shareholders to think of their investment in Scottish Mortgage in Earnings and Dividends this context.
The five and ten year results, which are aligned with Scottish Mortgage is clear in its focus as a growth investment the investment thesis employed by the Managers, are the trust.
Our objective is to maximise total returns to shareholders, appropriate basis on which to judge performance and are the and the aim is to achieve this primarily through capital figures by which to assess the Managers performance.
I am appreciation over the long term.
The Board considers it important happy to say these also remain excellent.
that the Managers are not constrained by having to acquire short The table below shows the ten and five year total returns in term income for dividend payments, but be allowed to percentage terms to 31 March 2015, alongside the Association concentrate on finding the best growth companies in order to of Investment Companies AIC Global Sector average for maximise the potential total returns to shareholders: indeed, this comparison.
is where we feel their talent lies.
A change was made at the AGM last year to the dividend policy to reflect this objective, removing Total Return % Ten years Five years the requirement for growth in dividend payments in real terms.
NAV 280.6 105.0 The Board does recognise, however, that dividends are valued by Share price 387.7 139.0 many shareholders and the intention to grow the dividend FTSE All-World Index 155.1 61.2 remains.
Global Sector Av NAV 157.5 62.0 This years earnings per share were 2.24p, 7.8% lower than in Global Sector Av share price 173.7 71.4 2013 14 2.43p, adjusted for the 5:1 share split in June 2014.
The companies in which Scottish Source: AIC Morningstar ten year NAV performance at par and five Mortgage invests tend to retain their earnings and invest them for year NAV performance at fair.
the future growth of their own businesses rather than paying them The Board takes this opportunity to congratulate the Managers on out as dividends.
Whilst this is entirely consistent with the their continued excellent performance.
These figures support our approach that the Managers seek in their investments and ought belief that active management can provide very attractive returns to be positive for the long term capital return prospects of these for shareholders, both in absolute terms and relative to the returns companies and therefore of our own, the corollary is that we from the broad global equity markets, when undertaken in a expect Scottish Mortgages earnings to continue to fall in the committed and patient long term manner.
In January 2015, the foreseeable future.
Company announced Tom Slaters promotion to Joint Manager of In order to pay an increased dividend over last year, it will the portfolio, in recognition of the contribution he has already therefore be necessary to utilise some of the Companys revenue made to Scottish Mortgage as Deputy Manager.
Bearing all this in mind, a final dividend of 1.55p is It was another landmark year for the Company: we bought back proposed, giving a total of 2.93p for the year, an increase of 6.6m shares near the start of the period and with our shares 1.0%.
If approved, this will entail using 0.7p per share of the trading at a premium we subsequently issued 25.6m shares revenue reserves.
In so doing, this will leave around 4p per share from treasury to meet market demand, resulting in net proceeds available to support future distributions.
This is the first time that Scottish Mortgage has recognise that, while there is no immediate threat to the level of been in a position to issue shares in this way.
the dividend which your Company is paying, as revenue reserves deplete dividends may be constrained by prevailing earnings, Looking ahead, the usual cautionary notes apply: past subject to any future decisions on augmenting the resources from performance is no guarantee of future performance.
I would which dividends are paid with contributions from capital.
emphasise that Scottish Mortgage is best suited to those who Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report in the investment trust sector.
This reflects, in the main, the Gearing competitive management fee charged by our Managers Scottish Mortgage remains committed to the use of strategic currently 0.3% on gross assets.
gearing, in the belief that being geared into prospective long run equity market returns will benefit shareholders in the long term, AIFMD especially with debt at historically cheap levels.
No attempt is As of July 2014, the Company is required to comply with the made to deploy short term tactical gearing shifts to capture the EU-wide Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
gyrations of markets, as we do not believe this to be one of our As a result, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited was appointed as the competitive advantages.
The Board continues to monitor the level AIFM.
BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary has now been engaged to of strategic gearing.
act as depositary, the additional costs of which are included in the Buybacks and Share Issuance ongoing charges ratio.
I am pleased to note that this transition was implemented smoothly in the course of business as usual.
The proposition offered by Scottish Mortgage has been clearly articulated by the Board and Managers and has generated Board and AGM extensive press coverage which, along with marketing initiatives, The Annual General Meeting will be held in Edinburgh at The has led to demand for shares from existing and new investors.
It Balmoral Hotel at 4.30pm on 23 June 2015.
The Joint Managers is particularly gratifying to see that there have been substantial of the portfolio, James Anderson and Tom Slater, will make a inflows from direct investors through the Baillie Gifford Savings presentation to shareholders on the investments and take Schemes as well as through other share dealing platforms.
I do hope you will be able to attend.
As mentioned earlier, the Company issued shares from treasury Senior Independent Director for the first time in its history, and was a net issuer of shares over the 12 month period.
As per the intention expressed in last years I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Michael Gray for Annual Report, as the share price moved to a premium to the his many years of service on the Board of Scottish Mortgage.
He underlying net asset value the Company met market demand by has decided that after more than ten years as a non executive issuing shares in this manner.
Such market actions, whether in director it is not his intention to stand for re-election at the terms of share buybacks or share issuance, are undertaken with a forthcoming AGM.
We will miss his considerable contribution to long term purpose in mind of aiding an efficient market in the the Board but we wish him all the very best in his future Companys shares in normal market conditions, rather than on a endeavours.
He will be succeeded in his role as senior short term opportunistic basis.
I would reiterate what has been independent director by Professor John Kay.
said in previous years, that no discount limit or premium target is Investment Strategy set, but the Board is aware that shareholders will expect the The Statement of the Managers core investment beliefs is again Company to continue to act to provide liquidity and buy back set out in an unchanged form in the Annual Report and Financial shares when supply exceeds demand.
Whilst the provision of liquidity in our shares remains the most The consistency of the investment philosophy underpinning important factor behind such share issuance, the Board also Scottish Mortgage over the last decade has been one of its believes there to be a clear benefit to both new and existing greatest strengths.
The Managers are stock pickers, searching for shareholders from increasing the scale of the Company, such that those extraordinary businesses which have the potential to grow the burden of costs is shared across a wider base.
their earnings much faster than the broader market over a Following the end of this financial year, the Company has seen sustained period.
Rather than speculating on short term market continued investor demand and the shares have again traded at a gyrations, they focus on analysing individual businesses, their premium to the underlying NAV, leading to further share issuance.
opportunities and the calibre of the minds and the motivations of Permission is therefore again being sought to sell treasury shares those controlling them.
This philosophy is based on the premise at a premium to NAV and also to issue new shares.
As per the that a companys worth is driven by what it can earn from its permission sought and granted in the previous year, the premium assets, and in the long run that its share price will move to reflect is specified as that reached when net asset value is calculated on the growth in the underlying earnings.
the basis of the Companys debt at fair value.
The Board believes Both the Managers and the Board believe that the true investment these powers to be essential to aiding a liquid market in the risk for our shareholders is in the permanent loss of capital in our Companys shares and determining the relationship between the investments over the long term, not in short term share price price paid by shareholders and the underlying assets in which movements relative to an index.
In fact short term market swings they are investing.
may even present Scottish Mortgage, as a long term investor, Low Cost with opportunities.
The Board strongly believes low operating costs to be an Outlook important competitive advantage of the Company, given the This is perhaps an appropriate moment to take stock and reflect corrosive impact of high costs on compounded returns to on what has been achieved by your Company in the past decade.
I am therefore very pleased to report that for the The first point to make is that Scottish Mortgage decided to year to 31 March 2015, Scottish Mortgages Ongoing Charges pursue a fundamentally different investment strategy as compared Ratio as defined by the AIC again fell and now stands at 0.48% with those employed by many of its competitors in the global 2014: 0.50%, which remains one of the lowest figures reported Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 03 Strategic Report growth sector: a higher conviction, much more concentrated portfolio emerged with, to use one of the indicators employed in the industry, one of the highest Active Shares in the business this being a measure of how far the portfolio deviates from its benchmark.
Secondly, the performance has been remarkable and, looking back, I notice that the theme of my recent statements has been along the lines of we have had another good year, but dont rely on this continuing.
Not very long ago there was considerable debate as to whether our shares would ever exceed the supposedly magic barrier of 10, which they indeed passed some 18 months ago.
We have since done a 5:1 split, which adjusts the currency of this argument, so it is worth pointing out that our shares on their new basis were at 2.67 as at 31 March 2015, this would have been 13.36 per share in old money.
By way of comparison our share price in pre share split terms was 3.33 on 31 March 2005.
I am acutely aware that there are serious issues for the world to address, whether these be Russian foreign policy, Chinese social shifts, tensions in the South China Sea or terrorism in all its guises across the world, which from time to time may have a dramatic impact on investment markets.
Yet at such points it is important to stand at one step removed and ask: what might the longer term impact be on the individual companies in which Scottish Mortgage invests?
Meanwhile, I hope that the investment proposition from Scottish Mortgage remains clear.
We aim to manage our investors money, with a long term view, in an active and effective manner and to do so at a cost level which is below that of almost all our competitors.
It is to be expected that we will encounter more volatility than some in our short term performance, both absolute and relative, as indeed we have experienced in the recent past.
But in a world which is changing faster every year, our strategy gives rise to enormous opportunities for growth and I therefore remain excited by the prospects for Scottish Mortgage well into the future.
John Scott Chairman 11 May 2015 Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
