CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR Shawbrook is a specialist UK lending and savings bank focused on Property, Business Finance, Consumer Lending and Savings.
We differentiate ourselves by concentrating on markets where our specialist knowledge and personalised approach to underwriting offer us a competitive advantage.
This supports attractive, stable returns and sustainable growth, and also benefits businesses and consumers in parts of the market which continue to be poorly served by traditional high street banks.
Fundamental to our success is a relationship focus which puts the interests of our customers and business partners at the heart of everything we do, built on a culture which stresses the use of our experience and judgement to make decisions that balance risk, return and customer needs.
It was my privilege to join the Board as Chairman last July, and I am delighted to be able to report on a year of tremendous progress and achievement for Shawbrook.
The highlights of the year are set out in the CEO CFO review, case studies and business reviews, but in short we delivered a highly successful IPO and joined the FTSE 250.
We delivered on the guidance in respect of loan originations, net interest margin and cost-income performance, and as a result we grew underlying profit by 63%.
Supported by a successful Tier 2 issue we also further strengthened our capital position, with our key capital ratios at market leading levels amongst our peers in the challenger bank sector.
At the same time we further increased our already high customer net promoter score, largely due to the high levels of colleague skill, engagement and commitment which are at the heart of Shawbrooks success, as well as the continuing investments we have made in technology and service improvement.
08 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 2015 WAS A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT AT SHAWBROOK, AS WE COMPLETED A SUCCESSFUL IPO, JOINED THE FTSE 250 AND DELIVERED ON OUR GUIDANCE TO CUSTOMERS AND SHAREHOLDERS Naturally from a governance perspective, extremely fortunate that our CFO, Tom Wood, show no signs of diminishing, and our business is the focus of the Board during the year took on the formidable task of also acting as built on a set of values and an approach to was to a large extent on the IPO and on interim CEO for a large part of the year.
He did an people and business partners which have delivering against stretching business outstanding job under the most demanding of allowed us to build a strong and sustainable growth objectives in a sustainable way.
circumstances, for which I am extremely grateful.
All these things give us confidence in our ability to continue to deliver In all our decision making, the safety and We also made a number of new appointments on our ambitious objectives through continued soundness of the Bank, the interest of customers and first and foremost I am absolutely delighted pursuit of our strategy and as we progress and the sustainability of the business are of that Steve Pateman joined us as Chief Executive through 2016, I have every confidence that our paramount importance, and the Board also at the start of 2016.
Immediately prior to joining management team will execute our strategic devoted considerable time and attention us Steve was Head of UK Banking at Santander vision and deliver the plans set out at the IPO.
to evolving the Banks governance and risk and he brings with him a depth and breadth of management processes.
We have sought to experience, and a track record of success, across Finally, I would like to finish by thanking all my ensure not only that they meet the standards all the markets in which Shawbrook operates.
colleagues throughout the business who have of a Public Company and of the regulators, but worked tirelessly throughout the year.
The also critically that they will continue to underpin I am also pleased to report a number of successes set out in this report are ultimately the safe development of the business, and allow further Non-Executive Director appointments.
down to their professionalism, commitment and us to grow in scale and to broaden the range Paul Lawrence, who was formerly Global sheer hard work and they have every right to be of our activities in line with our ambitions.
As Head of Group Internal Audit for HSBC, now proud of what they have achieved.
part of this we undertook a review of Board chairs our Risk Committee, Sally-Ann Hibberd effectiveness during the year, facilitated by the brings significant experience of operations, IAIN CORNISH Chairman Company Secretary.
This confirmed that Board IT and change and David Gagie brings members are satisfied overall with the progress substantial financial services experience and we have made and the direction of travel for was until recently a Senior Advisor to the the future.
It is our intention to undertake Financial Conduct Authority.
After 9 years an externally facilitated review in 2016. service, Graham Alcock has indicated that he will not be standing for re-election at the There were a number of changes to the forthcoming AGM.
Grahams service to the Board during the year.
My predecessor, Bank has also been outstanding, latterly as Sir George Mathewson, left the Board along Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and with Sir Brian Ivory and I am grateful to them I would like to record my thanks to him.
for their contribution since they joined in 2011.
We were also saddened by the departure for Uncertainty, whether it be regulatory, economic personal reasons of Richard Pyman who or political, may be a given, but fundamentally, had been our CEO since April 2014.
Richard Shawbrooks business model is strong and personified the values of Shawbrook and we diverse, the opportunities we have are large and owe him a debt of gratitude for his contribution to the success of the Bank and our IPO.
We were Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 09 REVIEW OF 2015 WITH THE CEO AND INTERIM CEO CFO 2015 THE SPRINGBOARD FOR FUTURE DELIVERY Exceeding our IPO guidance for 2015 has seen Shawbrook post a strong set of 2015 financial results demonstrating the successful execution of our strategy during 2015 and positioning the Group for future profitable growth.
HOW DID THE GROUP PERFORM IN 2015?
Tom Wood TW 2015 was an exciting year during which we made further significant progress in establishing Shawbrook as a leading Specialist Bank within the UK market.
I am delighted that whilst we delivered against our tangible metrics: with underlying Profit before tax PBT exceeding 80m 2014: 49m and Total Assets reaching 4bn for the first time, we also improved our already strong customer and staff advocacy and delivered a number of strategic initiatives.
Steve Pateman SP This has clearly been an excellent and extremely significant year for Shawbrook, and the improvement in performance is more impressive due to having been achieved in a more liquid market.
WHAT WERE YOUR HIGHLIGHTS IN 2015?
TW Delivering a successful IPO in early April was a tremendous milestone in our development as a well-capitalised player in our chosen business finance, property and consumer markets.
To then join FTSE 250 soon after listing in June 2015 was another satisfying milestone.
Since the IPO, investors have understood our strategy and the benefits that our diversification and strong balance sheet bring to set us apart from peers.
Our access to capital markets has enabled us to raise 90m of primary capital during the IPO 82m net of costs, and we further diversified and optimised our capital base with the maiden public issue of Tier 2 capital of 75m in October.
This has resulted in a well-capitalised position to support our future growth ambitions, CFO TOM WOOD, WHO TOOK ON THE which is combined with our prudent funding position and conservative Treasury position ADDITIONAL ROLE OF INTERIM CEO IN M AY 2015 to reinforce our confidence in the future.
REVIEWS THE YEAR WITH STEVE PATEMAN, WHO Laying these strong foundations has enabled us BECAME OUR CEO IN JANUARY 2016. to achieve a successful 2015 and reaffirm confidence in the medium term outlook.
10 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SP HOW ARE SHAWBROOKS AMBITIONS architecture.
However, we are not complacent: The IPO was a great success for Shawbrook.
we have carried out a staff survey in February we need to build on the strong foundation and TW 2016 which included aspects of risk culture, and continue to generate strong risk adjusted returns Our strategy is set out in detail on page 16. we will undertake a full risk culture survey later in as we grow to become an even more recognised the year to measure progress.
Our strategy is underpinned by our Specialist Bank, that is acknowledged for its conservatively positioned balance sheet and expertise and delivery.
WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR THE NEXT focus on building a bank to deliver strong 12 MONTHS?
through the cycle risk-adjusted returns.
This TW TW requires us to consistently deliver for our It was pleasing that our 2015 customer insight I am confident that we will continue to deliver customers whilst maintaining strong risk survey reported an improved net promoter strong results and demonstrate that our disciplines.
Our areas of focus remain the score of 34.
This improvement from an differentiated strategy is a source of competitive Property, Business Finance and Consumer already high score in 2014 underlines the advantage.
We have further strengthened our markets, and we will leverage our capabilities value of our customer-focused approach that team as along with Hugh Fitzpatrick joining in respect of our people, platform, funding has been one of our guiding principles.
as Chief Risk Officer, Evelyn Hamilton joined and liquidity to accelerate growth where to lead Consumer and Simon Featherstone appropriate.
We have achieved this with We also continued to encourage greater joined to lead Business Finance.
I believe that organic originations ahead of expectations employee engagement during the year.
We saw our leadership team will enable us to achieve for the year and the securing of portfolio a pleasing response to our staff survey with a our medium term objectives as we aspire to acquisitions that will benefit us in the future.
response rate c20% higher than the industry profitably grow the Bank in the coming years norm.
We also launched our Sharesave scheme with a strong focus on maintaining good cost I am delighted that the hard work that all our achieving a high take up in excess of 70%.
discipline to generate optimal operational colleagues have contributed to in 2015 has seen Our people are a real competitive advantage leverage.
Our hunger and ambition remains us demonstrate the cohesiveness of our strategy and we invest in attracting and retaining to build the UKs leading specialist Bank.
and lay even stronger foundations for the future.
The Sharesave scheme ensures that they share in our combined success.
SP SP We aim to achieve that objective by We are disciplined and focus on opportunities HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT MANAGING THE diversifying in our three distinct markets of where the market is not crowded, the risks are DIVERSITY OF THE BUSINESS?
Property, Business Finance and Consumer.
manageable, the returns meet our criteria and TW we have an effective distribution mechanism.
Our diverse business model brings about In Business Finance, we will bring together There are many opportunities in our chosen many benefits, allowing the whole Group our Asset Finance and Business Credit markets and our ability to manage idiosyncratic to thrive and deliver strong returns for our Divisions as two central parts of a holistic risk allows us to seize them successfully, shareholders.
However, not all businesses SME working capital solutions provider.
which requires the strong risk and financial within such a diverse balance sheet will grow Our objective is to become established as a disciplines that lie at the heart of our strategy.
and thrive at the same pace and we have seen market-leading specialist provider for SMEs.
some fluctuation within our Business Credit WHAT ROLE DOES RISK MANAGEMENT PLAY Division.
Nonetheless, we have been able to In the Consumer market, which is worth IN THE STRATEGY?
grow that Division whilst maintaining good around 200 billion, we will continue to SP credit quality and strong risk adjusted returns, create relationships with partners who We have a rigorous approach to underwriting, in turn emphasizing our focus on building long have the appropriate customer base.
At the however lending and business in general is not term success rather than originating lower same time, we will explore opportunities entirely risk free.
This means that one of our quality assets to meet short term targets.
to use technology to improve the way in most important roles is not to avoid risk but to which we compete online and in-store.
manage it, and this requires good people with 2015 was a year of significant investment expert insight supported by sound processes.
across the bank, ensuring our platform and In Property, there is speculation that there may processes are sufficiently robust and scalable be regulatory change which could create a TW to accommodate safely and efficiently the next slow down in buy-to-let or change the shape We continued to evolve our risk management phase of the banks growth.
Our continued of the market.
Our differentiation is that we processes during 2015.
Hugh Fitzpatrick joined reduction in the Cost:Income ratio to 48% is operate to a more conservative risk appetite as Chief Risk Officer during Q4 and his arrival than many in the market, for example LTV, evidence of our scalable platform, however has further reinforced the significant progress as we look forward we are confident the interest rate stress and in addition we have the that has arisen from our on-going investment advantage of being less exposed to buy-to-let investments made will deliver further scale in our ability to manage risks within the Bank.
efficiencies, and position us for future growth.
than our peers and we are strongly capitalised.
Our investment in an Enterprise Wide Risk Our focus will be on diversification into areas Management Framework and Risk Appetite SP such as interest only in retirement solutions.
will help us manage our risk appetite, make A key source of our advantage is our human informed decisions, demonstrate to regulators underwriting approach and deep market From a personal perspective, I have always been and other stakeholders that we have a robust attracted to entrepreneurial opportunities and knowledge that allows us to understand and governance and control framework and manage risk that standardised, automated the prospects at Shawbrook are very exciting.
ensure we maintain a strong credit risk culture The fact that the foundations are already in process cannot match.
We think of this across Shawbrook.
We view this as an onas managing idiosyncratic risk as against place speaks volumes for the expertise and going source of competitive advantage.
dedication of the management team.
Tom has managing generic risk pools.
The diversity of our balance sheet across our specialist done a tremendous job in taking the business SP forward over the past year.
The future is rich with and carefully selected markets is critical to Our recent internal risk culture survey indicated this and our growth ambitions can be met promise and we remain confident that we will that we are strong in many areas, including risk deliver our shortand medium-term targets.
whilst maintaining this approach as we avoid skills, knowledge and orientation.
Furthermore, the need to be market share orientated.
we continue to enhance our risk frameworks and Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 11 MUSTO MUSTO IS THE WORLDS LEADING OFFSHORE SAILING BRAND AND SUPPLIER OF PERFORMANCE COUNTRY APPAREL.
BUSINESS FINANCE CASE STUDY SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIP Profile: Shawbrooks Business Credit Division provides asset based lending facilities to support the ambitions of MUSTO.
The leading offshore sailing brand with two Royal Warrants and the sponsor of many top global events, MUSTO depends on Shawbrook to support their growth through invoice discounting, together with inventory, property and cash flow loans.
The ability to build and maintain close working relationships is a core differentiator for Business Credit.
Our team takes the time to understand the requirements of the business in detail, tailoring our services to meet specific needs throughout the year and providing informed and prompt responses to client requests.
As MUSTO continues to position itself for the future, with a strengthened management team, enhanced product offering and improved systems, we are proud to be the Companys finance partner of choice.
Weve worked with Shawbrook for several years and over that time theyve built up an intimate knowledge of our business.
Its clear to us that they care deeply about meeting our needs.
The Shawbrook team displays patience and understanding at every level and our relationship is defined by implicit trust and loyalty.
Peter Smith, CEO MUSTO 12 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS HELPING CLIENTS SEIZE OPPORTUNITIES Speed can often be of the essence for a fast-moving Company like MUSTO.
In 2015, we provided a fast response to a funding request to support the ongoing improvement strategy for the business, which led to additional seasonal funding.
Visit our Business Model on page 20 for more information Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 13
