62 CHAIRMANS REPORT Sarah Bates Chairman I am pleased we are reporting to you on a good set of results for St. Jamess Place plc, its clients, shareholders, Partners, staff and other stakeholders.
2015 was another year of political, social and economic turbulence, but the business has again performed robustly.
St. Jamess Place has grown steadily since its foundation in 1992.
There is clearly a significant demand from our clients for the integrated financial advice and investment approach provided by our Partners.
Our challenge is to continue to deliver the support to our Partners to help them deliver what clients value, in ways which meet or exceed their expectations.
This allows us to continue to grow through high levels of client satisfaction which leads to high levels of retention, increasing advocacy and a sound reputation.
It requires focus on the provision of face-to-face advice and the integrity of the investment management approach, together with the avoidance of unwise diversions.
The world around us changes, of course, and sets us challenges from time to time, and will continue to do so.
Successfully managing the growth in our community, and nurturing such a pool of talent, is a key responsibility for any organisation and this is therefore a key area of interest for the Board.
We look to attract, develop and retain talented people of both genders, and indeed of diverse skills and mind-sets in a wider sense, so as not to unwittingly exclude any particular group from the opportunities we can offer or deprive ourselves of people who could bring benefits to our community.
Last year, I reported that a group led by Ian Gascoigne would look at patterns of female participation in our workforce, and there is more information about his progress on page 103.
We also continue to observe the skills, experience and potential of our people and having expanded the Executive Board at the start of 2015 we are building on these foundations.
We have also been looking at the skills and experience of the Board and planning for longer-term succession.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Of course culture is key and the Board remains convinced that This year we undertook an external Board evaluation.
The detail maintaining the culture of doing the right thing is essential for of the evaluation can be found on page 69, but in summary we the successful future of the business.
Thats not to say that we get were pleased that the Board was considered to be working well, everything right all the time but setting the principle matters.
with effective discussions and constructive relationships.
We will, however, continue to learn and adapt: our training and 2015 has been a busy year for St. Jamess Place, and your Board development programmes are active and being supplemented, has been active in its oversight.
I noted last year that we are not and we can make our paperwork more rigorous.
great strategic risk takers, and we have continued to take a cautious approach, to avoid losing focus or expanding beyond Finally, during the course of the year we noted and participated our expertise.
Our core business has continued to grow strongly in a number of public initiatives seeking to support and develop and in 2014 we established our longer term 2020 vision which Board governance.
As a Wealth Management business, we are examined the size of the opportunity available to us by retaining interested in these initiatives not only as a corporate body but that focus.
Our relatively small steps into Asia and into the DFM also in respect of the 58.0 billion of assets we manage on behalf market make use of our core strengths, and the expertise already of our clients.
The stewardship of these assets is very important developed within our business.
However, they also allow us to and we have been working with both our fund managers and expand our areas of activity, and the offering to our clients, with our corporate advisers to evolve our future approach.
Our without taking undue risk, and over the longer term they may own ongoing dialogue with shareholders is equally important provide significant opportunities.
We have also moved forward and further detail on our activity in this respect can be found on with the development of the new back-office administration page 67.
It goes without saying that I am always pleased to meet system, which has involved a significant amount of work on a with shareholders and please do feel free to contact me during large programme.
The Board is mindful that rapid development the year.
is challenging for any organisation and needs careful management.
Further developments will therefore only be 2015 has been another good year for St. Jamess Place and for considered in light of our low risk appetite for strategic risk.
your Board, and we are pleased to propose a final dividend of 17.24 pence per share, up 20%.
I look forward to supporting the Whilst our Board has always engaged actively in consideration business in continuing to deliver to clients, Partners, employees of risk management, the introduction of Solvency II, the new and shareholders in 2016.
Senior Insurance Managers Regime SIMR, and the new Corporate Governance Code requirements for a robust assessment of risk and a viability statement, have all resulted in particular work this year.
The Board has spent a considerable Sarah Bates amount of time engaging with and overseeing these processes.
Chairman As an insurance group we are required to consider our whole 22 March 2016 Group in an ORSA.
This comprehensive assessment of our ability to deliver to clients over the lifetime of their policies also provides insight into the risks to delivering for shareholders.
We have a conservative approach to managing the balance sheet with client liabilities and assets being matched.
Our risk profile is therefore less like an insurance company and more comparable with providers of advice and asset management, with our main financial risk being the potential loss of future value i. e. loss of the Embedded Value.
Consequently, our key risks are not financial, but operational and reputational: or put another way: delivery to clients and Partners.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
