Chairmans statement Taking action to restore shareholder returns T he Board is confident in the Groups compelling opportunities and that BillWinters and the Management Team have the necessary focus to weather thecurrent headwinds, and reposition theGroup for the future Sir John Peace, Chairman Normalised earnings per share Dividend per share -6.6 cents 13.7 cents 2014: 138.9 cents 2014: 81.85 cents 2015 was a challenging year.
While our 2015 financial inour Retail presence in focus cities, growing thecontribution results werepoor, they are set against a backdrop to the Group from Private Banking and Wealth Management ofcontinuing geo-political and economic headwinds aswell as from Africa, and remaining at the forefront of the andvolatility across many of our markets aswell internationalisation of the renminbi.
astheeffects of deliberate management actions.
Ourshare price performance has also been disappointing, Board changes underperforming the wider equity market which has As part of the multi-year Board refresh that started in 2011 seen broad declines driven largely by the same aimed at streamlining the Board while ensuring an optimum macroeconomic concerns.
mixof tenure, experience, diversity and geographic knowledge 2015 was also, in many ways, a watershed where we embarked we have announced a number of further changes to our on a clear path under a refreshed Management Team, led byBill Board.
With these changes, the size of the Board has now Winters.
Our strategy, announced in November 2015, prioritises beenreduced to 14 members, as we set out in February 2015. returns and the allocation of capital and investment to areas in Ruth Markland and Paul Skinner, two of our longest-standing which we have a long-term competitive advantage.
We will fund independent non-executive directors, stepped down from the much of this investment through efficiencies found elsewhere.
Dr Lars Thunell, independent My clear and singular focus, whichis shared by theBoard and non-executive director and Chair of our Board Risk Committee, the Management Team, isto deliver these comprehensive has also decided to step down from the Board.
Asannounced actions, which we believe will restore theGroupsperformance.
in January of this year, Lars will be replaced as the Chair of theRisk Committee by David Conner, who joined the Board The Board is confident in the Groups compelling opportunities asan independent non-executive director on 1 January 2016. and that Bill Winters and the Management Team have the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Ruth, Paul and necessary focus to weather the current headwinds, and Lars for their significant contributions to the Group, and to reposition the business for the future.
Our markets remain welcome David to the Board.
attractive through the medium and long term, our franchise ishard to replicate and we remain well positioned to support Additionally, after 26 years in the bank, Mike Rees has taken wealth creation in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
We are not thedecision to retire from the Group and will step down from looking for a short-term fix, but building methodically on the the Board and his role as the Deputy Group Chief Executive foundations of a strong balance sheet, growing markets, and a effective 30 April 2016.
Mike has made a major contribution to vibrant and ethical organisational culture.
A lot of actions have Standard Chartered over the years, and more recently provided been started in a short time, which Bill will cover in his review valuable support to the Board and the Management Team in ofthe year.
However, we are under no illusions that a lot more shaping and executing our strategy.
These changes, together with the arrival in April last year With the support of shareholders, the Group now has a capital ofGayHuey Evans and Jasmine Whitbread, mean that the ratio in our targeted range.
From this strong foundation, the Boardwill consist of the Chairman, two executive directors, Management Team has taken significant action to reduce BillWinters and Andy Halford, and 11 non-executive directors.
costs, and plans to deliver $2.3 billion more savings by the Finally, as I indicated at the start of 2015, it remains my intention endof 2018.
These cost savings are creating capacity for to step down from the Board during the course of 2016.
Naguib investments to enhance our conduct and compliance systems Kheraj, the Groups Senior Independent Director, isleading the and processes, and to provide a better experience for our search for the next Chairman.
The strategy to reposition the Group is also underway, Iwill focus on supporting the strategic transformation that we including action to liquidate assets beyond our tightened risk have set in motion, and on ensuring that the challenges in the tolerance while growing businesses that the Board believes markets do not deter us from making the right decisions for the offer a compelling opportunity for sustainable long-term long-term value of the franchise.
The Board and I will provide performance.
We are actively investing to build greater depth 4 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview allpossible support to Bill and the Management Team as It is in uncertain times such as these that, through generations, theycontinue to execute the strategy.
the Group has set itself apart by managing for the long term and not being unduly distracted by near-term cycles.
In this Dividend uncertain environment it is all the more important that we execute on the strategy.
We have a clear path to follow, an In light of recent performance and the newly announced experienced, high-quality Management Team and Here strategic actions, including the 3.3 billion rights issue forgood, our brand promise, firmly embedded in our culture.
completed at the end of last year, the Board confirms its TheBoard is determined that the Group continues to adapt previously announced decision that no final dividend will be tothe changing external environment and to realise fully the paid for the financial year ending 31 December 2015.
The total opportunities that are present in and between our markets.
dividend for 2015 will be 13.7 cents per share as declared with the half-year results and paid to shareholders on 19 October Finally, I would like to thank our clients and shareholders for 2015, and as adjusted for the rights issue.
their continued support and also our staff for their tremendous effort and dedication to Standard Chartered through a The Board recognises the importance of dividends to challenging period.
shareholders, and believes in balancing returns with investment in the franchise to support future growth, while preserving strong capital ratios.
The size of any future ordinary dividends will be a function of future earnings and our capital position relative to regulatory and market expectations.
Subject to these factors, the Board intends to declare a dividend on Ordinary Sir John Peace Shares in respect ofthe 2016 financial year.
Chairman People and pay 23 February 2016 For several consecutive years, reflecting recent poor financial performance, the Group has reduced the amounts paid out inincentives to staff.
At the end of 2015, a large portion of theGroups senior management left the bank as part of our restructuring.
The successful execution of our strategy over the coming years will rely on the dedication and commitment of the remaining staff, who are highly sought after by our competition.
It is therefore important that we pay competitively, while maintaining the discipline of only rewarding good performance and good behaviours.
The Groups remuneration decisions have been made in light of these factors.
Accordingly, the annual incentive payments for 2015 are down by 22 per cent year-on-year, with no payments to the executive directors for 2015.
Since 2011, annual incentives have fallen by 41 per cent.
The successful execution of our strategy will allow us to improve shareholder returns significantly from a strengthened capital base.
To help drive this outcome, the Group has introduced a new long-term incentive plan for our senior management staff, including the Management Team.
We believe it is right that our most senior staff are not rewarded for the performance in 2015, but clearly incentivised to execute our strategy and to create real, sustained shareholder value.
The value of the plan will only pay out if the Group has made substantial progress towards ourreturns and other strategic objectives by 2018.
We believe that this will link closely the remuneration of the Groups senior management to the value generated for shareholders.
Specific proposals in relation to executive directors will be presented to shareholders for their approval at the Annual General Meeting on 4 May.
Summary There remains a broad range of macroeconomic uncertainties and challenges inthe global economy, including the rebalancing of Chinas economy, the impact of lower commodity prices, and ongoing geo-political tensions.
While we cannot control many ofthese developments, you should expect us to continue to reduce our sensitivity to adverse trends, whilewe support our clients and invest in improving the Groups systems, staff resources and processes, in part so that we can be aleading force in the fight against financial crime.
