SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 10 Chairmans statement The Company has continued to perform well.
Since the period end, we have returned a further 2 Strong investment returns and significant realisation 12million of capital to shareholders and are activity in the investment portfolio translated into an seeking permission at our AGM in May for one or increase of 14% in net asset value per share to 588p, more tender offers, with the first of up to 70million together with capital returns to shareholders expected in May.
This will take total capital aggregating 205 million, including tenders of returned to shareholders since December 2011 100 million andshare buybacks of 105 million.
to 540 million, well in excess of our 470 million target.
The pricing of the next tender offer will be We have also made good progress towards the with reference to the share price and the adjusted Companys strategic goals with commitments to 3 31 January 2015 NAV.
Disciplined capital allocation two leading US private equity managers and three remains an essential principle of our investment co-investments added to the portfolio in the year: strategy, and we will continue to return excess 1 post-2012 investments now represent 24% of the capital to shareholders, dependent on market investment portfolio.
The investment portfolio will conditions and our investment pipeline.
Given the continue to evolve as we add carefully selected nature of private equity investment and realisations, managers and investments in the US and Europe.
we anticipate that capital returns will be through Since the change to our investment strategy three share buybacks and tenders, rather than through years ago, we have committed 467 million to afixed dividend.
new private equity investments and returned At different points of the cycle, different areas 458 million of capital to shareholders, balancing of the private equity asset class will be attractive the need for efficient balance sheet management and our strategy is to invest across the asset class with longer-term net asset growth.
In addition dependent on market conditions, targeting superior 238 million has been used to repay or service debt.
risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders in our asset allocation and investments.
The Company has made good progress towards its strategic goals.
Roll forward for cash flows post year end, including the partial realisation of Arysta LifeScience and the full realisation of Hugo Boss 2 As at 18 March 3 Rolled forward for movements in quoted holdings, finance costs, foreign exchange, realisations and fees 4 IMF SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 11 Currently, our largest investment weighting is to While this volatility may impact the exit and mid to large buyout transactions.
In this part of the financing markets, a period of dislocation could 588p market, our exposure to the underlying assets is translate subsequently into an attractive investment NAV per share at 31 Jan 2015 through commitments to funds and co-investments environment.
We expect to make at least one, if not alongside a select number of leading private equity two further fund commitments and to make further managers.
Our exposure to small to mid-sized co-investments this year.
Given the strength of the transactions will be through commitments to Companys balance sheet, we are well positioned funds, such as our recent commitment to FFL in the to take advantage of investment opportunities as US, and directly through specific co-investments.
In smaller investments, where we believe control I am fortunate to have the support of a hardworking 14% offers access to better risk-adjusted returns, we and capable Board, with a diverse set of skills and Increase in our NAV per share are also prepared to be a lead investor, leveraging backgrounds.
During the year, Caroline Goodall off the direct investment experience of our stepped down from the Board after four years and investment team.
I would like to reiterate my thanks for her valuable The global economic recovery remains uneven, contribution during a period of significant progress.
withthe US and UK achieving a growth rate of 2.4% Helen Mahy joined the Board in July bringing 4 and 2.6% respectively in 2014, while the Eurozone with her a broad range of legal and commercial continues to see relative stagnation, leading to experience and we are delighted to have her as substantial additional monetary stimulus from the a colleague.
In aggregate, leverage levels across the developed economies have not reduced since 2008, but have been transferred from the Andrew Sykes banks to the public sector balance sheet.
Against a Chairman background of slow growth, the burden of public 23 March 2015 sector debt remains daunting and in some instances unsustainable.
Given this challenging economic outlook and heightened geopolitical concerns, we expect markets to remain volatile.
At the same time deflationary risks in the Eurozone and elsewhere, together with expected monetary tightening in the US, are likely to weigh on sentiment.
Given the strength of the Companys balancesheet, we are well positioned to takeadvantage of investment opportunities asthey arise.
