CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Companys portfolio is constructed to deliver both capital and income growth.
The portfolio manager remains fully focussed on identifying good quality companies with attractive yields and run by strong management teams.
PERFORMANCE The main themes leading to the recent underperformance of the NAV relative to the benchmark index are set out in The year under review has seen a continuation of volatile the Managers Review together with some of the positive markets together with conditions generally unfavourable and negative contributors to performance at an individual for Temple Bars value oriented investment approach.
The investment level during the year.
total return on net assets of Temple Bar in 2015 was -1.0% which compares with a total return for the FTSE All Share DIVIDEND Index of 1.0%.
It is always disappointing when the Trust This is the first year in which the Company has paid endures periods of underperformance but this is a natural dividends on a quarterly basis, a change implemented on consequence of our chosen investment style which very our understanding of shareholder preference.
There have much favours a longer term standpoint.
Temple Bar already been three interim dividend payments of 7.93p continues to outperform its benchmark over both five per share and the directors are now recommending a final and ten year periods.
dividend of 15.87p per share to be paid on 31 March 2016 to those shareholders on the register as at 11 March 2016.
The Companys portfolio is constructed to deliver both capital The ex-dividend date for this payment is 10 March 2016. and income growth.
The portfolio manager remains fully If approved, this would give a total dividend of 39.66p, focussed on identifying good quality companies with attractive an increase for the year as a whole of 2% and the 32nd yields and run by strong management teams.
Sometimes such consecutive year in which the Company has increased companies are under-appreciated by the market for various its annual dividend payment.
reasons and accordingly offer value to a long term, patient investor.
The benefits of this approach are reflected in GEARING Temple Bars returns over longer time periods.
The Company was only moderately geared at the year end, its long term borrowings largely matched by the relatively high cash and near cash position on the portfolio.
At the year end, gearing calculated net of cash and related liquid assets, including our investment in a UK short dated gilt was 3.8%.
The Manager is only prepared to invest the available funds when he considers that suitable opportunities are available.
This has generally not been the case in the recent past.
SHARE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT For large parts of 201314 the Companys shares were trading at a premium to net asset value and it was therefore able to issue new shares to market participants.
Throughout the majority of 2015 the Companys shares have traded at a modest discount to their net asset value: consequently it has not been possible to issue new shares.
While there were also no share repurchases during the year, the Board is prepared to undertake such action, subject to market conditions, if the discount widens both in absolute terms and relative to the Companys peer group, as part of a proactive approach to discount premium management.
The Board recommends that the existing authorities to issue new ordinary shares and to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation or to hold in Treasury be continued.
Accordingly it is seeking approval from shareholders to renew the share issue and repurchase authorities at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 2 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 32nd consecutive year in which the Company has increased its annual dividend payment.
THE BOARD OUTLOOK As mentioned in the half year report, we were pleased There is no getting away from the fact that the last few to welcome to the Board during the year Lesley Sherratt, years have been an uncomfortable time for committed who is already making a positive contribution to Board adherents of the value investing approach.
We were also sorry to lose the services of relative terms our portfolio has suffered as a consequence, Martin Riley, for health reasons, after 10 years of investment is a long term matter and I am reassured that excellent service on the Board.
many of our shareholders appear to understand this.
They appreciate that the value investment style is inherently In common with best practice, all directors are subject cyclical but that, if one is patient and adheres to this to annual re-election by shareholders.
I refer you to the approach, eventually some great opportunities will arise.
directors biographies on page 18 for further details.
Clearly we hope that this occurs sooner rather than later Every year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous but if needs be we will remain patient before investing evaluation of each director including myself as Chairman.
any of the surplus cash currently held on the portfolio.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM will be held at Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall John Reeve Street, London EC2V 5HA on 30 March 2016 at 11am.
In Chairman addition to the formal business of the meeting the portfolio manager, Alastair Mundy, will, as usual, make a presentation 23 February 2016 reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook.
He will also be available to answer questions alongside the directors.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
