Chairmans Statement Overview and Investment Performance Quantitative easing continues in developed markets, with the European Union the latest to adopt such policies following moves a few years ago by the USA and UK and latterly Japan.
These policies increased the money supply and contributed to avoiding a severe recession in the countries in which they were implemented and, more generally, supported economic growth around the world.
The effect of loose monetary policy has been particularly pronounced on the local stock markets where quantitative easing has taken place, but there has been something of a broader effect on the markets in which TEMIT invests.
Emerging market economies in aggregate have shown a good level of growth over the twelve months under review and, while stock market returns do not directly correlate with economic growth, our benchmark index recorded a strong total return of 13.2% in sterling terms.
As the Investment Manager reports on pages 21 to 44, there are differences in individual markets.
In China, the government continues, apparently successfully, to seek to control overheating while simultaneously ensuring a relatively high rate of growth.
Other countries in our investment universe sought varying approaches to different economic issues, as demonstrated by the fact that some raised interest rates while others reduced them.
A major reduction in the oil price which few predicted will also have a major economic impact if it persists.
Political uncertainty continues in Ukraine and large parts of the Middle East while India and Indonesia, countries with very large populations, elected business-friendly governments.
In 2014 Brazil re-elected the government led by Dilma Rousseff, which was initially seen as an unfavourable outcome for markets, but the economic situation in the country may dictate a more moderate course of action in its second term.
It is very disappointing to report that TEMITs investment performance has significantly lagged its benchmark for last year, and now for the last five years.
Shareholders should be reassured that your Board is well aware of this, and tests the investment model with the Investment Manager at each quarterly board meeting.
Despite this run of poor returns, the Investment Manager remains convinced that the prospects for emerging country economies will eventually translate into market returns which will outweigh the inevitable risks of such investment.
Shareholders will note that some of the more recent purchases are in consumer-facing companies at relatively depressed valuations.
Your Investment Manager focuses on long-term investment in companies which have the potential for high levels of growth and which are assessed as being available at favourable valuations.
This means that the portfolio which TEMIT owns bears little relationship to the benchmark index and indeed the Active Share a measure of how much the portfolio deviates from the index was 95.7% as at 31 March 2015 and is usually at a similar level.
On 26 May, the latest date for which information was available, the NAV per share had fallen by 2.9% to 622.7 pence and the share price by 0.7% to 552.0 pence.
Investment Income and the Dividend Despite the poor capital performance, shareholders will note that the dividends from the portfolio continue to grow, allowing a significant rise in TEMITs own dividend to shareholders.
The Income Statement on page 81 shows total income earned of 59.2 million in the year to 31 March 2015.
This translates into net earnings of 9.3 pence per share, an increase of 1.5% over the prior year.
As a result, your Board is proposing a further increase in the dividend to 8.25 pence per share, which is 13.8% higher than last years dividend, and, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, would be payable on 22 July 2015.
I would caution shareholders that your Investment Manager seeks primarily to achieve capital growth and that the distributions of companies in Emerging Markets can often be volatile.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 7 Chairmans Statement continued Discount and Share Buy Backs During the year your Companys shares traded at discounts between 7.9% and 13.3% of NAV, with a daily average of 10.3%, and the discount ended the year at 13.3%.
Demand for emerging markets investment trust shares in the London market remained subdued and, in consequence, during the financial year under review the Company bought back 4,404,900 shares, at a total cost of 24.7 million and at an average discount of 10.9% resulting in a small benefit of 3.1 million to the NAV of the remaining shares and hence to continuing shareholders.
Your Board continually monitors the share price discount to net asset value and exercises its right to buy back shares when the Board considers that it is in shareholders interests to do so.
In the two weeks preceding this report, the average discount had returned to 11.6%.
Asset Allocation and Gearing The general policy of the Company is to be fully invested.
As at 31 March 2015, 94.9% of TEMITs net assets were invested in equities 31 March 2014: 96.9%.
The high level of cash at the year-end was due to assets having been sold with the resultant cash held pending reinvestment.
Your Board regularly reviews its policy on gearing and we continue to take a cautious stance.
This caution is borne out by the periods of volatility, which are a feature of emerging equity markets and are generally unpredictable in both timing and extent.
Borrowing facilities have not been used in recent years.
Management Fees As previously announced, with effect from 1 July 2014 the fees payable to Franklin Templeton reduced from 1.20% to 1.10% per annum.
Regulation Having successfully dealt with the implementation of the EUs Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive last year, the next challenge facing the investment trust industry will be the completion and then implementation of the second iteration of the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID 2.
At the time of writing, implementation of the directive is under consultation but, if implemented as currently proposed it is apparent that it may be more difficult for private investors to invest in investment trusts, which would clearly be detrimental.
Your Board and Manager fully support the efforts of the AIC and others in seeking to minimise the potential impact on demand for our shares.
The Board The Boards Nomination and Remuneration Committee carries out an annual appraisal of the Board, considering the skills and contribution of each of the Directors.
This year, the appraisal was facilitated by an external advisor, Trust Associates.
Following the appraisal, the Committee recommended the continuing appointment of each individual Director.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the existing Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
8 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Investor Communications The Board and Manager aim to keep shareholders informed and up-to-date with information about the Company as well as seeking feedback and comment from investors.
We hold investor briefings and discussions on a regular basis and distribute the Annual and Half-Yearly Report, as well as notices of any significant Company events, to registered shareholders.
We also release information through the stock exchanges where we are listed.
co. uk displays the latest news, price and performance information, portfolio details, web updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing with topical issues in emerging markets.
Via the website you can also ask to have the latest Company information e-mailed directly to you.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of the facilities and materials available to help keep you informed about your Company.
I am aware that shareholders may, on occasion, wish to contact me or my fellow board members directly and not via our Manager.
While our Manager will, in most cases, be best placed to handle enquiries, I am at your disposal to receive any questions or comments, as are the Senior Independent Director or any of the other Directors, all of whom may be reached via our brokers whose contact details are enclosed at the end of this document.
Outlook TEMITs focus remains on companies which are expected to be best able to ride out short-term political and economic storms and benefit from the effects of strongly growing economies and the growing spending power of increasingly wealthy populations.
Some of this years new investments reflect the latter point with their exposure to the growing number of middle class consumers.
Our Investment Managers approach is contrarian, which means that investments may be made in stocks which are unfashionable and which others are selling.
This is illustrated by further purchases of commodity stocks which, while they have detracted from performance in the short term, are expected to yield results in future years.
I had hoped that by now we would have been seeing improved economic and investment performance in emerging markets, but the challenges and structural changes consequent on the global financial crisis have had a much more significant and longer impact than we had expected.
The demographics and the potential to increase per capita disposable income, as well as investment opportunities, are all there but patience will be required before the gains come through in terms of both relative and absolute investment performance.
Your Board and the Investment Manager remain of the view that emerging markets offer the potential for superior economic growth compared with developed markets and that, by careful stock selection for the long term, TEMIT can profit from this.
AGM I would like to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD at 12 noon on Friday 17 July 2015 where there will be an opportunity to meet the Board and the Investment Manager and to hear the latest news on your Company, its investments and the markets, as well as taking part in the formal annual meeting of the Company.
More details of this meeting can be found on pages 100 to 103 of thisreport.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 9
