STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement dampening effect on the performance of our GBP denominated portfolio.
Eurozone property stocks returned an astonishing 40.7% in local currency which almost halved to 23.1% in GBP terms.
However, if sustained, this currency devaluation further fuels the attractiveness of real assets in Europe for overseas investors.
The Trusts size, liquidity and position as the only Investment Trust with a mandate to invest in pan European property companies continued to prove attractive to investors.
The share price total return was broadly in line with the underlying asset value return reflecting a very similar discount to the net asset value at both ends of the period of c. -3%.
However the stock did trade at modest premiums to net asset value for part of the period with a Caroline Burton range of 2.7% to -4.1%.
Chairman For the second year in a row I both report a substantial Introduction increase in earnings and also highlight that the dividend Property and property equities had another year of strong performance.
As the sector is pro-cyclical and the vast has not grown by the same proportion.
We have experienced like-for-like underlying income growth but majority of property assets are leveraged, it performs best in an environment of improving economic fundamentals due to timing differences of income receipts this has been coupled with a low cost of borrowing.
This year, as we inflated for the period under review.
Full details are contained later in the report.
Notwithstanding these timing anticipated, our portfolios UK equities have benefited from rental growth spreading beyond London and across most differences the Board are pleased to announce the property sectors.
At the same time, our Continental dividend increase which brings the Trusts record of annual European equities, particularly in the second half of the year increases to 21 out of last 22 years.
benefited from an acceleration in the fall in the cost of borrowing, driven by the ECBs programme of quantitative In the Interim I commented that we intended to add easing finally actioned in January 2015.
I commented in my further to our UK physical portfolio and I am pleased to report acquisitions in the year in Plymouth, Bristol and outlook in the Interim Statement that the extent and focus of any asset purchase programme was difficult to predict and Wimbledon.
The sale of Park Place, Vauxhall reported at so it has proved to be.
The central banks appear determined the interim, fits with the strategy of reducing exposure to to persist with this approach and negative nominal rates on Central London residential markets for the time being, so many sovereign bonds place us in unchartered waters.
whilst the sale of the Milton Keynes office to the tenant What is clear is that in this type of interest rate environment was opportunistic at 30% ahead of book value.
well managed, high quality property companies with NAV and Share Price Performance sustainable earnings and dividend yields across Europe are likely to maintain their attractiveness to investors.
Indeed I am pleased to report that the NAV total return for the year was 28.3% whilst the benchmark total return was many investors appear happy to own even those companies with little prospect of genuine underlying rental growth as 23.3%.
The share price total return was even greater at long as the current levels of earnings are sustainable.
29.5% reflecting the narrowing of the discount mentioned in the Introduction.
Our management team, whilst maintaining their strategic focus on markets likely to experience rental growth, and More detail and commentary on performance is set out in hence a strong relative UK bias in the portfolio, have made the Managers Report.
material changes to the European portfolio in the light of such central bank intervention.
Comprehensive detail Revenue Results follows in the Managers Report.
At 8.89p 2014: 8.09p the revenue return is almost 10% ahead of the revenue return for the previous year.
Currency movements in the period have also been dramatic with EUR weakening by over 14% against GBP.
As pointed out in the Interim Report, a number of events Whilst this is good news for Eurozone exports it had a which had already occurred in the first half of the financial TR Property Investment Trust 3 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Share Class Performance: Total Return over 10 years rebased 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Benchmark Total Return TR Property Share Price Total Return TR Property Net Asset Value Total Return year, together with further one-off situations anticipated in Net Debt and Gearing the second half resulted in earnings which are ahead of the Net debt throughout the year has remained broadly in the expectation at the outset of the year.
Without these one-off 14.0% to 15.0% range, ending the year marginally lower items, earnings would have been 7.64p.
These figures include the impact of the CFD exposure, around half of the gearing at the year-end was Dividend achieved through the CFD positions.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 4.75p, 3.3% ahead of the final dividend for the prior year and bringing Currencies the total dividend for the year to 7.70p, an increase of Currency movements have been significant over the 3.4% over the 7.45p paid last year.
We have continued to use FX forward contracts to maintain the currency exposure of our Balance Sheet Revenue Outlook broadly in line with the benchmark.
The resulting exposures Once again we are highlighting that one-off events and are set out in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
changes have inflated the earnings in the current year.
Underlying earnings are growing modestly but our Discount and Share Repurchases development at the Colonnades is underway and this will I have already commented on the discount in my result in a fall in income from our direct property assets for opening remarks.
There were no share repurchases in the remainder of the 2015 16 financial year.
In addition, the the period.
Our Portfolio Manager continues to be tasked depreciation of the Euro would reduce our earnings in Sterling.
with investor communication and our dedicated website www.
com provides current and background We therefore continue to express caution and expect a fall data on the Trust, including a monthly commentary.
in earnings for the 2015 16 financial year.
The Company is offered as part of the F&C savings plans Reflecting the one off nature underlying the current years and our Registrars, Computershare, offer dealing options for increase in earnings, the payout ratio for the dividend is certified holders and a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP around 87%.
Although we anticipate a fall in income for option for those on the main register.
Further details can be the forthcoming financial year, we still expect to grow the found on pages 80 to 83. dividend.
The Company has healthy revenue reserves, and providing the Board can see sustainability in the longer The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive term, we will not hesitate to utilise the reserves to The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD supplement a fall in revenue in the short term.
This necessitated the appointment of an FCA regulated Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM as investment manager.
F&C 4 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement continued Investment Business Limited was appointed as Investment With property returns increasingly being driven by property Manager with effect from 11 July 2014 with portfolio fundamentals, more investors in more markets are management delegated to the former Investment Manager, anticipating rental growth and treating acquisitions as growth Thames River Capital LLP.
There is no change in the way in assets.
As I stated in my introduction property benefits from which the Fund is managed, or of the management team.
low interest rates and whilst we may well see the beginning of a rate tightening cycle in the UK in the next twelve In addition BNP Paribas Securities Services have been months, rates in their historical context will still be low.
appointed to provide Depository services to the Fund another AIFMD requirement alongside the existing The stark differences between the UKs GDP forecasts and Custody arrangements.
This is a new service and carries those of the Eurozone set out as recently as in last Novembers Interim Report look set to fade, potentially an annual fee which is tiered according to the assets under management.
Based on the year end position this equates faster than anticipated, as currency depreciation and to a fee of 0.01% per annum.
determined unorthodox monetary stimuli impact across Continental Europe.
Our concerns focus on asset pricing Investment Management Fee Review as the capital flood into European property and property The base element of the Investment Management Fee is equities has resulted in substantial price appreciation.
subject to an annual review.
As part of that review at the Our Portfolio Manager remains focused on property market end of March the following changes have been made with fundamentals and whilst they have responded appropriately effect from 1st April 2015. to this years central bank intervention, such rapid price appreciation merely strengthens their conviction that it is Historically, a number of third party costs have been only rental growth which will support pricing in the medium included in the Investment Management fee.
The Board term, and gives them concern that some companies may decided that as most of these do not generally form part find it difficult to support current valuations.
of the Investment Management Fee of other investment trusts, these should be charged directly to the Company Whilst rental growth may take some time to appear more by the providers of these services and separately disclosed broadly across markets, investors should take real to ensure that the arrangements are fully transparent.
encouragement from two vitally important characteristics of this current environment the source of capital being The Base Investment Management Fee consists of a core deployed and the lack of speculative development.
The fixed element and a smaller variable element.
The fixed appreciation in asset prices this year has not been driven by element of the base fee has not increased for the last 4 rising levels of debt, but by equity investors seeking income years.
For the year to March 2016 an increase of 130,000 and foreign investors buying Euro denominated assets.
has been agreed on a like for like basis after deducting the Listed property companies across Europe with the third party costs to be billed directly as outlined above, this exception of Sweden are not increasing their debt levels is an increase of 4%.
Since the last fixed fee increase four even as asset values rise.
We expect them to continue to years ago Shareholders Funds have increased by over 50%.
refinance, taking full advantage of competitive pricing, but the majority have hopefully learnt some lessons from 2008.
The final change is that the cap on the Performance Fee has been reduced from 2% to 1.5% of NAV.
Full details Income producing assets have appreciated far more than are set out in the Directors Report on page 30. development opportunities.
Speculative finance is still a rare commodity.
The lack of this type of finance naturally restricts Awards development and reinforces our view that current asset pricing The Board is pleased to report that the Company has whilst sharply up from a year ago is sustainable.
We expect been named Best Alternative Investment Trust in the this risk aversion towards non income producing assets to What Investment Investment Trust Awards 2014. continue and for this development cycle to remain somewhat muted, and the Company will be positioned accordingly.
Outlook In last years Outlook I stated that the building blocks for Further purchases of direct holdings of UK property will be continuing performance from this sector were firmly in place made if the right investments are found.
As usual, in certain areas of our markets.
The improving economic opportunities are being actively sought.
fundamentals in these regions have indeed translated into tenant demand and rental growth, in turn augmenting Caroline Burton further investor appetite.
This has been particularly the case Chairman in the UK together with core cities in Germany and Sweden.
9 June 2015 TR Property Investment Trust 5
