Strategic Report Outlook Chairmans Statement We achieved a good overall financial performance in 2015 against the backdrop of a challenging trading environment and subdued I am pleased to report that 2015 was a year of significant progress client demand.
The businesss revenue is dependent, in the short term, on the John Phizackerley who is known both inside and outside the levelof activity in the markets we serve.
Revenue in the first two business as Phiz our Chief Executive who joined Tullett Prebon months of 2016 was 3% lower than in the same period in 2015 at inSeptember 2014, concluded his strategic review evaluating our constant exchange rates.
Consistent with the trends experienced position and prospects in each of our products and markets around in2015, revenue from Information Sales and Risk Management the world.
The Company now has the clearly articulated goal to Services, and broking revenue in Energy and Equities was higher become the worlds most trusted source of liquidity in hybrid OTC than in the prior year, offset by lower broking revenue in the markets and the best operator in global hybrid voice broking, and traditional interdealer product areas of Treasury products, Phiz has launched a number of initiatives to deliver the plan.
InterestRate Derivatives and Fixed Income.
Amongst the many strategic initiatives that were taken in 2015, It is not possible to predict when the structural and cyclical factors themost significant was the announcement in November that currently adversely affecting the interdealer broker industry will theCompany had agreed terms with ICAP plc for Tullett Prebon ease, or when the level of activity in the wholesale OTC financial toacquire ICAPs global hybrid voice broking and information markets may increase.
Our recent performance has benefited from business, including ICAPs associated technology and broking the buoyant level of activity in the Energy and commodities platforms including iSwap and Fusion, certain of ICAPs joint markets, particularly in oil and oil related financial instruments, ventures and associates, and certain intellectual property rights and this level of activity may not persist.
We have taken further including the ICAP name.
cost improvement action and we will continue to actively manage The transaction will combine the complementary strengths of two our cost base to reflect market conditions.
leading global hybrid voice broking franchises, and will establish a We took a number of initiatives during 2015 in pursuit of our goal stronger platform to deliver our objectives.
On completion of the to become the worlds most trusted source of liquidity in hybrid transaction or shortly thereafter, the Company will be renamed OTC markets and the best operator in global hybrid voice broking.
TP ICAP plc or a derivation thereof.
The agreement for the acquisition of ICAPs global hybrid voice Completion of the transaction is subject to a number of conditions broking and information business provides a unique opportunity being satisfied including approvals from competition authorities toaccelerate the delivery of our strategy, and we are in the and regulatory authorities, and consents from the shareholders of processof planning the integration of the two businesses to be both companies and various other parties.
We expect to complete implemented after completion of the transaction which we the transaction during 2016. expectwill be during 2016.
We will continue to look for opportunities to deliver our objectives Trading and dividend to build revenue and raise the quality and quantity of earnings Revenue of 796m in 2015 was 13% higher than in 2014 with through further diversification of the client base, continued underlying operating profit increasing by 7% to 108m.
The expansion into Energy and commodities, and building scale in underlying operating profit margin in 2015 of 13.6% is 0.7% points theAmericas and Asia Pacific, whilst preserving the businesss lower than in 2014 reflecting the investments being made in the corefranchises.
Underlying earnings per share for 2015 of 32.2p are 0.1p lower than for 2014, reflecting the increase in the average number of shares in issue following the acquisition of PVM.
Rupert Robson The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 11.25p Chairman per share, making the total dividend for the year 16.85p per share 1 March 2016 2014: 16.85p per share.
The final dividend will be payable on 19 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 29April 2016.
Board and governance I noted last year that the Board had spent a considerable amount oftime reviewing its risk management governance arrangements and its risk management framework, and that one of the conclusions from the review was that the Board should appoint anew Non-executive director with extensive experience in risk management.
In July the Board was delighted to welcome Carol Sergeant as a Non-executive Director and chairman of the Boards new Risk Committee.
Carol has had a long and distinguished career in the City and her extensive knowledge of financial markets and expertise in risk and regulation will be of great value to the Board.
We have continued to actively engage with shareholders during2015, and I believe that we have established a useful and constructive dialogue to ensure that the Board stays abreast of the development of shareholder views on governance, remuneration, and other key issues.
6 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015
