8 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Chairmans Statement The performance of the business in 2015 demonstrates the benefits of our unique position as astrong, customer-focused, low risk retail bank, unburdened by legacy conduct issues.
During my first nine months as Chairman my colleagues have delivered on our strategy and the business has continued to perform well.
We have delivered growth across our core mortgages, savings and credit card businesses, while maintaining our high-quality balance sheet, and generated significant growth in underlying profitability.
I would like to Glen Moreno Chairman extend my thanks to the Board, the management team andall colleagues across the Group for their contribution.
Our customer-focused strategy, underpinned by our culture and strong corporate governance, provides the foundation that makes Virgin Money an attractive investment.
It enables the business to meet the challenges of an evolving regulatory During 2015, our first full year as alisted and competitive environment and ensures the business business, weve taken the opportunity continues to deliver sustainable success for all stakeholders.
to review the Groups governance As aresult of the excellent performance of the business arrangements with aview to ensuring in 2015, including increasing our underlying profit before wecan achieve our strategic objectives tax to 160.3 million, the Board has recommended afinal dividend for 2015 of 3.1 pence per share which will, subject inthe coming years.
to shareholder approval atthe 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM, be paid in May 2016.
Our objective is to increase Our customer-focused strategy, dividend distributions over time as we grow our balance underpinned by our culture and strong sheet andearnings.
corporate governance, provides the As aUK retail bank we are focused on serving domestic foundation that makes Virgin Money customers and continue to support and benefit from the anattractive investment.
resilient UK economy and housing market.
We anticipate that the UK economy will remain supportive of our business in Given the performance of the business, 2016, to the extent that consumers continue to benefit from low interest rates, low inflation and low unemployment levels.
which demonstrates the benefits of our We are however, very aware of the downside risks related unique position as astrong, low risk retail to the impending UK referendum on EU membership, the bank, and the strategic opportunities uncertain outlook for interest rates, and the recent market turbulence caused by the slowdown in emerging markets and ahead of us, I believe wecan look to falling commodity prices, which could potentially have an thefuture with confidence.
adverse impact on the UK economy.
Given the recent trend of inflation being at or very close to zero, the timetable for UK rate rises continues to be pushed back.
Indicators now suggest it could be some time before there is any upward movement in the official Bank Rate, currently at its historical low of 0.5 per cent.
During the year, there were significant developments in regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, including the introduction of the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio, and the UK and European regulatory frameworks continue to evolve.
We are compliant with current CRD IV CRR requirements 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 8 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 9 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 and we continue to work with the relevant authorities on afocus.
Indeed, diversity at all levels of the business will be the introduction of regulations connected to the Financial apriority in 2016, and in the years to come, as we continually Services Banking Reform Act 2013.
The Act will result in the strive to ensure that those who work for our business reflect ring-fencing of retail and commercial banking operations to the customers weserve, enabling us to provide arelevant, separate them from investment banking activities.
Given that practical and personal banking service.
we are aUK focused retail bank, we expect our entire business A responsible business will be within the ring-fence when it comes into efect at the We are committed to supporting the communities in which beginning of 2019. wework, to help them flourish, both socially and economically.
Governance and Directors We remain dedicated to our charitable initiatives and I am We are committed to strong corporate governance and as delighted with the continued success of Virgin Money Giving, aBoard we rigorously challenge each other on strategy, our not-for-profit online donation service.
92.5 million, performance, accountability and risk and control, to ensure including Gift Aid, was donated to charities through Virgin that the decisions we make are of the highest quality.
During 2015, our first full year as alisted business, I took the In August, we launched the Virgin Money Foundation the opportunity to review the Groups governance arrangements, Foundation anew, independent charitable foundation including Board composition and efectiveness, with aview thatwill focus initially on community projects in the North toensuring we can achieve our strategic objectives in the East of England, and over time will grow to operate nationally.
As aconsequence of the review, there have We were delighted that the Government committed been anumber of changes to strengthen the team.
4 million of funding 1 million per year for four years which Virgin Money will match.
The Foundation will promote I am delighted that Peter Bole will join us as CFO in 2017, the sustainable regeneration of economically and socially following which he will be appointed as an Executive Director.
deprived communities in the UK and will include social Peter is an accomplished professional with first-class strategic investment in community housing and building projects, financial management experience.
This appointment followed promoting opportunities for youth work and training, as well Lee Rochfords decision to leave the business in August 2015. as investing in projects designed to relieve unemployment.
We were also delighted to welcome Geeta Gopalan to the Board in June, as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
We are committed to working responsibly with all of our Geetas broad experience and knowledge of the financial stakeholders and look to partner with businesses that services industry, including digital innovation, will be invaluable genuinely understand and share our philosophy of making to us as we continue to grow the business.
We appointed everyone better of.
As aresult, we are very supportive of Marilyn Spearing as Chair of the Remuneration Committee The Modern Slavery Act 2015 and we will report against our following Olivia Dicksons announcement that she would retire progress in our 2016 Annual Report.
from the Board on 31 December 2015.
James B Lockhart III, Remuneration WL Rosss nominee director, also stepped down as aNonOur remuneration structure, at all levels, is designed to Executive Director of the Company in September, as aresult ensure rewards are aligned with the long-term success of the of WL Ross, previously acontrolling shareholder of the Group, business and the interests of our shareholders.
Variable pay reducing its shareholding.
The Board recognises the significant for Senior Executives is delivered through acombination of contribution made by Olivia, Jim and Lee, and I would like to annual bonus and aLong Term Incentive Plan linked to future thank them for their contribution to the Group.
business performance both with appropriate deferral.
All Colleagues and diversity deferred awards are subject to afurther risk assessment We have astrong, experienced management team and before release, with clawback provisions applying thereafter.
committed, engaged colleagues who are focused on delivering In total, the 2015 variable pay pool represented 14percent the needs of our customers and stakeholders.
As aBoard of pre-bonus profit before tax.
More information on how we we believe that diversity helps to improve the quality of ensure our approach to remuneration supports the business decision making and we are committed to increasing the strategy can be found in our remuneration report on page 111. diversity of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
As the Board evolves over time, diversity will remain 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 9 01 03 2016 11:02 10 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 I Chairmans Statement Looking ahead Our business model and strategy give us the flexibility to continue to deliver for shareholders in the face of the changing economic and competitive environment, as well as the evolving regulatory regime.
It will be important to adapt continually to the changing landscape of the future, including the digital transformation of UK retail banking.
As aBoard, we have assessed the viability of the business over athree year period.
Based on this assessment, including the results of our stress testing, we believe we are very well placed to make the most of the opportunities that exist and we can look to the future with confidence.
I am delighted to welcome the increasing number of retail and institutional shareholders investing in Virgin Money and look forward to engaging with shareholders over the course of 2016.
I would like to reiterate my thanks to my fellow Board members, the senior leadership team and all colleagues for their contribution to everything we have achieved together in 2015.
Glen Moreno Chairman 1 March 2016 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
indd 10 01 03 2016 11:02 Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2015 11 I 2015 Highlights 2 Chairmans Statement 8 Chief Executives Review 12 Market Overview 18 Business Model and Strategy 22 Delivering our Strategy 24 Delivering to our Stakeholders 28 Risk Overview 45 54 73 139 209 Virgin Money Lounge, Glasgow 4175 VM 0.0 Strategic Report.
