Strategic Report Chairmans Statement OUR RESULTS As a result of market conditions, reported revenues fell to 1.9bn, with pre-tax profits from continuing operations, before exceptional items and intangibles Navigating amortisation, of 220m: a significant decrease of 46% on 2014, reflecting a substantial downturn in oil and gas markets, the continuing reduction in capital expenditure by mining customers and project deferrals in power markets.
On a constant currency basis, revenues were challenging 22% lower year-on-year, with pre-tax profits falling 47%.
The Group was swift to react to deteriorating conditions, including reducing costs to support competitiveness.
At the same time substantial progress was made in a number of strategic areas to ensure Weir retains and markets extends its global leadership positions in the future.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all those who worked for the Group in 2015, for their dedication and commitment to serving our customers.
The Groups 2015 financial performance was DIVIDEND significantly affected by declines in its main We are proposing a final dividend payment of 29p per markets as customers sought to reduce spending share, making 44p for the full year.
in response to falling commodity prices.
While STRATEGY responding quickly to these market issues, the The Group has deliberately chosen to serve markets Group also made substantial strategic progress which are crucial to the worlds continuing long-term aimed at delivering significant shareholder value economic development.
As the global population grows and increasingly urbanises, it will need more in the future.
Currently available supplies are depleting and investment will be needed to meet future demand.
Weir has developed leadership positions in these structurally strong markets, creating an extensive installed base of equipment.
The Group has used its success and materials expertise in one product range to expand into other complementary technologies, supported by a comprehensive service network in over 70 countries, helping to capture valuable aftermarket opportunities for spare parts and services.
Our competitive advantages are based on our four strategic pillars: innovation: collaboration: value chain excellence: and global capability.
Even in tough markets it is important the Group continues to execute its strategy successfully.
By putting our customers at the heart of our business, we ensure we meet their changing needs today while also investing in the engineering solutions which will make them more efficient and productive in the future.
Chief Executive Keith Cochrane gives more detail of the Groups 2015 strategic progress from page 16.
CHARLES BERRY Chairman The Weir Group PLC 08 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III IMPROVING SAFETY THE BOARD Improving the Groups safety record is on the agenda of As part of the Boards annual programme, we visited Strategy The Group has deliberately every Board meeting as we work towards making Weir the Groups operations in Alberta in Canada, where Weir chosen to serve markets a zero-accident workplace.
We were pleased to see the serves customers in oil and gas and oil sands markets.
which are crucial to the worlds continuing long-term Group continue to improve in this important area with It was a valuable opportunity to meet local stakeholders, economic development.
a further reduction in the Total Incident Rate achieved as including government representatives, in what is an Read more from p10.
the first stage of the Groups Environment and Health important part of the Groups global operations.
and Safety EHS roadmap was completed.
More details can be found from page 51.
At the beginning of 2016, Minerals Managing Director Dean Jenkins joined the Board as Chief Operating Officer.
A PROUD PARTNER IN OUR COMMUNITIES Dean is uniquely qualified for the role as an engineer who Weir has always been an active member of the has led two of the Groups three divisions, having joined communities we work in.
In Scotland, in the early Weir as Managing Director of our Power & Industrial years of the 20th century, we were the first company division in 2010. to establish an apprentice school ensuring future generations were given vital engineering training.
Today, Looking to the rest of 2016, we will continue to face we continue to work closely with community partners challenging market conditions reflecting uncertain all over the world.
This includes supporting educational, short-term prospects for global economic growth.
health and other charitable projects.
In 2015, we spent As it has always done, Weir will navigate these waters more than 900m across our supply chain, helping carefully, relying on the commitment of our 14,000 to support employment throughout the world, while the staff and the resilience provided by our strategy and Group also donated almost 500,000 to charitable causes.
When markets recover, we will be well placed to benefit because of the important work Living by the Groups values doing all we can to make we are undertaking now.
our customers successful, finding innovative solutions, caring for our colleagues, acting with integrity and an enduring commitment to quality in all we do help to build a successful and sustainable business.
In 2015, the Group made progress in a variety of sustainability arenas including the continued growth of Weirs network CHARLES BERRY of academic partners, which resulted in new research Chairman projects with a number of institutions worldwide.
Weir 24 February 2016 is also continuing the Groups commitment to innovation and the creation of long-term sustainable products that aim to minimise environmental impact.
When markets recover, we will be well placed to benefit because of the important work we are undertaking now.
We have continued to support staff as they develop their skills through our training programmes which offer a wide variety of opportunities for continuous professional development.
Training undertaken using our Weir University online portal has increased substantially in the last year.
The Weir Group PLC 09 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
