Woodford Patient Capital Trust annual results Chairmans statement Welcome to the maiden set of annual results for Woodford Patient Capital Trust, covering the period from the Companys inception on 26 January 2015 to its 31 December 2015 year end.
The Board was delighted with the investment communitys enthusiastic response to the launch of Woodford Patient Capital Trust last spring.
As a result, the initial 200m public offering was increased as the concept of investing patient capital in early-stage and early-growth businesses captured investors imagination.
The resized share issue of 800m was itself oversubscribed, which the Board viewed as a tremendous endorsement of the patient capital strategy.
The net asset value of Woodford Patient Capital Trust ended the period at 97.38p per share cum income, slightly below the issue price of 100p per share.
A detailed assessment of the portfolios progress follows in the managers review but performance since launch is broadly in line with the Boards expectations, given the long-term nature of this investment vehicle and the deterioration in market sentiment over the period.
Since dealings in the Companys shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange on 21 April 2015, Neil and his investment team have been busy building the portfolio, a process that was completed shortly before year end.
As the Woodford team has constructed the portfolio the opportunity set has emerged as deeper and richer than originally anticipated, further strengthening already high levels of confidence in the investment rationale.
The team continues to identify what it believes is a significant volume of attractive investment opportunities for the Company, including new investment opportunities, from a variety of sources, as well as follow-on investments in existing portfolio companies.
Accordingly, in January, we announced we were looking at ways to raise additional capital.
With the continuing uncertainty prevailing in markets, now is not an appropriate time to raise capital.
The Board will, however, monitor the situation and advise shareholders of any developments.
In order to retain the Companys status as an investment trust, a resolution to declare a final dividend of 0.16 pence per share will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting, which is due to take place on 9 May 2016.
The dividend will be payable on 10 June 2016 to shareholders who appear on the shareholder register as at 20 May 2016.
The Board firmly believes in the strategy of investing in highly promising early-stage opportunities with patient capital and is confident of the long-term prospects for the Company.
Susan Searle Chairman 21 March 2016 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 13
