235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 03 1 Strategic Report I am delighted to report that your Company Chairmans Statement has continued to perform strongly both in Sir Martin Smith absolute terms and also compared to its Benchmark.
Shareholders have benefited from having OrbiMed as our Review of the Year and Performance Portfolio Manager.
They are the worlds largest specialist I am delighted to report that your Company has continued to healthcare fund manager with an exceptional performance perform strongly both in absolute terms and also compared record and an experienced team of over 80 people that has to the Benchmark.
The Companys net asset value per share expertise in all healthcare sub-sectors across a wide range total return was 53.0% and the share price total return was of geographies.
49.8%, both significantly outperforming the Companys benchmark, the MSCI World Health Care Index on a net total Performance Fee return, sterling adjusted basis, which rose by 35.9%.
At The continued strong performance of the Company when 31 March 2015 the discount of share price to the Companys compared to the Benchmark has given rise to performance net asset value per share stood at 5.4% compared to 3.5% a fees payable during the year ended 31 March 2015 of 8.8m year ago.
shared between Frostrow and OrbiMed as set out on The positive contributions to performance were varied page 27.
I remind shareholders that under the provisions of reflecting the strong fundamentals of the healthcare sector.
our performance fee arrangements, actual performance is The Company benefitted in particular from strong compared to the benchmark return since the launch of the performance from U. S. based specialty pharmaceutical Company in 1995 and only when incremental outperformance company Actavis, biotechnology companies Medivation, has been generated does a performance fee become payable.
Intermune and Regeneron, and healthcare provider HCA.
The To prevent a fee being paid with respect to a spike in principal detractor from performance was medical device performance, due to the volatile nature of the sector, a fee is company Insulet, following the identification of certain only paid once the outperformance has been maintained for a reporting irregularities.
The Company was, on average, 12% 2014: 14% geared In addition to the payments referred to above, a further during the year which again proved to be beneficial.
This provision has been made as at 31 March 2015 which relates enabled the Company to take advantage of strong market to outperformance generated at that date but which will only performance and contributed c. 3.7% 2014: 2.5% to the become payable at future performance fee calculation dates Companys performance.
In addition, the Companys in the event that the outperformance is maintained.
This total derivative strategy also contributed c. 3.7% 2014: 2.0% to provision amounts to 16.7m and reflects not only the returns.
significant outperformance achieved during the year but also the sustained outperformance since the beginning of 2013.
Further information on the Companys investments can be found in the Portfolio Managers Review beginning on page 12 Capital of this Annual Report.
The Companys subscription shares expired on 31 July 2014 On 28 April 2015 the Company celebrated a significant and a total of 1,860,969 new shares were issued as a result of milestone, its twentieth birthday!
Over its twenty year life the holders of subscription shares exercising their subscription total return of the Companys net asset value per share has rights.
As part of the Boards discount control management been 2,103.8%, equivalent to a compound annual return of policy, a total of 723,427 ordinary shares were repurchased by 16.5%.
This compares to a cumulative blended benchmark the Company during the year up until the date of this report, return of 947.7%, equivalent to a compound annual return of to be held in treasury, at an average discount of 6.9% to the 11.9% over the same period.
On behalf of the Board and prevailing diluted ex income net asset value per share.
shareholders I would like to pay tribute to and congratulate 318,596 of these shares were, however, reissued from OrbiMed on the excellent returns they have generated over treasury at share prices that equated to an average discount this period.
2.5% to the prevailing diluted cum income net asset value per share.
There are currently 404,831 shares held in treasury.
See inside front cover for further information Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 03 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 04 Shareholder approval to renew the authority to buy-back varied its permissions with the FCA in order to take on the ordinary shares will be sought at the Annual General role of Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The execution and timing of any share buy-back will provisions of the AIFMD Frostrow has delegated the portfolio continue to be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
management function to OrbiMed Capital LLC.
The fees payable to both Frostrow and OrbiMed have remained Any ordinary shares held in treasury on 24 September 2015, unchanged and your Board is delighted that compliance with the date of this years Annual General Meeting, will be the new regulations has been achieved.
Until July 2014 the Company employed Goldman Sachs as its 25,000 new ordinary shares were also issued during the year Custodian and Prime Broker.
In order to comply with the at a 0.7% premium to the prevailing cum income net asset AIFMD the Company was required to appoint a Depositary value per share at the time of issue to satisfy demand in the which was a service that Goldman Sachs were not able to market.
I would like to thank Goldman Sachs for the excellent service they provided to the Company over their Revenue and Dividend tenure.
I am pleased to report that the Board have appointed Shareholders will be aware that it remains the Companys JP Morgan as its Depositary and Prime Broker and that these policy to pursue capital growth for shareholders and to pay arrangements are working well.
dividends to the extent required to maintain investment trust Achieving compliance with the AIFMD has been a significant status and therefore the level of dividends declared can go piece of work not only for the Board but also for our service down as well as up.
A first interim dividend of 6.0p per share, providers.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues for the for the year ended 31 March 2015, was paid on 9 January significant contribution they made during the year, in 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 5 December particular Jo Dixon our Audit Committee Chairman.
The Companys net revenue return for the year as a whole has fallen slightly to 6.2 million 2014: 7.2 million.
Proposed Changes to the Companys In order to maintain investment trust status, the Board has Articles of Association declared a second interim dividend of 6.5p per share which, together with the first interim dividend already paid, makes a It is proposed that the Company adopts new Articles of total dividend for the year of 12.5p 2014: 15.0p per share.
Association to enable it, inter alia, to comply with its Based on the current mid-market share price of 1897p as on obligations under various international tax regulations.
A 23 June 2015, the total dividend payment for the year Special Resolution will be proposed at the Annual General represents a current yield of 0.7%.
Meeting which will, if approved, ratify the adoption of new amended Articles of Association.
The material differences The second interim dividend will be payable on 14 July 2015 between the current and the proposed amended Articles of to ordinary shareholders on the register of members on Association are summarised on page 81 of the Annual 12 June 2015.
The associated ex-dividend date was Report.
Investment Policy Alternative Investment Fund Managers Shareholder approval to amend the Companys Investment Directive and Service Providers Policy was obtained at a General Meeting of the Company During the year the Alternative Investment Fund Managers held in April 2015.
The Companys borrowing policy, Directive AIFMD took effect and your Board made a contained within the old Investment Policy, limited the number of changes to its service provider arrangements in Companys borrowing to the lower of 120 million or 20% of order to achieve compliance with this regulation.
I am the Companys net asset value.
Given the significant growth pleased to report that Frostrow Capital LLP successfully in the Company, the monetary limit was potentially restrictive Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 04 235876 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp22new 03 07 2015 12:31 Page 05 1 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued to the Companys ability to deploy borrowing effectively.
The Annual General Meeting Directors therefore sought and obtained shareholder The Company offers the U. K. based investor an excellent approval to delete the monetary amount such that the opportunity to gain exposure to the global healthcare sector, Companys borrowing limit is now set simply at a maximum and the Board is pleased to note the increasing presence of of 20% of the Companys net asset value.
retail shareholders on the Companys share register.
The Board is keen to welcome all shareholders and the In addition, the Companys ability to invest in certain Companys Annual General Meeting offers an opportunity to healthcare sectors was limited to 15% of the portfolio, at the meet the Directors and also to hear the views of our Portfolio time of acquisition.
This limit was also considered to be Manager.
This year, the Annual General Meeting of the restrictive given the opportunities available in the global Company will be held at Skinners Hall, 8 Dowgate Hill, healthcare market and has been increased to 20% of the London EC4R 2SP on Thursday, 24 September 2015 at portfolio, at the time of acquisition.
12 noon, and we hope as many shareholders as possible will The Companys Investment Policy can be found on pages 6 attend.
and 7 of this Annual Report.
Outlook Sir Martin Smith Following a sustained period of outperformance from the Chairman healthcare sector, our Portfolio Manager continues to believe 24 June 2015 in the sectors strong fundamentals namely: continued merger and acquisition activity: new product launches: strong product pipelines: and the net positive impact of the Affordable Care Act in the U. S. Our Portfolio Managers focus continues to be on the selection of stocks with strong prospects and your Board reiterates its belief that the long-term investor in the sector will be well rewarded.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 05 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015
