Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Weve had another active and productive year We have continued to ensure our portfolio comprises attractive, well located assets focused around the way people work, shop and live.
Our decision to increase our exposure to London and invest in the continued reshaping of our retail portfolio has enabled us to benefit from strong markets, and our business has continued to do well.
Over the year, we undertook 2.4 billion of gross investment activity, increasing our weighting in London and the South East from 50% five years ago to 64% today.
Activity included the recent acquisition of One Sheldon Square, a strategic piece of Paddington Central, which brings our total investment at the campus to 800,000 sq ft. We continued to reshape our retail portfolio, reducing our investment in superstores to under 7% of the portfolio and increasing our investment in assets we like, such as multi-let shopping parks in the South.
We had an exceptional period for leasing with 2.4 million sq ft of lettings and renewals across the business taking our overall occupancy to 98%.
Key highlights of the year We also progressed our development programme.
At the Total accounting return Leadenhall Building, we completed one of Londons most iconic buildings.
The letting up of the building was one of the highlights of the year.
We decided early on to focus on the lower floors, holding 24.5% back the higher floors until the building was completed.
This strategy has paid off: the Leadenhall Building is now 84% let at record rents.
Reflecting the increase in our net asset We completed a new restaurant re-development at Broadgate value per share and income yield from the dividend Circle, delivered extensions on almost 200,000 sq ft of retail assets, and pre-sold over half of the apartments at Clarges Mayfair, our super-prime residential development.
At Paddington, we are now EPRA net value per share on site at 4 Kingdom Street constructing a further 147,000 sq ft of office space.
829p Successful property companies today need to be more than just good Up 20.5% investors: they need to really understand the needs of occupiers and their end users.
Our strategic focus to create Places People Prefer kept us busy and is the reason our properties are in demand and are Dividend per share virtually fully let.
The market is constantly changing and we need to ensure we 27.68p keep pace and respond to some of the key macro trends including Up 2.5%, in line with previous urbanisation, and the transformational impact of technology.
This announcements is having a profound effect on the way people live and the way they use real estate.
We have made significant efforts in recent years to understand the people who visit our properties and have repositioned our portfolio to serve their needs and to reflect the way the market is changing.
Creating environments is what British Land does best and where we have a real competitive advantage.
This continued focus is delivering attractive long term returns for our shareholders.
Underlying pre-tax profit was up 5.4% to 313 million.
The value 4 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Creating environments is what British Land does best and where we have real competitive advantage.
of our portfolio now stands at 13.6 billion and NAV was up 20.5% to 829 pence per share.
The Board has recommended a fourth quarter dividend of 6.92 pence per share making a total of 27.68 pence for the year.
The total accounting return was 24.5%.
Our social and environmental initiatives make a real and positive difference, adding value to our assets.
Our activities are valued by our occupiers and the communities in which we operate and are integral to our approach to doing business.
Our focus on sustainability is not new but this year we have further refined our priorities to ensure that we are responding to developing trends and opportunities.
We focus on wellbeing, community, operational efficiency and developing skills and opportunities for growth.
Our approach is one that has been recognised again this year in global indices and is a great endorsement of our activities.
In July 2014, Dido Harding stood down as a Non-Executive Director following her appointment as a non-executive director at the Court of the Bank of England.
I would like to thank Dido for the very valuable contribution she has made to British Land.
Following Didos departure, Lord Turnbull agreed to stay on our board for a further two years as Senior Independent Director.
We appointed Lynn Gladden, pro-vice-chancellor for research and Shell Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University of Cambridge as a Non-Executive Director in March 2015.
Lynn has strong business experience and throughout her career has forged partnerships with major industrial partners.
In May 2015, we also appointed Laura Wade-Gery, executive director Multi Channel, Marks and Spencer plc as a Non-Executive Director.
Our strategic focus to create Laura brings huge retail experience, particularly of e-commerce Places People Prefer has kept and multi channel markets.
Both appointments further broaden the experience of our Board.
us busy and is the reason our We have done much to reposition the portfolio and we are well properties are in demand placed to benefit from the wider macro trends influencing real estate today.
While the recent General Election has removed one and virtually fully let.
element of uncertainty others remain, but I am confident that we are well placed to deliver continued outperformance, and look forward to the year ahead.
Full year results 2015 video www.
com results Chief Executives review see pages 6 to 9 Chairmans governance review see pages 68 to 69 John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Chairman British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5
