Chairmans review I am pleased to present Hansteens results and Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Once again it was a record year.
EPRA NAV grew by 9.5p per share after payment of dividends of 8.1p per share, which included a special dividend of 3p per share, making a total return on capital to shareholders of 17.6p per share or 17.3%.
2015 was Hansteens tenth year since its initial public offering on AIM in November 2005.
It has been a volatile decade which included the banking and financial crisis and during this period our business has grown substantially.
We have joined the main market of the London Stock Exchange, converted to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, entered the FTSE 250 and EPRA indices and assembled a property portfolio of more than 1.4 billion.
Hansteens ten-year record of total shareholder return has been amongst the top 10% in the sector.
From the start, the business has paid a fully covered dividend which has grown steadily over the period and is now 75% higher than the first dividend in 2006.
Results The shareholders weighted average total return over the Hansteens IFRS pre-tax profit for the year increased by ten year period, based on either share price and dividends 30.6% to 171.4 million 2014: 131.2 million.
This is a record or on NAV plus dividends, has been amongst the top result for Hansteen and reflects a strong performance for performing in the REIT sector.
Based on NAV growth plus the business throughout the year.
The property valuation dividends, the weighted average return on capital invested improvement of the owned or co-owned portfolio was by our shareholders is more than 11% per annum.
On share 153.8 million, an increase of 11.1% over the year.
price plus dividends the return is 13.6% per annum.
Normalised Income Profit NIP, which excludes profits or The Boards strategy has consistently been to focus losses from the sale of properties, essentially the recurring on realised returns through rental income and profit on earnings of the business, were 47.2 million 2014: 48.2 sales generated from a strong and diversified tenant base.
Normalised Total Profit NTP, being NIP plus This allows Hansteen to pay a well-covered and growing profits and losses from property sales and realised profits dividend.
When Hansteen was listed in 2005, a Founder from one-off items, was 63.2 million 2014: 65.3 million.
Long Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP was approved Both NIP and NTP were adversely affected by the fall in the by the shareholders.
No awards have been made under value of the euro.
The Income statement is prepared using the LTIP since it was introduced ten years ago.
However, the average currency exchange rate for the year under as a result of the high returns earned by the business over review.
The sterling: euro exchange rate applied in our 2015 the last three-year performance period, the Joint Chief results was 11% lower than that in 2014.
Both the NIP and Executives have received a material award, under the the NTP would have exceeded the 2014 figures had the Founder LTIP, of 12.1 million shares each, after deduction of exchange rate remained constant.
PAYE and National Insurance contributions.
Full details of both the plan and the award calculation are set out in the The Groups EPRA Net Asset Value was 111.2p per share Financial review.
2014: 101.7p after paying both a normal dividend of 5.1p per share and a special dividend of 3p per share.
04 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 111.2p 171.4m 153.8m EPRA Net Asset Value per share IFRS pre-tax profit Property valuation increase Later this year we will all have to contend with the results Dividend The Board is committed to a prudently progressive dividend of the referendum regarding Britains membership of the European Union EU.
In all probability, as the referendum policy to reflect the high and growing income generated by approaches, activity in the property investment market the business.
will slow materially as investors wait to see the result before committing to large sales or purchases.
Should the The interim dividend paid on 20 November 2015 was referendum result in a decision to remain, it is likely that increased to 2.1p per share November 2014: 2.0p per the property market will normalise relatively quickly.
If share, and the second ongoing dividend is being increased however the decision is to leave the EU, then there could to 3.15p per share May 2015: 3p per share.
This represents be a protracted period of uncertainty as the details of both a 5% increase in the full year dividend.
The ex-dividend date Britains withdrawal and the aftermath are worked out.
is 21 April 2016 and this dividend is payable on 19 May 2016 This may well result in turbulence in the financial markets to shareholders on the register at the close of business on and the property market for a period.
A Property Income Distribution PID of 1.35p the Group is well positioned to weather any such turbulence is included in this second interim dividend payment.
due to the diverse tenant base, geographical spread of assets and exposure to both sterling and euro.
Board changes As stated in the interim report, Richard Mully, a NonIt is likely that a low interest rate environment will prevail in Executive Director retired from the Board at the AGM in the UK and European economies over the next few years.
June 2015, after nine years as a Board member.
Richard This scenario should play to the strengths of our business Cotton also retired from the Board on 30 September 2015 model.
Unlike many companies in the property sector, after five years as a Non-Executive Director.
Humphrey Hansteen has the capacity to continue to grow earnings Price has indicated that he will retire from the Board at the through a combination of improving occupancy, rental Annual General Meeting in 2016 and he will not propose growth and income enhancing trading such as selling lower himself for re-election.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to yielding properties and buying higher yielding properties.
thank both Richards and Humphrey for their exceptional contributions to Hansteen since their appointment, during Industrial yields remain significantly above both the long which time the Company has grown rapidly, and we wish and short-term cost of money.
In our sector of the market, them well for the future.
we have not seen the trend of speculative trading that occurred in the previous boom nor have values reached As part of the process of succession planning for Nontheir previous highs.
Whilst other property sectors may Executive Directors, Margaret Young and David Rough were have already enjoyed the bulk of value growth for this cycle, welcomed to the Board on 1 October 2015.
Margaret was we expect industrial property to continue to benefit and to appointed a member of the Audit Committee and David was show relative outperformance in terms of both income and appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee, capital growth.
effective from the same date.
Rebecca Worthington will succeed Humphrey as Chair of the Audit Committee upon his retirement.
Outlook James Hambro The Joint Chief Executives are fully committed to the Chairman business they founded.
Following the award under the Founder LTIP, without any contractual obligation to do so, 14 March 2016 they have chosen to retain more than double their previous shareholding in Hansteen from circa nine million to in excess of 18 million shares.
They are embarking on a new three-year Founder LTIP cycle which will permit them to participate in the returns created in excess of a compound benchmark of 10% per annum.
The Board believes that the combination of their substantial shareholdings and the ongoing Founder LTIP align the Joint Chief Executives interests directly with those of shareholders.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
