6 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Chairmans statement Our focus is to deliver strong returns over the medium term through rental growth in our existing assets and superior returns from our development pipeline the industry and our end customers.
intu Lakeside and intu Eldon Square both won BCSC Gold awards in the last two years for their redevelopment works.
We have received excellent customer feedback at our newly opened developments at intu Victoria Centre and intu Potteries where visitor numbers have increased even beyond our high expectations.
intu and its customer proposition continue to increase brand traction with retail customers, brand partners and shoppers as well as wider audiences.
The intu brand made its presence felt in the Spanish market when we rebranded Parque Principado, Oviedo as intu Asturias in June 2015 and this has been very well received by both customers and retailers.
It is now nearly six years since we We continue to be at the forefront of demerged and three years since our sector in terms of digital and we introduced the intu brand.
Our in-house this period we have been shaping the digital innovation team is fully integrated business to enable growth and ensure we into the wider business and delivering a are well placed both to take advantage series of industry-leading developments of improvements in the market and while the customer experience team has to withstand any adversity.
We have a comprehensive programme of signature focused on delivering our strategic experience initiatives both focused on objectives rather than being exclusively delivering a compelling experience in preoccupied with short-term gains.
has proved to be the right thing to do, We have focused as our results this year show.
Managed For more details of our performance this way, our prime retail real estate on delivering our this year may I refer you to the interview is an attractive investment delivering strategic objectives with our Chief Executive on pages long-term security.
8 and 9 where David Fischel answers key rather than being questions about our business and to the Overview of 2015 activity exclusively preoccupied financial review presented by our Chief A key highlight of the year was the Financial Officer Matthew Roberts on return to positive like-for-like net with short-term gains.
pages 46 to 51. rental income growth.
This, along This has proved to with strong operating metrics that have Corporate responsibility outperformed national benchmarks, be the right thing Our centres are integral to the is a validation of the repositioning work to do, as our results communities we serve.
Although we we have done in the last few years.
are an international brand, we are rooted this year show in our local communities.
We create The expertise and skills of our in-house significant economic contributions to team in continually improving our these communities, through regional assets have been recognised by both intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report 7 Chairmans statement employment and development and by Like-for-like net rental income growth Our approach to supporting community groups to address in 2015 corporate responsibility fundamental societal issues that are As a long-term and sustainable important to our long-term success.
business our corporate responsibility We measure total economic contribution approach is based on three pillars: through the gross value added GVA 1.8% model: in 2015 this was valued at 2014: -3.2% Communities and 4.2 billion 2014: 3.5 billion.
economic contribution Environmentally, we are focused on our Reduction in CO e emissions intensity 2 Environmental long-term goals and are working towards since 2011 efficiency our 2020 targets, including our new carbon target which now measures Relationships with emissions intensity rather than an our stakeholders absolute quantity.
I am pleased to say 39% we remain on course to achieve these Read more on pages 52 to 55 and you can nd more details on our progress on pages 52 to 55. retired as Chief Operating Officer in December 2015.
We have valued the intu staff are an important part of this contributions they have both made External recognition of our progress and have delivered impressive to our progress very highly.
sustainability performance results over the past year, particularly in the areas of environmental management Dividends and community engagement through Your Directors are recommending a final a multitude of partnerships.
dividend of 9.1 pence per share, bringing the amount paid and payable in respect Our people of 2015 to 13.7 pence, unchanged from GRESB I would like to record my thanks to the 2014 dividend.
A scrip dividend [logo to be the Board and all our staff for their alternative may be offered.
supplied] commitment and dedication to intus values and vision in the year.
Looking forward We continue to focus on our key strategic At the heart of intus success are the objectives which put us in a position people who deliver these results for where we can take advantage of a you, from apprentices, through senior continued upturn in the economy, and managers to the Board.
We look to also allow us to better withstand any employ and retain the very best people future downturns.
The strong and to keep us at the forefront of the stable income streams from our quality shopping centre industry.
shopping centres will be supported and supplemented by growth through our I welcome Rakhi Parekh Goss-Custard development pipeline as we embark on and John Strachan to the Board.
They the next exciting phase of investment, bring a wealth of experience from the across both the UK and Spain.
internet retail and retail property environment respectively.
We are Our brand proposition around events, fortunate to have a Board which takes community, customer service and digital a keen interest in our operations.
This will continue to enhance the customer gives a real vitality to our corporate experience and attractiveness of intu governance arrangements, while allowing centres to both retailers and customers.
our executive team the freedom it needs.
In Spain, we will replicate our successful I am also pleased to report that this year UK model both operationally in we welcomed our first apprentices in our our existing two centres and on the new national apprenticeship scheme and development front at intu Costa del Sol.
we achieved silver Investor in People accreditation at 14 intu-branded shopping Our focus is to deliver strong returns over centres.
intu Trafford Centre retained its the medium term through rental growth gold standard.
in our existing assets and superior returns from our development pipeline.
Finally, on behalf of the Board I would like to thank Neil Sachdev who will step down Patrick Burgess as a Director at the 2016 AGM after over Chairman nine years and Mike Butterworth who 26 February 2016 CommunityMark
