038 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Dear Shareholder In his Chief Executives statement, Robert Noel reported on a very strong set of results for the year.
He noted that the business was in excellent shape, with our developments and portfolios well matched to customer demand.
I endorse his view and thank my colleagues at Land Securities for what they have achieved.
Their dedication and hard work have not only made this years results possible, they have laid the foundations for long-term success.
Governance I am pleased to report that your Company has once again complied in full with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
We are also taking steps to achieve compliance with the Code changes introduced in 2014.
In a year that saw our markets continue to change, much of the Boards activity has been around positioning the business for the next stage of the property cycle.
We devoted significant agenda time to consider our options for the redevelopment of two shopping centres Westgate, Oxford, and Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow and to the acquisition and disposal of high value properties.
LETTER FROM Making the right call on the property cycle requires the best data, the best people, good judgement and clear communication between THE CHAIRMAN management and the Board.
Critical because when the property cycle turns, which it will, our markets are likely to move quickly and our At Land Securities, governance is not just confined business must already be well positioned and well prepared.
It is an integral part of the way Across all areas, the Board should be able to contribute to key operational decisions and provide we manage our business and control our activities challenge to management in a meaningful and timely way.
This will be essential for truly effective every day.
stewardship at Land Securities over the coming years.
We spent much time discussing this as part of our most recent Board evaluation.
One of the keys to good communication between management and the Board is an effective relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Robert and I have regularly scheduled meetings to discuss the progress of the business.
We speak, email and meet frequently in between.
We are appreciative of the differences in our roles and responsibilities and are conscious of what shareholders expect from each of us.
This year has seen stability at Board and Executive level following the changes which took place last year.
Our focus therefore changed from appointments to succession planning, both at Board and senior management level.
I explain more about this in my report to shareholders on the work of the Nominations Committee.
Investor meetings During the year, I offered to meet a number of our largest investors to hear their views on Land Securities, its strategy, management and governance.
I was delighted that the majority agreed to see me.
During these meetings we discussed a wide range of topics.
These included the property market, the lessons learned from mistakes of the past, remuneration policy, our approach to environmental issues and capital allocation.
I also gained their perspectives on governance in general and how it will Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 039 change.
I found it particularly helpful when issues we Board effectiveness Health and safety had not considered before were raised, and where During this years Board performance evaluation The health and safety of our customers, employees, our attention was drawn to practices at other I was keen to gain Directors perspectives on contractors and visitors to our premises is of companies that investors opposed or championed.
our coverage of key topics at Board meetings, paramount importance.
Our safety record remains It is clear that our investors are devoting more information flows and whether geo-political events well ahead of industry benchmarks and we continue resources to governance and that we will have a lot might disrupt our business model and the strong to pursue our goal of zero accidents or injuries at our more to consider and assimilate going forward.
In liquidity within our markets.
response, we have amended the terms of reference where there may have been group-think amongst The business is undergoing extensive health and of the Nominations Committee to give it formal the Board and where we may be vulnerable to it safety training, not just in connection with our responsibility for monitoring trends in governance going forward.
We considered the balance of skills development programme but also in the day-to-day and making recommendations to the Board.
amongst Board members and how we might address activities of all members of staff.
Everyone in the any gaps in our longer-term succession planning.
business is required to attend a tailored programme Remuneration Directors complimented the quality of to suit their particular role.
The Board has been keen In last years Directors Remuneration Report we information and coverage of key topics.
In order to to show its support for this initiative, with every flagged that we may seek shareholder support for reduce the possibility of group-think, Directors asked Director attending different development sites to a new remuneration policy.
This was because our to hear more from specialists with contrary views gain an understanding of the work being undertaken Matching Share Plan needed replacing, as some to management.
They suggested that background by our health and safety teams and to show their investors had told us they did not like it, and 2015 information for some agenda items be provided support, visibly, for the initiatives.
You will find more represented the third anniversary of our current without a recommendation or conclusion, which information on this later in the report, in the arrangements.
We therefore took the opportunity will assist Directors in forming their own views.
Governance in action section on pages 54 to 56. this year to review all aspects of our remuneration During the year, I circulated a list of my structure and to look at our policy in the light of Diversity expectations of the Board.
These set out my changing investor requirements.
We also reviewed I am encouraged to see continued progress amongst requirements in terms of the Directors preparation the pay of our Chief Executive following three companies towards meeting Lord Davies target set before meetings, the challenge and conduct required successful years in post and revisited our long-term in 2011.
Since then, Land Securities has been ranked during meetings, and how they might assist the performance measures to ensure they continue to 5th amongst the most improved companies within business outside meetings.
be properly aligned with investors interests and the FTSE100.
Overall, Land Securities is ranked 10th Whilst I am not expecting any significant changes, promote the long-term success of the Company.
in terms of gender diversity within the index.
These as Directors preparation and conduct at meetings Our remuneration policy is matched to our are achievements of which I am very proud.
is already of a high standard, I believe it is now clear strategy.
Central to this is our aim to outperform our Across the business world there remains some which Non-executives will provide the lead on peers both in terms of total shareholder and total way to go though, with 59 FTSE100 companies still challenging management during discussions on property returns.
In this way, our Executives will only to meet Lord Davies target at March of this year.
I am also expecting the time receive upper quartile rewards for corresponding at Land Securities also have more to do on improving Non-executives devote to interacting with the outperformance.
other aspects of diversity within our own business.
business to become more efficiently spent.
You will In recent times, remuneration outturns have not You will see in Our people strategy section on see a more detailed account of the outcome of the reflected the strong performance of the business, page 19 how we are addressing this.
Board evaluation in the Effectiveness section of such that upper quartile performance has not been this report.
Further information matched with commensurate rewards.
In seeking to Over the following pages we describe our corporate address this, we are further aligning remuneration Outcome from last years Board evaluation governance framework in more detail and, again this with investors interests by increasing the Executive In my letter as Chairman of the Nominations year, we include examples of how our governance Directors share ownership guideline levels, requiring Committee, I describe the progress we have works in practice.
You will find more on our the shares they receive under our long-term made against the areas identified for improvement corporate responsibility activity as part of our 2015 incentives to be held for longer periods and widening during last years Board evaluation.
There is Sustainability Report which can be found at our ability to clawback variable pay awards made one specific area I would like to draw out which www.
illustrates the benefit of devoting significant you find these helpful in understanding our We approached investors who collectively held resources to Board evaluations.
commitment to our stakeholders and to excellence more than 50% of our shares.
The challenges they Last year, some Directors felt that the amount in governance.
raised were similar to those discussed by the of time spent at meetings reviewing operational Committee during its extensive evaluation of the matters should reduce.
Non-executives, in particular, Dame Alison Carnwath proposals.
Where new issues were raised we found it difficult to participate in those discussions.
Chairman amended our proposals to cater for them.
Investors They asked that the focus of the meetings become were pleased with the transparency, clarity and more forward-looking, with priority given to thought we put into the consultation process.
We decisions in the pipeline, unresolved issues facing the could not accommodate every suggestion raised, business and the execution of strategy.
In response, but all of those investors who engaged with us have our Executive Directors shortened their papers and agreed to support our proposals at the AGM.
You I extended Board meetings by 45 minutes to will find details of the proposals and their impact on facilitate broader discussion.
The result has been pay set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
an improvement in the quality and richness of I would like to thank the Remuneration Committee discussions.
More insights are offered by Nonmembers for their efforts in bringing these proposals executives, who feel better able to influence the to shareholders.
Management have found the new approach very helpful too.
I also continued our practice of not receiving PowerPoint presentations at meetings.
