Chairmans statement LondonMetric is very well positioned and investing in winning assets.
We remain alert, active and engaged but, above all, rational in stock selection and capitalallocation.
We have had a very good property With this backdrop, I am delighted that Investments in core marketin the UK over the last 12 months, the result of all our activity is that our EPRA sectors represent 90% driven by strong investment interest and earnings per share have increased by 57% ofour portfolio animproving economy.
Whilst some of the disposal activity has resulted in a loss of earnings, Our primary objectives at the start of the sale prices achieved have more than last year were to reposition and improve compensated, driving profit and delivering Our committed the portfolio, to build value enhancing strong total return.
Much of these sales and pipeline development opportunities and to increase proceeds are being reinvested in new developments our recurring income to cover, and allow opportunities, particularly through the nowexceeds us to progress, the dividend.
I ampleased development pipeline, which is progressing threemillion sq ft that our committed development extremely well, is adding value, and will programme now firmly underwrites our ultimately drive recurring earnings.
will see our projects for Primark at Islip and The strength of the property market has The Hut Group at Warrington complete and created disposal dilemmas, which in some become investment properties delivering instances has tempted us to sell our more a meaningful impact to our earnings.
institutional assets at very strong prices.
Looking forward, we continue to replenish Re-investing the sale proceeds has created our development pipeline and next year buying challenges.
As a result, we have had wehope to have made significant progress to seek a balance between growing our on our sites at Bedford and Stoke.
repetitive income and our desire to improve the portfolio and drive future total returns.
LondonMetric Property Plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Whilst the focus on adopting a total return We have also been working on the balance Distribution assets approach has tempered the growth in our sheet to improve our flexibility and to including development reported earnings in the very short term, increase our loan maturity.
We now have represent 47% of our it has had a very positive impact on our a significant element of our gearing based portfolio, up from 31% EPRA NAV progress, increasing by 16% to on unsecured facilities.
with a valuable reduction in interest cost and gives a longer loan maturity period.
The repositioning activity has balanced Above all, it allows much greater flexibility the portfolio to continue our focus on the and cost efficiency with no associated Our portfolio has winning sectors within retail, on retailer-led finance costs on the acquisition or sale of performed strongly and distribution, and convenience shopping, an asset.
The cost efficiency should not is well positioned to where people have been migrating in be underestimated as substantial finance benefit from changes increasing numbers.
These are sectors where charges are incurred when releasing assets in consumer shopping we understand the market exceptionally from secured facilities to benefit from the habits through our well and have the closest relationships with very strong sale prices.
I am very pleased strong occupier our occupiers.
These relationships allow us that under the unsecured arrangements relationships to create a real point of difference from our these costs will be avoided inthe future.
competitors, to deliver high occupancy and to achieve long-term security of Our dividend policy is clear.
We now have one of the highest for a covered and progressive dividend, occupancy rates and longest lease butour first priority is to improve the portfolio structures within our peer group.
quality to ensure that our dividend is not only progressive but it is also secure.
The large Our focus on these specialist areas and our number of sales and recycling into high customer relationships helps us to identify quality and higher yielding developments exciting opportunities through good have increased our contracted rental asset selection and create value through income, which will benefit our reported our investment and asset management income during 2015 16.
We intend to pay activity.
During the course of last year, asset the same final dividend as last year and we management initiatives generated an uplift remain confident of growing the dividend in our income of 2.6 million, grew our likethereafter.
We propose to share some of for-like rents by 2.9%, and still reduced our the exceptional gains we have secured voids even further to 0.3%.
on the redevelopment and sale of Carter Our contracted development activities, Lane earlier this year by recommending a both directly and where we are forward special dividend of 2p per share to be paid funding, are substantially pre-let, on time in July 2015. and on budget to deliver attractive returns, I believe LondonMetric is very well and meet our responsible business aims.
We are doing the right things.
The short development cycle makes these We are investing in winning assets and assets deferred investments, delivering strengthening our customer relationships.
recurring earnings from buildings when We continue to be highly cost conscious they are completed.
We are developing and we are well financed.
We have a terrific 2.0 million sq ft of new space in a number of tenant line up let on long leases with almost different locations.
no voids, and an exceptional management You have seen the balance of the portfolio team who are delivering.
We remain alert, changing between retail and distribution engaged and focused on keeping the over the past 12 months, to the point portfolio fit for the future.
where distribution including distribution developments is now our single biggest investment sector.
Including assets under development, we now have 21 distribution centres let to quality occupiers and we aim to continue to increase our exposure to Patrick Vaughan Chairman the growing retailer-led distribution market where we can work with our customers for 2 June 2015 mutual benefit.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 11
