Governance Chairmans statement As investments have tended to be opportunistic and time sensitive due to market competition, procedures have had to be robust to ensure that the highest levels of corporate governance have been upheld.
The 2015 financial year has been a challenging The Nominations Committee was further tasked time for the Board due to the strength of the to find a replacement Chief Financial Officer, market which has generated an extremely following the announcement that Andrew competitive environment for asset acquisition.
Rowell, who had been instrumental in the growth of the Group, was to leave after nine years.
Throughout the year the Board has considered Donald Grant was appointed in August from a strong pipeline of investment opportunities fellow FTSE 250 constituent Capital & Counties in both the UK and Germany.
Directors have Properties PLC and, having come from a strong debated and explored new and alternative real estate background and having had a long real estate investments extensively in order career within the financial industry in global to deliver income growth within acceptable organisations, brought with him a wealth of levels of risk exposure, whilst maintaining a knowledge andexperience.
sensible approach to ensure that the Companys properties and debt will be sustainable through As the size and complexity of the business the economic cycle.
The Board has also taken has grown the Audit and Risk Committee has advantage of the strong market to dispose of scrutinised internal controls and recommended mature assets and recycle capital to improve the that further resources be employed to quality of our portfolio.
ensure that the integrity of internal controls is maintained.
A new real estate and property Redefine International has been fortunate to management system is in the process of have the beneficial relationship and resources being installed and additional staff have of the Companys major Shareholder, Redefine We wish to thank beenappointed.
Properties, to support investments such as the German retail portfolio acquired in January.
Following the inclusion of the Company in our Shareholders the FTSE 250 Index in May 2014 and the As investments have tended to be opportunistic for providing such organisations growth, the Remuneration and time sensitive due to market competition, Committee has been keen to ensure that procedures have had to be robust to ensure strong support remuneration packages remain competitive that the highest levels of corporate governance to retain current, and to attract new directors throughout the year.
have been upheld in helping to deliver the to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee strategy, ensure acceptable risk levels have consulted with Towers Watson to ensure been maintained and that all ventures with our the policy remained relevant, and has made Greg Clarke major Shareholder have had sufficient oversight recommendations, but no material changes Chairman of the Board by independentdirectors.
have been proposed to the remuneration policy, which was approved by Shareholders at the Board Committees lastAGM.
The Nominations Committee has continued to focus on the composition of the Board, to For the next financial year the Company will improve the balance of independence and be reporting against the revised UK Corporate consider the skills matrix to ensure there is Governance Code published by the Financial sufficient knowledge and experience to fully Reporting Council in September 2014.
Each of assess investment opportunities as they arise.
the Committees has reviewed the Code and will With the expansion of our European portfolio, be taking appropriate action to address the new new independent directors were sought who requirements.
had extensive knowledge of the German market, resulting in the appointment of Robert Orr and Elisabeth Stheeman in April.
Elisabeth Stheeman has since left the Board, due to the emergence of a potential conflict of interest, and the search for her replacement is currently inprogress.
44 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information iv terminates his appointment on three Investor relations Corporate governance statement months notice.
It should be noted that The Company has endeavoured to report events Compliance with the UK Corporate the reappointment of any independent to Shareholders frequently and transparently Governance Code 2012 the Code Nonexecutive Director who has served more through news releases, roadshows or via our Redefine International is a UKREIT with a than six years will be subject to a rigorous newly relaunched website.
A new Head of premium listing on the Main Market of the LSE review when being considered for reelection.
Investor Relations has recently been appointed and a secondary listing on the Real Estate to further enhance communications.
Real Estate Holding and Development sector of Compliance with the Listing Rules the Main Board of the JSE.
The Company was We wish to thank our Shareholders for providing The transfer of Redefine International incorporated in the Isle of Man with registered such strong support throughout the year for to a Chapter 6 Company was approved number 111198C in 2004 and was reregistered various transactions, including the capital raise by Shareholders at the AGM held on under the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 in February 2015, the two scrip dividends, 29January2015 and took effect on in December 2013, with registered number and for their overwhelming vote in favour at 27February2015.
the EGM, held in September 2015, of the As a Chapter 6 Company with a controlling AUK portfolio acquisition, which will prove Further to the secondary listing of the Company shareholder, Redefine International has transformational for the Company.
in South Africa on 28 October 2013, the JSE complied with LR 9.8.
4 R 14 : accepted that Redefine International will We hope this support will continue and 1.
The Company entered into a relationship primarily comply with the Code as issued by the Shareholders will back a possible capital raise Agreement with Redefine Properties on Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 in the new year to fund Tranche 2 of the AUK 17November 2014 the Agreement and the as opposed to the provisions of the third King portfolio acquisition.
The first Tranche of the Board confirms that during the period under Report on Governance for South Africa 2009.
AUK portfolio was acquired in October 2015 review: The Company has substantially complied with through a combination of cash and bank debt.
the Code requirements for the reporting period a. the Company has complied with the Thesecond Tranche is to be acquired on or ended 31 August 2015 and up to the date of this independence provisions included in the around 1 March2016, funded by bank debt document.
The only areas of noncompliance Agreement: and a possible capital raise if there is deemed are as follows: to be sufficient shareholder support and market b. as far as the Company is aware, conditions are favourable.
RedefineProperties and its associates a Code B.
1.2. half of the Board should have complied with theindependence comprise independent Nonexecutive To enable the Company to raise cash through provisions included inthe Agreement: and Directors.
the issue of equity, Redefine International c. the election and reelection of will seek approval at the AGM to increase its Explanation: the composition of the independent Directors at the AGM to authorised share capital from 1.8 billion to Board is currently being addressed be held on 26 January 2016 will be 3billion ordinary shares of 8 pence each.
Issued by the Nominations Committee and a conducted in accordance with the election share capital currently stands at c. 1.5 billion recruitment agency has been appointed in provisions of LR 9.2.
2F R ordinary shares of 8 pence each.
order to assist with the search for a new and approved by: independent director.
To ensure there is Full details of the Board and the Companys enough independent oversight of related i. the Shareholders of the Company: and corporate governance processes are provided in party transactions, a committee comprising ii.
the independent Shareholders of the the following pages.
solely of independent directors has been Company: and All Directors will be in attendance at the AGM to established post year end to review such 2.
No independent Director has declined to be held on 26 January 2016 and will be available matters before deciding whether the support the statements in 1 above.
to answer any questions Shareholders may have transaction can progress to the Board regarding the operation of their company.
Compliance with the Disclosure b Code B.
2.3: Nonexecutive Directors should and Transparency Rules Greg Clarke be appointed for a specified term.
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of Chairman of the Board the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are Explanation: Directors are appointed for a contained in this governance report, except term which expires when either the Director those required under DTR 7.2.
6 which are i is not reappointed following retirement: contained in the Directors report.
ii is removed or vacates office: iii resigns or does not offer himself for reelection: or Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 45
