Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans Statement Strong performance across the business We broadened our footprint during the year, Dividend through the acquisition of leading Italian logistics The Board has assessed the results for 2015 and developer, Vailog, which will enable us to build a the outlook for earnings.
It has concluded that scale position in Northern Italy, one of our target it is appropriate to recommend an increase in markets, over the next few years.
the final dividend per share of 0.4 pence to 10.6 pence 2014: 10.2pence which will be paid Operationally, it has been a strong year too.
The Board We delivered like-for-like rental growth of has decided to retain a scrip dividend option, 4.2per cent and the portfolio occupancy allowing shareholders to choose whether to improved further with a vacancy rate of 4.8 per receive the dividend in cash or new shares.
We have maintained our focus on keeping The total dividend for the year will, therefore, costs under control, reducing net interest and be 15.6 pence, a rise of 3.3 per cent on 2014 operating costs.
The combination of these, along 15.1pence.
There are more details on page 30 with a strong contribution from developments, and 110 of this Report.
translated into adjusted earnings growth of 7.0per cent to 18.4 pence per share.
Ian Coull The SEGRO European Logistics Partnership In January 2016, Ian Coull, who was Chief joint venture SELP was an important element We have delivered another year Executive of SEGRO from 2003 to 2011, died of the repositioning strategy and now contains of strong operating and portfolio after a short illness.
Ian was a larger than life over 2 billion of big box logistics assets, from character, respected throughout the property performance.
Our focused business 1 billion at inception two years ago.
He started the process of repositioning also increased our exposure to UK big box model, combined with investment SEGROs business to focus on its core activities, logistics warehouses through both development in our portfolio and our people, and guided the Company through the financial and innovative asset swaps.
The combination of crisis in 2008.
Under his leadership, the sale of have positioned SEGRO to take pan-European big box and urban light industrial the US business and the acquisition of Brixton warehouses in a single company make SEGRO advantage of growth opportunities were two transactions which helped to transform aunique proposition in the listed market.
He will be greatly missed by Looking ahead, there are few expectations of allwhoknew him.
significant interest rate increases in either the The investment market for industrial and logistics UK or in the Eurozone, meaning that yields assets continued to strengthen during 2015 Board Changes on quality warehouse assets should continue which was the main driver of the 11.1 per cent After almost ten years at SEGRO, I informed to appear attractive to investors, although we increase in the value of our portfolio during the Board in July that I wished to retire at this expect the pace of yield compression, and the year.
therefore capital growth, to slow.
The structural This favourable market environment provided drivers of occupier demand for modern, wellI am delighted that Gerald Corbett will join an opportunity to dispose of further assets no located warehouse space also remain favourable: the Board in March and will succeed me longer core to our strategy, including a portfolio the growth of e-commerce and convenience as Chairman immediately after the AGM.
of offices on the Bath Road in Slough which was retailing continues to encourage retailers Gerald has had a successful career in a variety sold in January 2016 and was the final significant to restructure and modernise their supply of different industries, the breadth of which will office asset in our ownership.
chains, while a gradually improving economic both complement and add to the wealth of environment in all our major markets should As asset prices have increased, fewer acquisition experience and expertise on the Board.
support growth across the many sectors in opportunities were identified which met our The SEGRO I leave is a stronger, more which our customers operate.
However, we have still strategically focused company than the Slough managed to achieve a number of off-market The Board is grateful to all our employees Estates Group I joined in 2006, which is a purchases at attractive prices, adding to our big for their hard work in delivering these results testament to the dedication and efforts of its box logistics warehouse portfolio.
A greater part and for the continued support of the Groups employees and the management team led by of our investment activity has been focused on customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
I wish them, and our shareholders our development programme and in generating and other stakeholders, well for the future.
new development opportunities for the future through the replenishment of our land bank.
Nigel Rich CBE Chairman 03 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
