SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 005 Chairmans statement I am pleased Dividends to report another pence per share year of strong performance 21.9% Our long-term strategy of investment in the heart of Londons West End continues to deliver increasing 8.69 shareholder value and dividends, underpinned by sustained demand and growth in actual and EPRA NAV per share prospective rental income.
1 Across our fourteen acres of ownership, relentless activity, which includes asset management, schemes and acquisitions, is key to our continuing success.
10.7% We focus on retail, restaurants and leisure in iconic West End locations.
Businesses seeking space value our strategy of fostering constantly-evolving destinations, which draw many millions of people throughout the year.
36.1m Our approach creates prosperous areas for our tenants and, in EPRA earnings doing so, establishes the demand that supports long-term growth in our income and the value of our portfolio.
EPRA EPS Strong NAV growth 5.0% pence per share EPRA net asset value per share grew by 1.56 to 8.69 at the year end, primarily driven by strong valuation growth in our portfolio.
This represents a NAV return, after adding back dividends, of 23.8%.
13.75p 2 The valuation of our portfolio rose by 466.6 million to 3.1 billion, Dividends per share an 18% like-for-like increase over the year.
This increase is attributable to a combination of: Continuing strong occupier demand, and limited availability of space, which, together, are driving sustained growth in actual and potential rental income: The improvements we make to our buildings to provide better space and enhance their income-generation prospects: and The considerable investment demand for properties in our prosperous and resilient locations, which exceeds the availability of assets to buy.
2 The portfolio reversionary potential, estimated by our valuers, stands at 25.2 million, 24.6% above current rents.
We are confident that we shall continue our long record of converting this potential into cash flow, whilst further growing rental values.
1 Wholly-owned portfolio 2 Including our 50% share of property owned in joint venture 006 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Importantly, DTZ, independent valuers of our wholly-owned We continue to identify and advance further asset management portfolio, continue to advise the Board that, in their view, some opportunities across our portfolio.
In particular, we are making prospective purchasers may recognise the compelling opportunity, good progress with three important schemes which we shall be which the acquisition of the portfolio would provide, to own, in a starting during 2016: single transaction, a substantial number of predominantly retail and In Chinatown, we have secured planning consent for a major restaurant properties in adjacent, or adjoining, locations in Londons reconfiguration of 45,500 sq.
ft. of retail and restaurant space West End.
Consequently, they may consider a combination of fronting Charing Cross Road and Newport Court.
We shall start some, or all, parts of the portfolio to have a greater value than our works early in 2016. currently reflected in their valuation, which has been prepared in In Carnaby, we have submitted a planning application for the accordance with RICS guidelines.
refurbishment and extension of 57 Broadwick Street, which will provide 33,000 sq.
ft. of retail, restaurant, office and Increased EPRA earnings and dividends residential accommodation.
Subject to receiving consent, EPRA earnings increased by 10.7% to 36.1 million 2014: 32.6 we expect the scheme to be underway by mid-2016.
million, largely driven by like-for-like growth in rental income of In Seven Dials, in early 2016, we shall commence a scheme to 5.5%.
With sustained strong demand across all our locations and materially alter Thomas Neals Warehouse to provide for all uses, we are achieving rents on leasing transactions and 21,000 sq.
ft. of reconfigured space suitable for retailers rent reviews, on average, 11.2% above ERVs twelve months earlier.
seeking a flagship presence in this popular location.
As well as crystallising and exceeding the portfolio reversion previously reported, these transactions create new rental tones The availability of properties to acquire, which meet our strict which benefit our adjoining, or nearby, ownerships.
investment criteria, continues to be limited.
Existing owners remain reluctant to relinquish valuable investments which offer Your Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of 6.925p, both security and good growth prospects.
Inevitably, the timing bringing the total dividends for the year to 13.75p, an increase of of acquisitions is always unpredictable.
The total distribution in respect of the year will amount to 38.3 million 2014: 36.5 million.
In the first half, we acquired seven properties at a cost of 25.8m.
Although we made no purchases in the second half, Asset management and investment in our since the year end, we have secured acquisitions totalling portfolio 22.1 million.
In each acquisition we have identified potential for asset management initiatives which should deliver good rental It has been another busy year of asset management activity and and capital growth in the medium-term, and which will benefit investment across our portfolio.
During the year, we completed 27.3 million of leasing and rent review transactions, equivalent to around 23% of total ERV.
Adding to our long-term financial resources We have worked on a wide variety of refurbishment schemes, Long-term funding is a natural fit with our business model and extending to 181,000 sq.
This portfolio of good quality assets which, with our management, included the completion of our major scheme in Carnaby, deliver secure and growing income streams.
fronting Fouberts Place and Kingly Street.
Since the beginning of 2015, we have completed the refinancing of Capital expenditure for the year amounted to 24.7 million.
This our remaining debt facilities, which were due to expire in 2016, continues to be modest in relation to the value of our portfolio, as securing 250 million of long-term loans at an average rate of we provide retail, restaurant and leisure space in shell form, and 3.51%.
The refinancing provided us with additional resources of have limited exposure to the obsolescence inherent in offices.
In 96.6 million, of which 28.1 million was used to terminate all our schemes, we are mindful of the need to ensure our 70 million of long-dated interest rate swaps.
generally older building stock continues to meet, or exceed, the minimum standards of environmental performance required by law and expected by our occupiers.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED 007 Corporate Governance Outlook We are committed to the principles of good corporate Londons global status continues to attract domestic and international governance and responsibility throughout our business.
businesses and visitors in unrivalled numbers.
The city is currently experiencing a period of exceptional investment and growth.
 LLP, and their predecessor firms, have With forecasts pointing to a rapidly increasing population, more been our auditors since the company was founded in 1986.
In people and businesses are being drawn to its dynamic economy, light of new regulations regarding the rotation of auditors, and, in wide variety of attractions and diverse, cosmopolitan atmosphere.
line with emerging best practice, we decided to tender the audit during the year.
The completion of Crossrail in 2018, with its two West End transport hubs at Tottenham Court Road and Bond Street, will Following this tender process,  LLP will bring much-needed additional transport capacity to the London resign as auditors at the completion of this years audit and Ernst network.
Importantly for us, accessibility to the West End will be & Young LLP will be appointed.
The Board is recommending that materially improved and footfall patterns will change, which will Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor from the date of benefit our holdings, all of which are a short walk from these new the Annual General Meeting in February.
We invest in predominantly retail, restaurant and leisure locations Our team and the Board and buildings in the core West End, where these uses have a long Unusually for a business of our size, we operate with a staff of just history of sustained demand, resulting in occupancy levels and 25.
Their experience, knowledge and commitment are key to the rental growth which typically are unaffected by wider cyclical continuing success of the Groups long-term strategy and the trends.
With the factors supporting the outlook and long-term evolution of its implementation across our growing portfolio.
success of the West End mirroring those of the entire city, they Their innovative thinking ensures we adapt and respond to an also underpin the unique qualities and prospects of our ever-changing environment.
Importantly, we benefit from the experience and advice from a Against this background, and with our experience and forensic wide range of professional advisors, who share our enthusiasm for, knowledge of the West End, we expect to continue to deliver and commitment to, our portfolio, and the areas in which we invest.
long-term growth in shareholder value and income.
We are fortunate that we are able to call on the advice and wider experience of five Non-Executive Directors, who understand our Jonathan Lane OBE business, how we operate, and the challenges that may lie ahead.
Chairman After 29 years at the Company, for many of which as Chief 24 November 2015 Executive, I have asked the Nomination Committee, led by our Senior Independent Director, Jill Little, to undertake a process to identify my successor as Non-Executive Chairman.
