CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Financial performance I am pleased to report a year of progress for the company, with record sales and free cash flow.
The company was founded in 1979 and this is the 32nd year since incorporation in 1983.
The table below outlines some key aspects of our performance during that period.
Since our flotation in 1992, earnings per share before exceptional items have grown by an average of 15.0% per annum and free cash flow per share by an average of 17.7%.
The weighted average number of shares, EPS and free cash flow per 1.
Where appropriate, the earnings per share EPS, as disclosed in the share include those shares held in trust for employee share schemes.
statutory accounts, have been recalculated to take account of share splits, 4.
Before 2005, the accounts were prepared under UKGAAP.
All accounts the issue of new shares and capitalisation issues.
from 2005 to date have been prepared under IFRS.
Free cash flow per share excludes dividends paid which were included in the free cash flow calculations in the annual report and accounts for the years 19952000.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Like-for-like sales increased by 3.3% 2014: 5.5%, of share purchases for employees 2014: 7.3m and with total sales of 1,513.9m, an increase of 7.4% payments of tax and interest, increased by 16.9m 2014: 10.0%.
Like-for-like bar sales increased to 109.8m 2014: 92.9m.
2014: 12.0% and slot fruit machine sales Free cash flow per share was 89.8p 2014: 74.1p.
Dividends and return of capital Operating profit before exceptional items decreased The board proposes, subject to shareholders by 3.8% to 112.5m 2014: 117.0m.
The approval, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share operating margin, before exceptional items, 2014: 8.0p per share, on 26 November 2015, decreased to 7.4% 2014: 8.3%, mainly as a result to those shareholders on the register on of a lower gross margin and increases in staff costs, 23 October 2015, giving a total dividend for the utilities and depreciation.
year of 12.0p per share 2014: 12.0p per share.
The dividend is covered 3.1 times 2014: 2.8 times.
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased In view of high levels of capital expenditure in by 2.0% to 77.8m 2014: 79.4m.
Earnings per recent years and the potential for advantageous share including shares held in trust by the investments in the future, the board has decided employee share scheme, before exceptional items, to maintain the dividend at its current level for were 47.0p 2014: 47.0p.
Net interest was covered 3.3 times by operating During the year, 3,618,827 shares representing profit before exceptional items 2014: 3.2 times.
2.9% of the issued share capital were purchased Total capital investment was 173.3m in the period by the company for cancellation, at a total cost of 2014: 177.5m, with 106.3m invested in new 26.9m, including stamp duty, representing an pubs and extensions to existing pubs 2014: 97.7m.
average cost per share of 743p.
In addition, there was expenditure of 44.8m on existing pubs and IT infrastructure 2014: 56.2m Financing and 21.6m on freehold reversions, where As at 26 July 2015, the companys total net debt, Wetherspoon was already a tenant, and investment including bank borrowings and finance leases, but properties 2014: 23.6m.
excluding derivatives, was 601.1m 2014: 556.6m, an increase of 44.5m.
Factors which have led to the Exceptional items totalled 12.6m 2014: 17.7m.
increase in debt are investment in new pubs and An exceptional charge of 5.2m resulted from extensions of 106.3m, investment in existing pubs a change in our accounting policy regarding of 44.8m, the acquisition of freehold reversions of non-consumable inventories, including crockery, 21.6m, share buybacks of 12.7m and dividend glassware and cutlery.
These items were previously payments of 14.6m.
Year-end net-debt-to-EBITDA regarded as part of our year end stock-in-hand: we was 3.37 times 2014: 3.21 times.
have now decided to expense these when received by the pubs.
An impairment charge of 11.2m was As at 26 July 2015, the company had 240.9m realised in respect of underperforming pubs and a 2014: 138.1m of unutilised banking facilities charge of 1.9m was incurred in relation to and cash balances, with total facilities of 840.0m onerous leases.
The companys existing a restructuring of our head office.
The total cash interest-rate swap arrangements remain in place.
effect of these exceptional items was 0.8m.
These exceptional items led to an exceptional tax Corporation tax deduction of 1.6m.
The overall tax charge including deferred tax on pre-exceptional items is 26.1% 2014: 25.8%.
We have reviewed the treatment of deferred tax on The UK standard average tax rate for the period rolled-over capital gains and found that we had was 20.7% 2014: 22.3%.
The difference between overestimated the tax liability.
This has resulted in a the rate of 26.1% and the standard average rate of deferred tax credit of 4.8m.
UK corporation tax of 20.7% is 5.4% 2014: 3.5% which is due primarily to the level of non-qualifying Free cash flow, after capital investment of 44.8m depreciation depreciation does not qualify for on existing pubs 2014: 56.2m, 6.8m in respect tax relief.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The pre-exceptional current tax rate, which Trade support for VAT equality excludes deferred tax, has increased by 6.3% to Jacques Borel, who has campaigned successfully 27.7% 2014: 21.4%, owing mainly to a for lower VAT for bars and restaurants in many reduced amount of expenditure which qualifies other countries, has also been campaigning in this for capital allowances.
A large number of companies have supported his campaign, including Heineken, Pizza The living wage Hut, Fullers and St Austell, among others.
It is Wetherspoon increased the minimum hourly rate disappointing to note that some of the biggest for staff by 5% in October 2014 and by a further pub companies, including Enterprise Inns, Mitchells 8% at the end of July 2015.
Both decisions were and Butlers, Greene King and Marstons have failed taken without the knowledge that the to support Jacques campaign and have not government was about to announce a new campaigned themselves in any meaningful way for minimum wage, now called the living wage.
VAT equality between pubs and supermarkets.
In addition, as Wetherspoon shareholders are Pubs have lost 50% of their beer sales to aware, we pay about 40% of our profits supermarkets in the last 35 years including many 30.7m in the year under review as a bonus pubs owned by these companies, as VAT has or free shares, over 80% of which is paid to climbed from 8% to 20%.
people who work in our pubs.
Of equal or greater concern to many thousands of We believe there to be two main economic issues individual publicans in Britain is that the main trade with regard to the new living minimum wage.
newspaper, the Publican Morning Advertiser the The first is that pub wages are about 30% of sales.
PMA has itself failed to support the VAT campaign Therefore a pint purchased in a pub at the national in recent years, even though authoritative market average price of about 3.50 will represent about research, as well as common sense, overwhelmingly 85 pence in respect of wages.
In contrast, a pint indicates that publicans regard VAT equality as bought in a supermarket, at an estimated price of critical.
In my view, the PMA, one of Britains oldest 1, will only represent about 10 pence of newspapers, has entirely lost its legitimacy as a supermarket wages, since their wage percentage mouthpiece for individual licensees.
and selling prices are both far lower than those of pubs.
By pushing up the cost of wages by a large Contribution to the economy factor, the government is inevitably putting financial As we have previously stated, we believe that pressure on pubs, many of which have already pubs are taxed excessively and that the closed.
This financial pressure will be felt most government would create more jobs and receive strongly in areas which are less affluent, since the higher levels of overall revenue, if it were to create price differential in those areas between pubs and tax equality among supermarkets, pubs and supermarkets is far more important to customers.
Supermarkets pay virtually no VAT in It is certain that high streets in less affluent areas, respect of food sales, whereas pubs pay 20% which already suffer from serious problems of and this disparity enables supermarkets to empty shops and dereliction, will suffer further if subsidise their alcoholic drinks sales to the pubs and other labour-intensive businesses close.
detriment of pubs and restaurants.
The second issue is that investment is bound to Wetherspoon is happy to pay its share of tax and, be affected if businesses feel that important issues, in this respect, is a major contributor to the such as the minimum wage, are to be decided by economy.
In the year under review, we paid total one or two senior politicians on a whim, for taxes of 632.4m, an increase of 32.2m, political reasons, rather than being subject to compared with the previous year, which equates to careful consideration by organisations such as approximately 41.8% of our sales.
This equates to an average payment per pub of 673,000 per annum or 12,900 per week.
4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Having presented our views in previous annual 2015 2014 reports and press articles, without receiving any m m dissent from any shareholders or their representatives, I believe the following propositions VAT 294.4 275.1 represent the views of sensible shareholders: Alcohol duty 161.4 157.0 PAYE and NIC 84.8 78.4 n Modern annual reports are far too long and are Business rates 48.7 44.9 often almost unreadable.
They are full of semiCorporation tax 15.3 18.1 literate business jargon, including accounting Corporation tax credit 2.0 jargon, and are cluttered with badly written and Machine duty 11.2 11.3 incomprehensible governance reports.
Climate change levies 6.4 6.3 n The limitations of corporate governance systems Carbon tax 3.7 2.7 should be recognised.
Common sense, Fuel duty 2.9 2.1 management skills and business savvy are more Landfill tax 2.2 1.5 important to commercial success than board Stamp duty 1.8 2.1 structures.
All the major banks and many Premise licence 0.8 0.7 supermarket and pub companies have recently TV licences 0.8 suffered colossal business and financial problems, Total tax 632.4 600.2 in spite of, or perhaps because of, their adherence Tax per pub 000 673 662 to governance guidelines.
Tax as % of sales 41.8% 42.6% n There should be an approximately equal balance Pre-exceptional profit after tax 57.5 58.9 between executives and non-executives.
A majority Profit after tax as % of sales 3.8% 4.2% of executives is not necessarily harmful, provided non-executives are able to make their voices heard.
n It is often better if a chairman has previously Corporate governance been the chief executive of the company.
This In last years statement, the view was advanced that encourages chief executives, who may wish to many aspects of current corporate governance become chairmen in the future, to take a long-term advice, as laid out in the Combined Code, were view, avoiding problems of profit-maximisation deeply flawed.
The statement pointed out that policies in the years running up to the departure of compliant pub companies had often fared a chief executive.
disastrously in comparison with non-compliant ones.
n A maximum tenure of 9 years for non-executive In particular, pub companies in which the CEO directors is not advisable, since inexperienced became chairman and which had a majority of boards, unfamiliar with the effects of the last executivesusually with previous experience of recession on their companies, are likely to reduce the pub trade, avoided making catastrophic errors to financial stability.
which compliant companies seem prone.
It was n An excessive focus on achieving financial or other also pointed out that setting targets for bonuses targets for executives can be counter-productive.
had also often backfired, encouraging companies to Theres no evidence that the type of targets take reckless decisions in order to enhance earnings.
preferred by corporate governance guidelines actually work and there is considerable evidence Last years statement was particularly critical of the that attempting to reach ambitious financial targets Code itself, which placed a huge emphasis on is harmful.
meetings between directors and shareholders and n It is far more important for directors to take placed almost no emphasis on directors taking account of the views of employees and customers account of the views of customers and employees than of the views of institutional shareholders.
which are far more important, in practice, to the Shareholders should be listened to with respect, but future well-being of any company.
caution should be exercised in implementing the views of short-term shareholders.
It should also be It was pointed out that the average institutional understood that modern institutional shareholders shareholder turns over his portfolio twice annually, may have a serious conflict of interest, as they are so it would be absurd for directors to take account often concerned with their own quarterly portfolio of the views of Mr Market in the words of performance, whereas corporate health often requires Benjamin Graham, certainly in regard to short-term objectives which lie 5, 10 or 20 years in the future.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Board of directors Property Further to the 18 December 2014 statement that The company opened 30 pubs during the year, with Ben Whitley had been appointed interim finance 6 pubs sold or closed, resulting in a total estate of director, the board is pleased to announce today 951 pubs at the financial year end.
The average that Ben is being appointed to the board with development cost for a new pub excluding the effect from the forthcoming AGM.
cost of freeholds was 2.1m, compared with 1.6m a year ago: four of the pubs included hotel Further progress accommodation and the average size was around As in previous years, the company has tried to 20% bigger than the previous year, factors that improve as many areas of the business as possible.
contributed to increases in costs.
The full-year For example, our food hygiene ratings are at record depreciation charge was 66.7m 2014: 58.1m.
We have 858 pubs rated on the Food We currently intend to open about 15 to 20 pubs Standards Agencys website.
The average score is in the year ending July 2016.
4.93, with 94.1% of the pubs achieving a top rating of five stars and 5.1% receiving four stars.
Property litigation We believe this to be the highest average rating for We have previously referred to important property any substantial pub company.
In the separate litigation between Wetherspoon and a number of Scottish scheme, which records either a pass or a individuals and companies.
As a result of the fail, all of our 68 pubs have passed.
importance of this litigation and the large sums of money involved, we intend to reproduce this In the 2016 Good Beer Guide, a CAMRA information for the benefit of shareholders and the publication, 296 of our pubs have been public for the foreseeable future: recommended, more than any other pub company.
In addition, over 937 of our pubs are Cask Marque As reported at the interim results in March 2013, approved Cask Marque is a pub-industry scheme, Wetherspoon agreed on an out-of-court settlement run in conjunction with several brewers, which with developer Anthony Lyons, formerly of property checks and approves the quality of real ale in pubs.
leisure agent Davis Coffer Lyons, and has received We continue to source our traditional ales from a approximately 1.25m from Mr Lyons.
large number of microbreweries of varying sizes and believe that we are the biggest purchaser of The payment relates to litigation in which microbrewery beer in the UK.
Wetherspoon claimed that Mr Lyons had been an accessory to frauds committed by Wetherspoons We continue to run the worlds biggest real-ale former retained agent Van fide Berg and its directors festival, twice per annum, and have added a cider Christian Braun, George Aldridge and Richard festival in recent times, featuring a wide variety of Harvey.
Mr Lyons denied the claim and the suppliers from the UK, Europe and elsewhere in the litigation was contested.
Wetherspoon sells far more beers and ciders from craft and microbrewers throughout the year The claim related to properties in Portsmouth, than any other pub company.
The Portsmouth property was involved in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case itself.
We paid 30.7m in respect of bonuses and free In that case, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that Van shares to employees in the year, slightly more than fide Berg, but not Mr Lyons who was not a party to the previous year, of which 97.0% was paid to staff the case, fraudulently diverted the freehold from below board level and 81.5% was paid to staff Wetherspoon to Moorstown Properties Limited, a working in our pubs.
company owned by Simon Conway.
Moorstown leased the premises to Wetherspoon.
Wetherspoon In the field of charity, thanks to the work of our is still a leaseholder of this property a pub called dedicated pub and head-office teams, we continue The Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
to raise record amounts of money for CLIC Sargent, which supports young cancer patients and their The properties in Leytonstone and Newbury the families.
In the last year, we raised approximately other properties in the case against Mr Lyons were 1.7m, bringing the total raised to over 11.0m not pleaded in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case.
more than any other corporate partner has raised Leytonstone was leased to Wetherspoon and trades for this charity.
today as The Walnut Tree public house.
Newbury was leased to Pelican plc and became Caf Rouge.
6 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT As we have also reported, the company agreed I negotiated our first 20 or so pubs myself, dealing to settle its final claim in this series of cases and directly with the owners agents, before employing accepted 400,000 from property investor Christian Braun, of Van fide Berg & Co, in about Jason Harris, formerly of First London and now 1990.
Little did I realise that Braun was a double of First Urban Group.
Wetherspoon alleged that agent or mole, who was to burrow deep into our Harris was an accessory to frauds committed by organisation, undermining the very property Van fide Berg.
Harris contested the claim and has foundations that underpin any retailer.
Following a tip-off in 2005, we terminated VDBs Before the conclusion of the above cases, contract and undertook a review of all our 600 or Wetherspoon also agreed on a settlement with so property transactions, using a team of up to a Paul Ferrari of London estate agent Ferrari Dewe & dozen legal and paralegal staff.
We discovered Co, in respect of properties referred to as the about 50 back-to-back transactions in which Ferrari Five by Mr Justice Peter Smith.
freeholds, which were available to buy, had been diverted by VDB to third parties, who had acquired Further shareholder information about these cases them at the same time as JDW had taken a lease is available in a short article which I wrote for the the rent being set at a level which created an trade publication Propel, which is disclosed later in immediate uplift in the value of the reversion.
Proceedings were issued against VDB and its Current trading and outlook directors, Braun, George Aldridge and Richard Harvey, The biggest danger to the pub industry, as in respect of about a dozen of these transactions.
In a Wetherspoon has previously pointed out is the VAT 136-page judgment, Mr Justice Peter Smith found disparity between supermarkets and pubs.
that VDB had fraudulently diverted properties to In the six weeks to 6 September 2015, like-for-like number of third parties, but he made no findings sales increased by 1.4%, with total sales increasing against the third parties themselves.
Following Mr Justice Smiths judgment, JDW issued As previously stated on 15 July 2015, a number of proceedings against several third parties: Paul factors likely to influence our trading performance Ferrari of Brauns former employer Ferrari Dewe & this financial year are difficult to quantify at this Co: Anthony Lyons, formerly of Davis Coffer Lyons early stage.
Positive aspects include an increase in and Jason Harris, formerly of First London.
pub numbers, a better economy and slightly lower interest rates: less favourable aspects include Liability was denied by all.
The cases were heightened competition from supermarkets and contested and were settled out of court.
JDW restaurant groups and increased staff, repairs, bar received substantial payments in all three cases.
We continue to anticipate a trading performance similar to, or slightly above, that A number of the pleaded properties in the VDB achieved in the last financial year.
case, referred to by the judge as the Ferrari Five, involved Jersey companies with nominee owners Newspaper article that were connected to Ferrari.
Each of the Jersey companies had a different name and care was The newspaper article below first appeared in the taken to use different lawyers and nominees.
pub trade publication Propel and relates to the section on property litigation referred to above: Profits from the purchasing companies were usually channelled to a Jersey holding company called Wed 22nd May 2013 Propel Opinion Extra Gecko and money was then transferred as loans or fees to companies controlled by VDB directors.
Lessons in the property market by Tim Martin In my opinion, the Lyons case is the most interesting for the property market and for J D Wetherspoon has always been a buyer of prospective tenants and purchasers.
Our second, third and fourth pubs were his defence that he was acting in his capacity as an freehold and, by the time of our 1992 flotation, employee and in accordance with his duties to 20 of our 44 pubs were freehold.
Davis and Coffer now Davis Coffer Lyons.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Lyons case concerned properties in Portsmouth, therefore, liable to us.
The great risk that all agents Leytonstone and Newbury, two of which became and investors run, in these circumstances, is if the JDW pubs, with the third becoming a Caf Rouge.
retained agent, VDB in this instance, is itself be The Portsmouth property belonged to British Gas dishonest.
If so, this may open up the possibility of and Justice Smith found that VDB bid for the a claim by an aggrieved end user, such as freehold, unbeknown to JDW, and, once the bid Wetherspoon, that the introducing agent was accepted, agreed with Lyons for JDW to take a participated in the dishonesty of the retained agent.
lease and for the freehold to be acquired by Moorstown Properties, owned by a friend, and JDW has lost many tens of millions of pounds as a subsequently a colleague, of Lyons Simon result of the VDB frauds.
Rent reviews and yield Conway.
No findings were made against Lyons, or compression have exacerbated the damage over indeed Conway, in the VDB case, and neither the years.
person was a party to the case.
Our experience teaches a number of lessons.
First, Portsmouth was subsequently sold by Moorstown buyers and tenants should ask their agents to to Scottish American Investment Company, a few confirm in writing that they have no direct or months later, with the benefit of a lease to JDW for indirect interest in any property they are acquiring a substantial profit.
Illustrating the Byzantine and should ask their lawyers to take particular complexity of the transactions, Lyons defence interest if a freehold is changing hands at the same stated that shares in Moorstown were time as they are acquiring a lease, or indeed the transferred, before the sale was completed, to freehold.
Professionals and investors should also get Northcreek which, Companies House shows, was confirmation in writing from the end user in owned by Roger Myers, then chairman of Caf back-to-back deals that they have consented to the Rouge owner Pelican, and his family.
Take the retained agents word for it at your peril.
The Newbury property was acquired by Riverside Stores, a company connected to Conway, and was leased at around the same time to Caf Rouge.
Tim Martin is founder and chairman of Newbury was sold shortly after completion for a J D Wetherspoon substantial profit.
JDW did not allege, and is not alleging, that the Portsmouth and Newbury transactions are Tim Martin connected and is not alleging that Davis Coffer Chairman Lyons, Myers or Conway are dishonest, but it is a 10 September 2015 matter of public importance, as well as of importance to JDW and its shareholders, for there to be an explanation as to the circumstances in which Moorstown, a company which clearly benefited from the Portsmouth fraud by VDB, ended up belonging to the family of Myers.
A key legal and ethical question for the property market that emerges from these cases concerns the obligations of estate agents and investors, in circumstances in which a freehold property is first offered to a friend or colleague of an agent, who agrees to acquire it, and the property is then offered by the agent to a company like Wetherspoon on a back-to-back basis.
What are the obligations of the introducing agent?
In broad terms, the third parties in the Wetherspoon litigation argued that they owed no duties or obligations to Wetherspoon and were not, 8 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
