CHAIRMANS LETTER Setting Hammersons values and standards I believe that strong corporate governance, underpinned by a sound culture, is fundamental to our success and our ability to meet our business goals and generate value over the longer term.
David Tyler Chairman 68 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS LETTER FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Dear Shareholders, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Hammersons Corporate Governance Report which aims to provide an insight into how the Board spent its time during 2015.
As in previous years, details of how we discharged our governance duties and applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code are contained in a separate section from page 102.
We have recently seen a much greater recognition among the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW investor community of the importance of corporate culture in Our General Counsel and Company Secretary, Sarah Booth, how businesses manage risk and secure a strong performance.
In facilitated the 2015 Board effectiveness review.
In it, Directors part, this is being driven by the Financial Reporting Council which discussed various topics focused on themes drawn from the Code.
has a major initiative under way on this topic.
These included how the Board works together, influences Hammersons culture and values, sets the Companys strategic I believe that strong corporate governance, underpinned by a aims and assesses risk.
She reviewed the responses and discussed sound culture, is fundamental to our success and helps ensure we them with me before tabling a report and recommendations to the can meet our business goals and generate value over the longer Board.
Actions were agreed and incorporated where appropriate term.
Your Board plays a key role in shaping Hammersons culture into the 2016 Board work plan.
These included: both in the boardroom and across the wider organisation.
Further enhancements to our strategic planning process: During the year, the Board considered as part of the 2015 Board effectiveness review how effectively it sets the tone from the top.
Continued focus on the talent-development aspects of You can read more about this in the Boards roundtable discussion succession planning: on page 70.
The Board also had a number of opportunities during A presentation by external advisers to the Board on culture the year to engage with colleagues across the business, both and ethics: formally and informally.
These meetings gave Directors further An on-going programme of engagement and site visits: and insight into how Hammersons values are embedded in the business and you can read more about this on page 75.
Preparation of a list of discussion topics for Board dinners.
Progress on the actions arising from the 2014 Board effectiveness CHANGES TO THE BOARD review was also considered as part of the 2015 review.
Further Effective boards need directors who bring the right balance of details can be found in this report as set out below: skills, experience and knowledge, enhanced by a range of diverse Succession planning see Nomination Committee Report, backgrounds.
During the year, we welcomed two new Nonpage 79.
Executive Directors to the Board, Pierre Bouchut and Andrew Formica.
The work associated with making changes to the Board Improving the structure of the Board strategy day see page 76. and monitoring succession planning across the business were Further engagement with colleagues see page 76. important elements of the Nomination Committees activity The next Board effectiveness review will take place in 2016 and further details can be found on page 78. will be conducted by an external facilitator.
Jacques Espinasse will retire from the Board at the conclusion I would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues on the Board, of this years Annual General Meeting, after nine years of service the management team and all our colleagues in the Group for as a Non-Executive Director.
He has also been a member of the delivering yet another strong performance in 2015.
Audit Committee since 2007, and chaired that Committee since April 2014.
I would like to record my thanks to Jacques for the significant and valuable contribution he has made to the Board David Tyler and the Company.
Chairman COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Company complied in full with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014 which applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
