30 Meggitt PLC Report Accounts 2003 Directors Statement on Corporate Governance The Chairman also talks with and holds meetings on an informal basis Statement of Appliance of the Principles in the Combined Code with the other non executive directors without the executives present.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in During 2004 the Chairmans performance will be appraised by the Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 by complying with the non executive directors.
Code of Best Practice as reported in the Statement of Compliance on page 32.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out There were no circumstances arising during the year where it was below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Remuneration necessary to record unresolved concerns in the Boards minutes.
Although the revised Code does not apply until the 2004 reporting year, progress in complying with the provisions of the revised Code The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers insurance.
Directors The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities which will be recorded in writing and 1.
The Board agreed by the Board during 2004.
The Chairman was not independent as The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group and defined in revised Code Provision A.
3.1. on his appointment as he was is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its leadership.
It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place and reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is responsible for setting the The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring its Groups values and standards and for ensuring its obligations to effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to all shareholders, employees and others are met.
directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is The non executive directors play a full part by constructively challenging undertaken with the shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the and contributing to the development of strategy.
The performance of contribution of non executive directors and the relationship between management is monitored, as is the integrity of financial information and them and the executive directors.
effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems.
The non executive directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of 3.
Board Balance and Independence remuneration for the executive directors and have an important role in The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and non executive the appointment of new directors.
directors, is of a size and consists of skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Board meets regularly and receives reports from the Chief Executive on the Groups activities and from the Group Finance Director on financial Details of the non executive directors considered to be independent are performance and treasury matters.
Strategic issues and other items provided above.
For the period from 27 February, 2003 when Sir Colin including such matters as capital structure, financial reporting and Terry was appointed to 22 May 2003 when Sir Donald Spiers resigned controls are considered in line with a schedule of matters reserved for the Board consisted of five executive and five non executive directors of the decision of the Board.
If a decision is not reserved for the Board then whom four were considered to be independent.
From 22 May 2003 until authority lies, in accordance with an authorisation policy, with one of the 31 December 2003 there were three independent non executive directors Finance Committee of the Board, the Chief Executive, an executive director but on 1 January 2004 when Mr P J Hill was appointed this once again or the managing directors of the individual business units.
The Chairman is Mr M A Stacey and the Chief Executive is Mr T Twigger.
Over a period of time, in order to ensure an appropriate balance of skills is The senior independent non executive director is Sir Alan Cox.
present on the Board, it is the intention to move to the position where half the Board will consist of independent non executive directors.
The independent non executive directors are considered by the Board to be Sir Alan Cox, Mr D A Robins and Sir Colin Terry.
The senior independent non executive director is Sir Alan Cox.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal Committee membership, number of formal meetings held during 2003 channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
and attendance is shown in the following table: 4.
Appointments to the Board No.
of The Nominations Committee considers any new appointments to the Meetings No.
of whilst Meetings Board but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint is taken appointed Attended by the Board as a whole.
A majority of members are independent and the Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
The Committee will make its terms Audit of reference available once formally agreed by the Board during 2004.
Sir Alan Cox Chairman 3 3 For the two non executive director appointments made during the year, Mr D A Robins 3 3 an external search company provided the initial list of candidates.
03 2 2 The terms and conditions of appointment of non executive directors are Remuneration available for inspection.
03 4 4 Sir Alan Cox 4 4 No executive director has a non executive directorship or chairmanship Sir Donald Spiers Chairman to 22.5.
Mr M A Stacey 4 4 Sir Colin Terry from 27.2.
Information and Professional Development Nominations The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and Mr M A Stacey Chairman 2 2 of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Sir Alan Cox 2 2 Mr D A Robins 2 1 On joining the Board new directors receive an appropriate induction to Sir Donald Spiers until 22.5.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new Sir Colin Terry from 27.2.
03 1 1 non executive directors should they wish to do so.
Mr T Twigger 2 2 The full Board met on nine occasions and these meetings were attended by all directors except for Dr R W Greaves and Mr J J Stobie who were excused one meeting each.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 31 Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their C. Accountability and Audit knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to senior management, receiving reports on the business and visits to the Groups 1.
Resources are available to directors for developing and This report and accounts contains an explanation of the directors updating their knowledge and capabilities.
responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also report that The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all directors to take the business is a going concern.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary.
Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake 2.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The system is procedures are complied with and that there is a good information flow designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve within the Board.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against are a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board confirms full implementation of the guidance issued by Turnbull.
Performance Evaluation The Board will implement during 2004 an evaluation process of its own The process adopted by the Board for identifying, evaluating and managing performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
the significant risks faced by the Company is as follows: 1.
The Board receives regular reports at Board Meetings on the state of 7.
Re-Election the business from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual 2.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness general meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter of the internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings at intervals of no more than three years.
Non executive directors are it receives reports from the external auditors and the internal audit appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject department.
Internal audit visits to operating units are planned using to re-election and the provisions of the Companies Act relating to the a risk model.
This risk model is based on three areas of risk: business removal of a director.
risk, inherent risk and control risk.
The model produces a risk score for each operating unit, based on the above risk areas and incorporating ten Biographical and other relevant information on directors submitted separate risk indicators.
This exercise, completed annually in November for election or re-election will be provided in the notice of the Annual by means of an extensive internal audit questionnaire, produces a risk General Meeting.
league table, which is used to prioritise internal audit visits.
Other factors such as the length of time since last visit, management reviews and year B.
Directors Remuneration to date operating results are also taken into consideration to ensure a continuous assessment of internal risk.
On average, each operating unit 1.
The Level and Make-up of Remuneration currently receives an internal audit visit every two to three years.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving remuneration Following each internal audit visit, a detailed report is written which packages needed to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of includes all findings and recommendations.
These reports are reviewed the required quality.
A significant portion of an individual directors by senior management, both at head office and at the operating unit remuneration is performance related through a combination of cash concerned and recommendations are followed up to ensure that they bonus and share schemes.
Executive share options when granted are only have been implemented.
Annually a review of the risk environment is presented to the Board for their consideration along with the effectiveness of the system of internal The level of fees for non executive directors is set to reflect the time controls.
This review covers material controls, including financial, commitment and responsibilities of the role after consulting independent operational, compliance and risk management systems.
Non executive directors are not entitled to receive 4.
The Companys Operations Executive has a regular programme for share options.
reviewing various types of risk identified in the businesses and a summary of the key risks is presented to the Board every six months.
None of the executive directors serves as a non executive director for 5.
On an annual basis, each business managing director provides written another company.
confirmation that the business for which he is responsible has been in compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to offer new executive 6.
Annually, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage in place directors contracts requiring one years notice from the Company.
Should and the risks which remain uninsured.
the Company terminate the contracts in breach of the contract terms then damages would be due which are equivalent to remuneration for the The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under review unexpired period of notice less 5%.
and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
Procedure The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of four members, Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 98% of operating three of whom are considered to be independent.
The Committees Terms profit before goodwill amortisation in 2003. of Reference are available.
During 2003 Monks Partnership and Mercer Human Resource Consulting were appointed to benchmark senior 3.
Audit Committee and Auditors executives salaries, the results of which were taken into account when The Board has appointed an Audit Committee consisting of three deciding upon salaries to be effective from 1 January 2004.
Monks is part of independent non executive directors under the Chairmanship of Sir Alan  LLP who were appointed the Companys auditors Cox.
The Board is satisfied that amongst the Committees members there during the year and Mercers are the actuaries and administrators for the UK is recent and relevant financial experience.
Monks surveys have been used over the last few years for the benchmarking of UK salaries.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available.
During 2003 the Committee met on three occasions.
On two of these occasions The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration the external auditors attended to discuss the scope and the results of packages, including pension arrangements, for all executive directors and the annual audit in detail along with any other items which the auditors senior management.
The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for or the non executive directors wished to discuss.
The Audit Committee setting the fees of the non executive directors, including the Chairman.
No also reviewed the internal control environment of the Group and received director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
reports from Internal Audit as described above.
32 Meggitt PLC Report Accounts 2003 Directors Statement on Corporate Governance The Company places great importance on the independence of its Statement of Compliance with the auditors and, together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity Provisions of the Combined Code is not compromised.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section I of the 1998 The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees to be paid to external Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services auditors in respect of their services as auditors.
The Companys general Authority with the following exceptions: policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: a B1.6 and Schedule A annual bonuses for executive directors are audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to pensionable in order to be consistent with other senior employees.
undertake those services which they are required to, and most suited to, It should be noted that, unlike for uncapped senior employees, perform eg bank covenant letters.
The Audit Committee is required to contributions are not made in respect of the value of other taxable approve any fees to the external auditors in excess of 100,000. benefits.
taxation: the Companys principal tax advisers are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
b B2.2 the Remuneration Committee consists of three independent non consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external auditors executive directors and one non executive director, Mr M A Stacey, who for general consulting work where this could impair their independence is not considered to be independent.
The Board believes it is important or objectivity.
that Mr Stacey should be a member of the Committee in his capacity as Chairman of the Company and because of the experience he has gained It is the Boards intention that arrangements will be put in place during the as a result of his directorships of other companies.
year to enable employees to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
Future Developments During 2003 the Board discussed the recommendations of the Higgs and During the year the Board decided following a competitive tender to appoint Smith reviews and the requirements of the revised Code and has made  LLP as its external auditors in place of Deloitte & arrangements for implementation as explained above.
This decision was taken with the full support and agreement of the members of the Audit Committee.
The Board has in its Statement of Appliance of the Principles in the Combined Code endeavoured to report progress in complying with the revised Code although it is not required to provide a Statement of D. Relations with Shareholders Compliance with the Provisions of the revised Code until next year.
Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Going Concern The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable investors and analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
This encompasses such operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the issues as strategy, performance and policy.
directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This statement also constitutes part of the The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive.
Financial Review on pages 8 and 9.
The Chairman and other non executive directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders if they are requested to do so.
In addition to the Chief Executives regular reports, directors may develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders from presentations by the Companys brokers to the whole Board and attendance at analysts briefings as required.
Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an occasion for communication with its shareholders.
All proxy votes are counted by the Companys Registrars and the level of voting on each resolution is made available at the end of the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on substantially separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the report and accounts.
The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to questions and it is usual for all other directors to attend.
It is the intention of the Board that the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
