Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Including the Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board met seven times during 2003.
All directors Corporate Governance has been and remains the receive detailed papers one week prior to the Board responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is committed Meeting.
Overall attendance by the directors during 2003 to maintaining high standards of business integrity and was 85%.
professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the directors support the highest There is a clearly defined division of responsibilities at the standards in corporate governance.
head of the Company, through the separation of the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
All The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was in full directors have access to the advice of the Company compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board Combined Code.
The provisions of the Revised Combined procedures and applicable rules and regulations are Code, issued in July 2003, are effective for the Company observed.
In addition, the directors are able, if necessary, to from 1 January 2004.
Additional disclosure requirements by take independent professional advice at the Companys the Revised Code will be made in the 2004 Annual Report.
No such advice was sought in the year.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that THE BOARD new directors receive appropriate training and induction to The Board, as shown on pages 14 and 15, currently the Company.
There is also a procedure whereby Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman and two nonmembers may receive training as appropriate at the executive directors, who are directors of the majority Companys expense where specific expertise is required in shareholder, City Developments Limited CDL, a senior the course of the exercise of their duties.
independent non-executive director as Deputy Chairman, four additional independent non-executive directors and All current and new directors also now receive a Board four executive directors.
Each director is expected to fulfil Compendium detailing all matters relating to the Board their duties for the benefit of all shareholders and it is procedures.
believed that the independent non-executive directors provide strong independent judgement to the deliberations Non-executive directors are appointed for a specific term of the Board.
and re-appointment is not a matter of course as each directors position is reviewed as they approach reThe eight non-executive directors comprise two thirds of appointment.
Succession planning is considered by the nonthe Board.
The independent non-executive directors executive directors as appropriate.
comprise more than one third of the Board.
The Board considers that its composition ensures that no one group of individuals dominate the Boards decision taking.
This view is taken because the Companys Articles of Association require that a majority of the directors are independent of CDL.
The Articles also stipulate that if the number of votes cast at a particular meeting by the independent directors does not exceed the number to be cast by the nonindependent directors, then the latters votes are reduced so that they are one less than those of the independent directors.
It has not been necessary to conduct a formal vote on any issue during the year.
16 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 In accordance with the articles of association Sir Idris Pearce, John Sclater and Wong Hong Ren will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Fred Brown retired from the Company on 31 December 2003 and John Wilson is due to retire on 1 March 2004.
David Thomas is due to leave the Company by July 2004.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters listing key aspects of the Companys affairs, which must be referred to the Board for decision and approval.
In addition to overall control, this includes investment appraisal, strategy, significant contractual obligations exceeding one year, corporate compliance and risk management.
BOARD COMMITTEES In relation to certain matters, committees have been established with specific delegated authority.
The standing committees of the Board are the audit, remuneration and nominations committees.
All standing committees report to the Board.
The audit committee, chaired by Christopher Sneath, consists of four non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
It met four times during the year.
It assists the Board in ensuring that the Groups control systems, as explained below, provide accurate and up-to-date information and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair view of its position.
It is also responsible for reviewing accounting policies and non-audit fees paid to the external auditors to ensure that the independence of the auditors is maintained.
The committee receives reports at each meeting from the regional health and safety management groups in relation to health & safety.
The external auditors normally attend four meetings a year.
The head of internal audit attends all meetings, and the Finance Director is normally invited to attend.
The external and internal auditors have the right to speak to the members of the committee without the presence of any member of the executive management.
The Company Secretary, or his designee, is the secretary of this committee.
The remuneration committee is chaired by The Viscount Thurso and consists entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The committee met four times during the year.
It is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys remuneration policies, the remuneration package of executive directors and the operation of the Companys employee share option schemes.
The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend meetings, if appropriate, but is not present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The committee takes independent advice as deemed necessary.
The Company Secretary, or his designee, is secretary to the committee.
The Directors Remuneration Report is given on pages 23 to 28.
The fees paid to non-executive directors are considered by the full Board, having regard to advice received from the Chief Executive.
The nominations committee is chaired by the non-executive Chairman and includes four independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
The Company Secretary, or his designee, is secretary of this committee.
The committee did not meet during the year as no new appointments were considered or made in 2003.
17 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Including the Directors Report INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM The main features of the Companys internal control The full Board is responsible for the Groups system of framework are: internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In establishing this system, the directors have considered the The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by nature of the Groups business, with regard to the risks to the Board, which sets business objectives for the Group.
which that particular business is exposed, the likelihood of Annual plans and performance targets for each hotel are such risks occurring, their potential impact and the costs of set by the executive management team and reviewed by protecting against them.
However, such a system is the Board in the light of overall objectives: designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only The processes used to manage the key risks to the success provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against of the Group are regularly reviewed by the Board and material misstatement.
Such processes include, but are not limited to, customer satisfaction, health and safety, The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull market share, insurance matters, the performance of guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, acquisitions and treasury risks: evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, has been in place for the year under review, and up to the agreed by the Board, the day-to-day management is date of the approval of the annual report and accounts.
delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors.
The executive management team receives a Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of monthly summary of the results from the businesses and internal controls is delegated to line management.
For each carries out regular operational reviews with business of the identified primary risks facing the Group, an managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall executive director has taken responsibility to report to the objectives and management of the primary risks of the full Board on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of the Group.
operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the GOING CONCERN Companys external auditors, who report to management After having made appropriate enquiries, the directors are and to the audit committee.
In addition, responsibility is satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue delegated to an executive committee to monitor the in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they effectiveness of the systems of control in managing continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the identified risks as established by the Board.
The internal audit department reviews the effectiveness of key internal controls as part of its standard work programme, and individual reports are issued to appropriate senior management.
These reports are summarised and distributed to all members of the audit committee, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, and the external auditors four times per year.
They are subsequently reviewed by the audit committee, which ensures that, where necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
18 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires that the directors prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 18 February 2004, the Company had been notified that the following companies hold 3% or more of the issued share capital: Number of shares % of issued share capital City Developments Ltd, 147,785,025 52.28% Prudential plc 17,251,456 6.10% HBOS Plc 8,700,989 3.08% ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.00am on Wednesday 6 May 2004 at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair.
The notice to shareholders can be found at the back of the annual report.
At the Annual General Meeting resolutions will be proposed to approve the directors remuneration report, renew the directors authority to allot shares, authorise the purchase of shares in the market, renew the authority given in regard to pre-emption rights under the terms of a Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996 with City Developments Limited and renew the authority to fund donations and or incur expenditure under the terms of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to a limit of 100,000 where, it is in shareholders interests to do so.
AUDITORS In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
