Corporate governance report The Group is committed to high standards of corporate The Board is aware of the guidance contained in the Code on governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys situations where the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive shareholders for good governance in its management of the affairs officer are combined.
In the case of Misys, the Board believes that of the Group.
Throughout the period under review, the Company there is a sufficient distribution of responsibilities at the top of the has been in compliance with the provisions set out in The Company to ensure that effective power is not unduly Combined Code the Code appended to the Listing Rules of concentrated in the hands of one individual.
Although the the UK Listing Authority.
The Company has complied with the Company has an executive Chairman, the Managing Director has provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 May 2003, overall responsibility for the business, whilst responsibility for the except as noted elsewhere in this Annual Report.
day to day operation of the Banking and Securities and Healthcare Divisions is under the control of the respective Chief Executive The Company acknowledges the release of the reports resulting Officers on the Misys Board.
Responsibility for the strategic from the Higgs and Smith reviews, which give provisional guidance development of the Group is shared among the Chairman, the with regard to the role of non-executive Directors and Audit Director of Business Development and the Corporate Development Committees, respectively.
Based on a preliminary review of the Director.
In addition, as described above, the Board has a highproposed changes to the Code which could result from these quality and independent non-executive element.
Sir Dominic reports, the Company would not anticipate the need to make Cadbury has been nominated by the Board as the senior significant modifications to its current corporate governance independent non-executive Director, to provide an alternative structure, policies and procedures.
contact at Board level, other than the Chairman.
THE BOARD A formal procedure exists to allow the Directors, in appropriate The Misys Board currently comprises the executive Chairman, circumstances, to take independent professional advice in respect six other executive Directors and five non-executive Directors, of their duties, with any fees incurred being paid by the Group.
All including the senior non-executive Director, Sir Dominic Cadbury.
Directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and Their biographies appear on pages 32 and 33.
The Company Secretary is also charged with ensuring that demonstrates a range of business, financial and global experience, all new Board members are equipped to fulfil their duties and which is vital to the successful direction of a global company.
As part of the early familiarisation programme, The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive new non-executive Directors are encouraged to meet the executive Directors and considers that each of them is able to devote the Directors individually and engage in an induction programme of agreed amount of time to the business of the Company.
visits to different parts of the Group.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of the Non-executive Directors are appointed for a three year term after Companys business and determines Group strategy, reviews which their appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
trading performance, ensures adequate funding and examines In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, any major investments.
One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to Director who at the date of the notice convening the Annual ensure that Board members receive sufficient and timely General Meeting has held office for more than 30 months since information regarding corporate and business issues to enable being appointed or last reappointed by the Company in General them to discharge their duties, and to enable them to make further Meeting, is obliged to retire from office but is eligible for enquiries where necessary.
The adequacy of this information is reappointment.
From time to time, the Board also receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on new BOARD COMMITTEES opportunities for the Group or other matters of significance.
The The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself Board meets at least eight times a year 10 times during 2002 03, which includes responsibility for environmental policy.
It has, aiming to hold at least one meeting each year in the United States.
however, delegated certain responsibilities to six principal Board The non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent as Committees, which operate within clearly defined written terms defined in the Code, fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability by of reference.
These are complemented by an active internal audit bringing their independent judgement to bear on issues brought function.
Further details on internal control are provided in the before the Board and Board Committee meetings.
considerable knowledge and experience from other areas of The Group Operating Board comprises the executive Directors, business and public life, and their views carry significant weight in the Chief Technology Officer and the Group Human Resources the Boards decisions.
They also meet as a group without executive Director and is chaired by Kevin Lomax.
It meets approximately Directors being present.
three times a year seven times during 2002 03.
It has responsibility for the development and implementation of Group strategy as well as day to day operational management.
36 Misys Annual Report 2003 The Audit Committee, chaired by Tony Alexander, consists of on a regular basis.
All the executive Directors, together with the all the non-executive Directors and is scheduled to meet three Company Secretary, are members of the Committee, with a times during 2003 04 twice during 2002 03 with the Finance minimum of two members required to attend.
Director, Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors The Board and the Audit Committee have recently participated  LLP PwC invited to attend as appropriate.
in a review and assessment exercise to measure their effectiveness The Committee reviews and discusses the intended publication of and improve performance.
The results were evaluated by the Board results, the effectiveness and reliability of the Groups system of and are being used to address any areas where it is felt action internal control, any changes to financial reporting requirements would be helpful.
and matters arising from the annual Group audit.
Internal audit and management control issues are also considered by the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Committee, and the Internal Audit Manager has direct access The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining a to the Committee Chairman.
purposeful relationship with its investors.
The Chairman, the Finance Director, the Director of Business Development and the The Committee recognises that the independence of PwC is of Managing Director hold briefing meetings with analysts and paramount importance to shareholders, and has established a institutional shareholders, including presentations following the framework for monitoring and approving the level of non-audit interim and final results announcements, and their views are fed fees paid to them.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, also back to the Board.
In addition, business and market briefings are keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the held throughout the year to ensure that the analysts and investing auditors.
The Committee reviews the nature and amount of noncommunity receive a broader view of the Groups operations and audit work undertaken by PwC each year to satisfy itself that there the issues faced by the business.
is no adverse impact on their independence.
In some cases, the nature of the work may make it cost effective to select PwC as The principal communication with private investors is through the they have a good understanding of the Group and its businesses.
com, the Annual Report and PwC may also be appointed for work of a consultancy nature, but financial statements, the Interim Report and the AGM.
All the only after intensive checks to confirm that, by doing so, there will Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders with be clear benefits to the Company and efficiencies to be obtained.
the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board.
The They are also subject to professional standards which safeguard Company responds as necessary to enquiries from individual the integrity of the auditing role they perform on behalf of the shareholders on a wide range of issues.
Details of the fees paid to PwC during The financial and other information, including presentations to the year are given in note 3 to the accounts on page 58. analysts and investors in audio and text formats, is made available The Nomination Committee, chaired by Chuck Farr, consists on the Companys website.
Further details are contained in the of all the non-executive Directors and meets as necessary twice Investor Information section inside the back cover.
during 2002 03, liaising closely with the Chairman.
It assesses AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE the suitability of persons for appointment as Directors and, when The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors, appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the  LLP, and concluded that there are Board.
The Committee also has a key role in planning for the sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required succession of senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury, consists of all the non-executive Directors and meets when INTERNAL CONTROL necessary, but usually not less than twice a year five times during The Groups system of internal control comprises a number of 2002 03.
Executive Directors are invited to attend the Committees different individual processes, procedures and mechanisms.
When meetings as the members consider appropriate.
Details of the taken together, they provide a reasonable, but not absolute, Committees main functions, and its remuneration policies for the assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The following Companys Directors, are provided in the Remuneration Report on describes the main features of the Groups system of internal control.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Treasury Committee is responsible for reviewing and A comprehensive risk management process has been developed recommending all changes to the Treasury Policy, including but not that identifies and evaluates the key business, operational, financial limited to, policies relating to foreign exchange, funding, liquidity and compliance risks that are considered to be important both and interest rate exposure.
A minimum of two members are from an overall Group and individual business perspective.
The required to attend, one of whom must be the Chairman or Finance process involves each division reviewing, on an ongoing basis, the Director and the other members are the Corporate Development most important risks to which the business is exposed and ranking Director, the Director of Business Development and the Group these according to whether business unit management consider Treasurer.
It meets on an ad hoc basis.
them potentially to have a high, medium or low impact on their The General Purposes Committee transacts routine business of operations.
In addition, the businesses are required to review the the Board.
The Committee operates within clearly defined written control processes in place that manage, and or mitigate, the terms of reference and financial limits.
It meets when necessary potential exposure to the business of these risks occurring.
43 times during 2002 03 and reports to the Board on its decisions www.
com 37 Corporate governance report continued The business risks are reviewed and approved at an operating INTERNAL AUDIT Board level and then presented to the Group Operating Board, who The internal audit function assesses, at operating unit level, key determine which risks, in their opinion, are the most significant to financial controls and compliance with the Groups policies and the Group overall.
These are reported to the main Board.
procedures through a structured review process.
The Group functions, including Group Treasury, are also reviewed as part of FINANCIAL MONITORING AND REPORTING internal audits work plan.
The work plan and key findings of the Detailed financial budgets are prepared annually by the business internal audit process are reviewed regularly by the Audit units and culminate in a projection of anticipated profits, cash flow Committee.
and potential investments for the Group.
The Group budget is The process and systems described above have been in place formally approved by the Board.
Actual performance, as shown in during the financial year ended 31 May 2003 and up to the date monthly financial statements and key performance indicators, is of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors then compared with the control budget on a monthly basis, and acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups together with regular updated forecasts, are reviewed by the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and Board.
There is a high emphasis placed on cash generation with confirm that they have reviewed its effectiveness.
cash flows and balances monitored at both business, divisional and Group level by a system of weekly and monthly cash reports.
Treasury and taxation policies are reviewed at least annually and are On behalf of the Board themselves subject to regular reporting to the Board.
Howard Evans AUTHORITY LEVELS Company Secretary Defined levels of authority at Group, divisional and business unit level are established for the approval of major development 17 July 2003 projects, contractual and other commitments of a revenue nature and capital expenditure.
Authority levels are reviewed regularly and approved by the Group or divisional Board as appropriate.
INVESTMENT APPRAISAL Potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are reviewed rigorously against the Groups standards for investment return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions before contractual commitment.
SYSTEM OF OPERATING UNIT CONTROL PROCEDURES Business unit performance and internal control is monitored by regular Board and management meetings attended by Misys executive and divisional Directors.
Financial controls and procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual, which is circulated to all business units and published on the Groups intranet.
Written confirmation of compliance with internal financial control policies is obtained from the finance directors and general managers of the operating units.
In addition, compliance with the Groups policies and procedures is monitored by means of regular visits to operating units by the Groups financial management.
