Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended without discrimination and is supportive of the employment and 30 September 2003. advancement of disabled persons.
Principal activities Considerable emphasis is placed on employee communication, The Group is a leading UK operator of managed pubs, bars and particularly on matters relating to the Companys business and restaurants.
Its predominantly freehold estate comprises over its performance.
Communication channels include regular team 2,000 sites throughout the UK and over 40 sites in Germany.
meetings, informal briengs, in-house publications and intranets.
Regular feedback is obtained through employee focus groups Business review and future developments and employee opinion surveys, the results of which are used The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with in developing management policies and best practice.
the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 6 and the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Business The Company has established a European Forum to bring Review in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, together senior managers and employee representatives to which together include information about the Groups business, discuss common issues.
the financial performance during the year and likely developments.
Investors in people Formation of the Company and separation from Six Continents Mitchells & Butlers continues to support Investors In People The Company was incorporated on 2 October 2002.
It is the IIP actively and has maintained accreditation for the vehicle that was used to separate the leisure retailing interests tenth successive year.
It regards IIP, with its requirement for from Six Continents PLC and became an independent listed measurement against a rigorous national standard, as an company on 15 April 2003.
Details of the terms for shareholders excellent, disciplined process for communicating goals and of that separation, including the related return of capital, are set objectives to employees and ensuring that they are given out under Investor Information on pages 27 and 28 of the Annual the skills required to deliver business strategies.
In this way, Review and Summary Financial Statement.
individuals and the business both benefit.
Securitisation and return of shareholder funds Health and safety Following separation, the Company has renanced its operations The Group strives to provide and maintain a safe environment through a securitisation of its UK pubs and pub restaurants for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises business.
Since the year end, 1.9bn was successfully raised and to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
by means of a bonds issue and the Companys existing 1.2bn In addition, all Group companies: of borrowings were repaid on 13 November 2003. aim to protect the health of employees with suitable, specic On 1 December 2003, in connection with the proposed return work-based strategies: of funds to shareholders, the Company in General Meeting approved a share consolidation of 12 new ordinary shares for seek to minimise the risk of injury from company activity: every 17 existing ordinary shares which took effect before the opening of business on 2 December 2003.
On 8 December 2003, ensure that through senior management participation, 501m will be returned to shareholders by special dividend of sufficient resources and information are made available and 68p per share, existing on 1 December 2003. suitable management systems are in place to address health and safety matters: and Dividends The Board recommends: encourage the involvement of employees and aim for continual improvement in health and safety matters through a formal a final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2003 of 5.65p structure with a reporting and review process.
per share to be paid on 16 February 2004 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 19 December 2003.
Compliance with Group policy is monitored and audited centrally and a comprehensive annual health and safety report is produced The Board has announced that it intends to recommend: for the Board.
an interim dividend for the year to 30 September 2004 Environmental and social responsibility of 2.85p per share: and Mitchells & Butlers recognises that it is part of a wider community of employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and others a final dividend for the year to 30 September 2004 of 6.65p and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in a way that per share.
respects the social, economic and environmental wellbeing of the wider world.
Our business conduct guidelines set out the Employees standards of behaviour expected from those working for the The Group employed an average of 37,556 people in 2003.
The Groups Environmental and Social Responsibility committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees policies are available on the Companys website.
Annual Report 2003 7 Directors report continued Share capital their annual cash bonuses in shares, together with a related The Companys shares were listed on the Official List and award of shares by the Company, with deferred release over were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange on three years.
15 April 2003 with 734,461,900 ordinary shares in issue.
Subsequently, 1,761,879 shares were issued under share schemes No shares were released during the year and Executive Directors and 736,223,779 shares were in issue at 30 September 2003. maximum accrued entitlements for the year for future release are set out on page 17.
Since the year end, shareholders have approved a share consolidation related to the return of funds to shareholders, Policy on payment of suppliers whereby every 17 existing ordinary shares were replaced by The Company is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
12 new ordinary shares on 2 December 2003.
The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is to agree payment terms with major suppliers and abide by those terms, Substantial shareholdings subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Amounts owed As at 3 December 2003, the Company had been notied of the to other suppliers are settled in or before the end of the month following substantial interests 3% or more in its shares: following that in which the Company receives a valid invoice.
Capital Group Companies, Inc 6.8% Going concern Legal & General Group Plc 3.4% The financial statements which appear on pages 22 to 49 Goldman Sachs Group Inc 3.1% have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making AXA SA 3.0% appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Employee share plans existence for the foreseeable future.
Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage employee participation in the Groups success through share ownership and on separation Charitable donations from Six Continents it established the following plans: The Company supports community initiatives and charitable causes and in 2003 donated 71,000.
In addition to these cash Sharesave plan contributions, the Companys employees are encouraged to In May 2003, options were granted to 2,495 employees over give their time and skills to a variety of causes and the Company 3,995,490 shares at 169p per share, a 20% discount to the makes donations in kind, such as making its facilities available market price.
for use or by giving free meals in Company premises.
It is estimated that those contributions raised the total value of the Share incentive plan Companys donations to approximately 620,000.
425,807 shares were acquired by the Share Incentive Plan Trustee, Hill Samuel ESOP Trustee Ltd, and allocated as free Political donations shares to 8,015 eligible employees subject to the plan rules.
The Company made no political donations during the year and intends to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, Executive share option plan however, as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach In May 2003, options were granted to 60 employees over of the law, seek shareholder authority at its Annual General 4,263,720 shares at 219p per share.
Options under this scheme Meeting in 2004 to make limited donations or incur limited political are only exercisable if a performance condition is met and for expenditure, although it has no intention of using the authority.
options granted in 2003, the condition is set out on page 13.
Annual General Meeting Under the terms of the separation from Six Continents, certain The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held option holders under the Six Continents Executive Share Option at 12 noon on Thursday, 12 February 2004 is contained in Schemes were given the opportunity to exchange their Six a circular sent to shareholders with this report.
At the meeting, Continents options for new options over the Companys shares.
resolutions will be proposed to renew the authority to issue shares As a result of this exchange, 26,478,726 shares were put under without applying statutory pre-emption rights and to authorise the option at prices ranging from 181p to 364p.
Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Performance restricted share plan Auditors This plan replaced the existing Six Continents long term incentive Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue plan for Mitchells & Butlers employees.
In 2003, 19 members in ofce as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will have been invited to participate subject to the achievement of be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
performance conditions as set out on page 13.
No shares vested during the year.
By order of the Board Bronagh Kennedy Short term deferred incentive plan Company Secretary This plan enables senior executives to take all or part of 3 December 2003 8 Mitchells & Butlers Corporate governance Combined Code compliance the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be The Board is committed to compliance with the principles recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute of corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, on Corporate Governance the Code.
In the opinion of the the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the Board, the Company complied as soon as practicable following system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
In line with recent its listing with the Code requirements as they applied to developments in good corporate governance and to comply with companies with a year ended on 30 September 2003.
The the Groups US obligations, the Group is developing a process Senior Independent Director was appointed after the year end.
to review the effectiveness of internal financial control based on the framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring The Company is aware of the revisions made to the Code Organisations of the Treadway Commission the COSO framework.
the Revised Code for companies with years beginning on or The Group anticipates reporting on the effectiveness of its internal after 1 November 2003 and is taking steps to comply in those financial controls under the COSO framework in the year ending areas where it does not already do so.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews In order to discharge that responsibility, the Board confirms that both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
These procedures have been in place since the Group was listed and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Board and committee structure To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Business performance is managed closely and in particular, Board and committee structure operates as set out below.
the Board and the Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the The Board business, to monitor: The Board consists of the part-time Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series Directors.
In view of the requirement of the Revised Code of strategic reviews: that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board financial performance, within a comprehensive financial intends to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director planning and accounting framework: in 2004. capital investment and asset management performance, There are nine regular Board meetings a year and further with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment ad hoc meetings to consider matters which are time critical.
reviews: and There have been six meetings since the Company was listed.
Sir Tim Lankester was not able to attend one meeting, otherwise risk management, through an ongoing process, which there was full attendance.
accords with the Turnbull guidance and provides assurance through reports from the Director of Group Assurance that The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic the significant risks faced by the Group are being identied, direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of past investments and maintains an overview and control of In addition, the Audit Committee receives: the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and reports from the Director of Group Assurance on the work compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary financial carried out under the annual internal audit plan, including and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its an annual report on the operation of the monitoring processes objectives.
The Board has established its terms of reference, set out above to support the Boards annual statement on which are published on the Companys website.
internal control: and The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good reports from the external auditors.
information ows to the Board and its committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors, as well Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has as facilitating the induction of Directors and assisting with their conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal professional development as required.
The Company Secretary control during the year ended 30 September 2003.
The system is responsible, through the Chairman, for advising the Board on of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, all corporate governance matters.
