Notes to the financial statements continued Staff costs 33.
US GAAP reconciliations Under UK GAAP, the Group makes a charge for the cost of certain share incentive plans based on the fair value of the shares on the date of The financial statements set out on pages 24 to 47 are prepared in the award.
The cost is recognised over the period of the schemes.
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Under US GAAP, these awards would be accounted for as variable plans Kingdom UK GAAP which differ from those generally accepted in the and the charge would be based on the intrinsic value of the shares United States US GAAP.
The significant differences, as they apply to using the share price at the balance sheet date.
A charge would also the Group, are summarised below.
be made under US GAAP in respect of options granted under the Sharesave Scheme based on the intrinsic value at the date of grant, and Page 49 provides a reconciliation between profit for the financial year the charge would be recognised over the period of the savings contracts.
under UK GAAP and net income under US GAAP and between Since 24 January 2002, an employers offer to enter into new contracts shareholders funds under UK GAAP and shareholders equity under at a lower exercise price than the price under existing contracts can US GAAP.
cause variable plan accounting to apply in respect of certain options.
This could result in an additional charge for those options that qualify for Basis of preparation variable plan accounting.
In addition, under US GAAP, a charge would As described in note 1, the Groups financial statements exclude the also be made in respect of option grants under the Groups Executive results, cash ows and net assets of Six Continents PLC and its hotels and Share Option Plan.
Variable plan accounting would apply and the charge soft drinks subsidiaries for all periods presented.
This basis of preparation would be recognised over the period of the plans.
accords with the carve out basis of accounting that would be required under US GAAP.
Similarly, the merger accounting principles used with The adjustment resulting from the above differences is not large enough respect to the transfer of entities to the Group from other Six Continents to register in the US GAAP reconciliations.
group companies accords with the accounting for a reorganisation of entities under common control that would be required under US GAAP.
Pension costs The Group provides for the cost of retirement benets based upon Intangible xed assets consistent percentages of employees pensionable pay as recommended Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is by independent qualied actuaries.
On 1 April 2003, a subsidiary of capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life.
Goodwill arising on the Group became the sponsoring employer of the two pension plans acquisitions prior to 30 September 1998 was eliminated against reserves.
which were previously operated by Six Continents PLC.
Under UK Under US GAAP, the Group adopted SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other GAAP the Mitchells & Butlers element of these pension plans has been Intangible Assets with effect from 1 October 2002.
In accordance with reected as if the plans had always been part of the Group.
Under SFAS 142, goodwill would be capitalised and not amortised, but tested for US GAAP, the plans would only be recognised from 1 April 2003 and impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis when a triggering for prior periods would have been accounted for as multiple-employer event occurs.
Prior to 1 October 2002 under US GAAP, goodwill would plans.
From 1 April 2003, under US GAAP the projected benefit have been capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life, not obligation pension liability in respect of the Groups two principal exceeding 40 years.
The Group is not required to recognise any intangible pension plans would be matched against the fair value of the plans assets, other than goodwill, under either UK GAAP or US GAAP.
assets and would be adjusted to reect any unrecognised obligations or assets in determining the pension cost or credit for the year.
SFAS 142 requires a two-step process in evaluating goodwill for impairment.
The first step requires the comparison of the fair value of At 1 April 2003, the accumulated benefit obligations exceeded the fair each reporting unit to its carrying value.
If the fair value of the reporting value of the plans assets.
In these circumstances, US GAAP requires unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required.
If the the recognition of the difference as a balance sheet liability and the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second step elimination of any amounts previously recognised as a prepaid pension is required to determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any.
An equal amount, not exceeding the amount of unrecognised past An impairment charge is recognised if the carrying value of a reporting service cost, is recognised as an intangible asset with the balance units goodwill exceeds the fair value of that goodwill.
reported in other comprehensive income.
Accordingly, on 1 April 2003, an accumulated benefit obligation of 260m and an intangible asset The Group performed initial and subsequent evaluations of its goodwill using of 16m were recognised.
During the period to 30 September 2003 1 October 2002 and 30 September 2003 as the respective valuation dates.
the accumulated benefit obligation decreased by 48m.
An impairment charge was not required at either of the valuation dates.
Deferred taxation Tangible xed assets The Group provides for deferred taxation in respect of timing differences, Prior to 1 October 1999, the Groups properties were valued from time subject to certain exceptions, between the recognition of gains and to time by professionally qualified external valuers.
Book values were losses in the financial statements and for tax purposes.
Timing differences adjusted to accord with the valuations.
Under US GAAP, revaluation recognised include accelerated capital allowances and short-term timing would not have been permitted.
Under US GAAP, deferred taxation would be computed, on Depreciation is based on the book value of assets, including revaluation a stand-alone basis, on all differences between the tax bases and book where appropriate.
Prior to 1 October 1999, freehold pubs were not values of assets and liabilities which will result in taxable or tax deductible depreciated under UK GAAP, as any charge would have been immaterial amounts arising in future years.
given that such properties were maintained, as a matter of policy, by a programme of repair and maintenance such that their residual Exceptional items values were at least equal to their book values.
Following the introduction Certain exceptional items are shown on the face of the profit and loss of FRS 15, which was implemented by the Group with effect from account statement after operating profit.
These items are mainly gains 1 October 1999, all properties are depreciated under UK GAAP.
and losses on the sale of businesses and fixed assets, and the cost of There is now no difference between UK GAAP and US GAAP with fundamental reorganisations.
Under US GAAP these items would be regard to depreciation policies.
classied as operating profit or expenses.
Provisions Proposed dividends Included in provisions for liabilities and charges are amounts which relate Final ordinary dividends are provided for in the year in respect of which to the restructuring of certain of the Groups operations.
Under US GAAP, they are proposed by the Board for approval by shareholders.
Under certain of these amounts would be charged to net income as incurred.
US GAAP, dividends would not be provided for until the year in which The restructuring was substantially completed during the year.
