Corporate Governance The Group provides a wide range of support services to its customers and in so doing seeks to enhance shareholder value.
An effective system of Corporate Governance is fundamental to fulfilling the Groups corporate responsibilities and the achievement of its financial objectives.
The policy of the Board of MITIE is to manage its affairs in accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance incorporated into the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Board and Committee Structure Board of Directors The Board of MITIE comprised seven Executive and four independent Non-Executive Directors at the end of the year.
Since the year-end, Cullum McAlpine has been appointed a Non-Executive Director.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive which ensures a balance of power and authority such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and is responsible for overall strategy and performance, acquisitions, capital expenditure and the safeguard of the assets of the Group.
At least a week before each Board meeting, each Director is supplied with an agenda and sufficient supporting papers that provide the appropriate information required to properly discharge their duties.
Included within these papers are detailed results for each of the Groups operating Divisions as well as on an overall basis.
Other papers include a treasury report detailing the cash position across the Group and proposals regarding future potential acquisitions, disposals, start-ups or restructuring.
The monthly results and analysis are also circulated in months where no Board meeting is held.
The Board constantly reviews the quality, nature and presentation of information provided and requests changes where they feel such changes will offer information that is more appropriate.
All Directors are appointed by the Board as a whole and once formally appointed, each Director submits himself for re-election at least every three years.
None of the Executive Directors have service contracts with notice periods greater than twelve months.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Directors are able to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Groups expense.
No advice has been sought to date.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets at least five times a year.
It is responsible for the day to day management of the business.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members currently comprise the Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the Managing Directors of the Business Units, the Head of Corporate Affairs and the Head of Central Services.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to examine and consider matters relating to the affairs of the Group.
These matters include examination of the Companys Annual Accounts and review of the internal financial control procedures in place for controlling the Groups business, as well as compliance with accounting standards and generally accepted accounting principles.
In addition, the fees and objectivity of the Groups Auditors and other external accounting advisers are considered by members of the Committee.
Detailed presentations to the Committee are made, on request, by the Groups internal risk management function and the Groups external Auditors.
The presence of the Group Finance Director and other senior executives from the Group may be requested, but the Committee has access to the Auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups framework of Executive remuneration and determines on its behalf specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
In framing its remuneration policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions of Section 1B of and Schedule A to the Combined Code.
22 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Corporate Governance Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is responsible for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments and succession planning issues.
Terms of reference exist for the Board and its Committees.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Report on pages 18 to 21 includes details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of the Directors.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal financial and operating controls, which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aim to safeguard Group assets, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Key features of the system of internal control are as follows: Group Organisation and Culture By its statements and actions, the Board emphasises a culture of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
The Board focuses mainly on strategic issues, senior management and financial performance.
The Executive Committee concentrates on the formulation of strategic proposals to the Board and operational decision making.
The individual operating companies Managing Directors manage their businesses with the support of senior management.
Information Systems There is a comprehensive system of reporting to the Board, based on an annual budget prepared in line with the business plan, half yearly forecasts and regular reporting of operating results.
Key operational performance indicators are continuously monitored by the Executive Directors and senior management.
Individual Company Controls Each operating company regularly reviews its risk profile using a common strategic risk framework.
Early warning mechanisms together with the system for reducing the risks are documented.
The operating companies refine each framework in the light of changing aspects of its business.
Furthermore, individual companies complete an annual Statement of Internal Controls.
Risk Management The internal risk management function within the Group undertakes a programme to address internal control and risk management processes with particular reference to the Turnbull Report.
Its conclusions are advised to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group and that the process has been in place for the year under review and remains current.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of this framework, which has operated during the period covered by the Directors Report and Accounts and up to and including the date of approval of these Accounts by the Board.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2003, the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority, with the exception of Code Provision A.
3.1, until 12 July 2002, which requires Non-Executive Directors to comprise not less than one third of the Board.
This exception occurred while MITIE continued to search for Non-Executive Directors with appropriate relevant experience.
With the appointment of Manish J Chande, this requirement has been met.
The Board has commenced a process to consider and take account of the recommendations and guidance contained in the Higgs review of non-executive directors and in the Smith report on Audit Committees, both published in January 2003.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 23
