qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 48 Report on corporate governance The Board continues to seek compliance with corporate governance 12 months notice from either the Company or the Director.
best practice and supports high standards in corporate governance.
In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Articles The application, during the financial year, of the principles in Section of Association, all Directors submit themselves for re-election at least 1 of the Combined Code are described in the appropriate sections of every three years.
this statement and in the report on directors remuneration on pages 51 to 60.
The Directors consider that the Company has fully complied The Board has adopted appropriate governance policies dealing with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
with the conduct of Board affairs and delegations, which are described below.
The Board The Board comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Board Committees Chief Financial officer, three further executive Directors, and seven The Board has delegated authority to the following committees independent non-executive Directors, one of whom, Andrew on specic matters.
All of the committees have formal terms of Sukawaty, the Deputy Chairman, is recognised as the senior reference.
Minutes of meetings are formally recorded.
independent Director to whom concerns can be conveyed independently of the Chairman.
Chairman: David Varney The Chairmans Committee advises and assists the Chairman in the The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year preparation for Board meetings.
The Committee also acts on behalf together with an annual off-site conference to review and discuss of the Board between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional corporate strategy.
Additional meetings are held as necessary.
During circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable to convene the financial year ended 31 March 2003, the Board met ten times.
In addition to the Chairman, Peter Erskine Whilst not actively involved in the day-to-day management of the and David Finch are members of the Committee.
Company, the non-executive Directors play an important role in bringing their independent judgement and considerable knowledge Audit Committee.
Chairman: Stephen Hodge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The Directors During the financial year, all the non-executive Directors were biographies appear on pages 44 and 45. members of the Audit Committee.
Since 1 April 2003, the The Board is responsible for the overall Group strategy and competent Committee comprises Stephen Hodge, David Arculus, David Chance, management of the affairs of the Group.
The Board has a formal Neelie Kroes and Ian Meakins.
The Committee monitors the schedule of matters specically reserved to it for decision, including adequacy of the Groups accounting policies and financial reporting: the approval of strategic plans and the annual operating plan, reviews the half-yearly and annual financial statements before they significant investments and capital projects, and treasury and risk are presented to the Board: monitors internal financial and nonmanagement policies.
financial controls, including the system for maintaining these controls: maintains a liaison with the internal and external auditors, Guidelines are in place concerning the content, presentation and keeping under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost delivery of papers by management to Directors for each Board effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors meeting, so that the Directors have enough information to be and matters relating to the provision of, including the extent of, their properly briefed.
Where issues arise at Board meetings, the non-audit services.
The Committee focuses primarily on compliance Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed and, with legal requirements, accounting standards and the rules of the where necessary, appropriate further enquiries are made.
UK Listing Authority and other regulators.
The Committee also All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company receives formal reports from the Head of Internal Audit who Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board attends meetings.
procedures are followed and maintaining compliance with all The Committee meets four times a year, with part of each applicable rules and regulations.
The removal of the Company meeting currently being held between the Committee members Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is an agreed and the external auditors in private.
Since the year-end, the procedure for Directors to take, if necessary, independent Board has adopted a formal policy governing the independence of professional advice at the Companys expense.
the Companys external auditors and dening those non-audit At the time of a Directors appointment to the Board, an internal services that may be provided to the Group, including those which induction programme is provided on the Groups strategic and require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
business plans and developments to date.
The content of this induction programme and, where appropriate, any additional Finance Committee.
Chairman: David Varney training which may be required by the Director, is kept under The Finance Committee considers nancing and investment decisions review.
Directors are also advised of their legal and other concerning the Group.
The Committee normally meets four times a obligations as a Director of a listed company.
In addition to the Chairman, Peter Erskine and David Finch are members of the Committee.
Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for three years.
Towards the end of that period, the Board will consider whether to Nomination Committee.
Chairman: David Varney continue their appointment, which will then become terminable on During the financial year, all the non-executive Directors were 48 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp042-050.
qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 49 members of the Nomination Committee.
Since 1 April 2003, the business objectives: any system can provide only reasonable and Committee comprises David Varney, David Arculus, David Chance, not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Paul Myners and Andrew Sukawaty.
The Committee is responsible The Board sets the policy on Internal Control and Risk Management for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and that is implemented by management.
This policy is in accordance for recommending candidates for the approval of the Board for with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Board membership.
Chairman: Andrew Sukawaty Internal Control compliance, Risk Management and Internal Audit During the financial year, all the non-executive Directors were are the responsibility of separate functions within the Company but members of the Remuneration Committee.
Since 1 April 2003, the they operate holistically to deliver an effective internal control system.
Committee comprises Andrew Sukawaty, Stephen Hodge, Neelie Kroes, Ian Meakins and Paul Myners.
The Committee is responsible Risk management for determining the framework and policy for the remuneration of The Group has a detailed ongoing risk management process for the Chairman, all executive Directors, the Company Secretary and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by General Counsel and members of the Executive Committee and for the Company.
This process has been reviewed and updated during determining, within agreed terms of reference, specic remuneration the year.
packages for each of these, including any pension rights, any Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the compensation payments and the implementation of executive Groups annual strategic planning cycle and this includes the incentive schemes.
The Committee will operate on the principle consideration of major business risks by senior management.
that members of the executive management should be provided with appropriate incentives to encourage superior performance The risk management process comprises the following key elements: and should, in a fair and responsible manner, be rewarded for Group operating companies and key functions in the business their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
The carry out risk assessments, using workshop techniques, to report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 51 to 60. determine the nature and extent of risks facing the Company: the Executive Committee undertakes a formal Group-wide risk The Chief Executive officer, Peter Erskine, together with the other review every six months, which is reviewed by the Board.
Risk executive Directors and his senior executive team, is responsible for management is a formal item at each Executive Committee the executive day-to-day running of the Company.
He chairs the meeting: Executive Committee, which is responsible for the preparation and registers are produced which detail significant risks and indicate maintenance of strategic plans for the Group and for monitoring the likelihood, impact, and the level of controls, together with performance of the Group as a whole.
mitigating actions: During the financial year, a Disclosure Committee was established the prole of the significant risks from the registers is to consider the materiality of information and the respective summarised and tracked using a consolidated risk map: disclosure obligations in releases made to regulatory bodies.
This senior management is accountable and responsible for Committee assists the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial managing risks within the Group, supported by dedicated officer to evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure risk managers.
These risk managers assist in embedding risk controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating management within the business culture, via risk forums, to the Group is made known to them by others.
team meetings, training sessions and the Companys intranet: the Internal Audit function also promotes effective risk Future governance management in the business operations: and The Board will continue to keep its corporate governance aligned a fast track process for identifying and responding to evolving with best practice and intends to carry out a further review following risks and significant changes to existing risks so that they are the Financial Reporting Council announcement of its amendments to reported to an appropriate level of management and corrective the Combined Code in response to Derek Higgs review of the role action is taken.
and effectiveness of non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smiths report on the role of audit committees.
The Group will continue to Control environment comply with New York Stock Exchange listing rules and the SEC rules The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the implementing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, where they apply to effectiveness of the operation of internal control procedures in the the Group as a foreign issuer.
Group during the financial year.
The Audit Committee, which meets quarterly, reviews reports from the Executive Committee and from Internal control both the internal and external auditors, keeping under review the Responsibility scope and results of the audit and the cost effectiveness, The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of independence and objectivity of the auditors and reports its internal control and risk management and for reviewing the conclusions to the Board.
The Audit Committee has carried out effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are designed to these actions during the year.
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 50 Report on corporate governance Senior management report each six months to the Chief Financial private investors and encourage their participation.
All substantial officer on the operation of internal controls in their area of issues, including the adoption of the annual report and financial responsibility and report any significant control failings or statements, are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on weaknesses.
At the Annual General Meeting the number of proxy votes to be cast for or against each resolution, together with Annual assessment the number of proxy abstentions, are indicated after the vote has The Chief Executive officer receives annual reports from senior been dealt with on a show of hands.
It is intended that the executives responsible for major Group operations with their Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees opinions on the effectiveness of the operation of internal controls will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Board has reviewed the nature, extent and changes to the The Directors have reviewed the Groups liquid resources and significant risks to the business.
The Groups current key risks are borrowing facilities and the Groups budget and cash ow forecast summarised in risk factors on pages 42 and 43. for the year to 31 March 2004 and outline projections for the The Internal Control and Risk Management policy has been reviewed subsequent year.
On the basis of this review, the Directors are during the year.
satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, The Groups internal auditors carry out regular assessments of the the Directors adopt the going-concern basis in the preparation quality of the Internal Control and Risk Management process as part of the financial statements.
of their cyclic risk based audit approach.
These processes have been in place for the whole of the financial year and have continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
Business principles To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in our standards of business ethics and corporate governance, mmO has introduced 2 new guidelines on Business Principles covering the whole Group, which have been endorsed by the Chairman.
This followed an extensive review process involving internal consultation and an external benchmarking exercise.
A copy of the statement is available on the Companys web site.
These high-level principles are supported by a condential helpline and e-mail facility, which are available to employees who have questions regarding the application of the principles.
The Company also continues to require its business partners and suppliers to apply these principles when dealing with mmO.
2 Corporate responsibility The Board takes account of significant social, environmental and ethical issues that affect the Group.
This includes risks and opportunities that relate to our supply chain, our people, the environment and society around us.
The management of these issues are covered in the corporate responsibility section of this report, on pages 22 and 23, which contains information in accordance with the Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility, issued by the Association of British Insurers.
We are also producing a separate externally veried Corporate Responsibility Report, which will be available in July 2003.
Investor relations The Company is committed to ongoing development of open and effective communications with shareholders.
The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer regularly meet with institutional shareholders and analysts and the Companys Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with 50 mmO plc 2003 2
