27 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Combined Code Board Committees relating to Corporate Governance The principal standing committees of the Board of Directors are: The Board of Directors of the Company confirms that throughout the year Audit ended 4 January 2004 the Company has been in compliance with the Membership as at 4 January 2004 consisted of Sir Clive Whitmore, provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Mr D C Godwin, Mr L Kylberg and Mr J MacHale who is the Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
In addition, the Committee Chairman.
Board has considered, and where appropriate implemented, the guidelines on corporate social responsibility CSR issued by the Association of British The Committee has the power to, and does, request the attendance at Insurers, as updated in February 2003. meetings of any Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee The Company is also working towards meeting the provisions of the revised also meets with the auditors without the presence of executive Directors or Combined Code.
It meets at least twice per annum, and did so The Board maintains a Corporate Governance Manual which is reviewed and in 2003, to review the scope and findings of the Companys auditors and to updated annually.
review a wide range of financial matters including annual and half year profit figures, financial statements and accompanying reports prior to their The Directors, through the Executive and Audit Committees, confirm that submission to the Board, thereby ensuring the integrity of the financial they have carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal information reported to shareholders.
The committee met in 2004 to review financial control as it operated during the year in accordance with the 2003 accounts.
Remuneration Information on how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Membership as at 4 January 2004 consisted of Sir Alan Cox, Mr D C Godwin, Code and the ABI guidelines are included in this section on Corporate Mr L Kylberg and Sir Clive Whitmore who is the Committee Chairman.
Governance, in the review of CSR and in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 30 and 31 respectively.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and the Director of Group Personnel, none of whom take The Board part in any discussion of their own remuneration or vote on any resolution.
The Board of Directors is shown on pages 24 and 25.
It holds regular The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of any meeting, meetings and met eight times during 2003.
Following the practice which has the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be been in force within the Company for many years, the roles of Chairman and considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee Group Chief Executive are separate.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board reviews contracts and authorises the remuneration, performance-related and currently comprises two executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
discretionary bonuses including performance targets and other benefits of the During the year, all of the non-executive Directors, with the exception of executive Directors.
As detailed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee, Dr Bruce Farmer during the period that he was the Chairman, were deemed the Companys intention is that by the Annual General Meeting to be held in by the Company to be independent.
These independent non-executive 2004 all executive Directors will be on 12 months notice of termination.
Directors do not participate in share schemes and bonuses nor qualify for Awards are granted by this Committee under the Companys various share pension benefits.
Dr Bruce Farmer, who was Chairman until his retirement and share option schemes.
The Committee also sets relevant criteria for on 12 December 2003, was awarded options and other benefits whilst he such schemes.
During 2003 this Committee met on four occasions.
was an executive Director of the Company in accordance with the relevant The Report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of share scheme rules.
On 24 October 2003 such options lapsed and since Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares is set his appointment as a non-executive Director in 1998, he was not entitled to out on pages 31 to 35. participate in any further share scheme grants to which the executive Directors were entitled.
Candidates for appointment as Director, having regard to the structure and balance of the Board, are considered by the Nominations Committee.
The election or re-election of any individual Director at an Annual General Meeting is also considered in each case and is recommended by the Board to shareholders in the circular sent to them with the Notice of Meeting.
Every Director must be re-elected every three years.
The Board has named Sir Clive Whitmore as senior independent Director.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board and a formal agenda for each meeting, with any Director able to request items to be added.
Since 2002 corporate social responsibility has been included in the schedule of matters.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Directors may also seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate governance Nominations Financial reporting Membership as at 4 January 2004 consisted of Mr L Kylberg as Chairman, A detailed budgeting system for each global business exists with an annual Sir Clive Whitmore, Sir Alan Cox, and Mr D C Godwin.
Mr L Kylberg became consolidated budget reviewed and approved by the Board.
The businesses Chairman of the Nominations Committee following the retirement of present their revenue and capital expenditure budgets to the Executive Dr E B Farmer from the Board on 12 December 2003.
The monthly comparison of actual and forecast is considered, including cash flows, against budget and the previous year.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director There is half yearly external reporting of the Groups results.
or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman.
Monitoring performance There are monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and regular meetings The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating executive and of the Board.
Global Business Board meetings are also held regularly within non-executive candidates for approval by the Board to fill vacancies as and the businesses to review performance.
These meetings include CSR as an when they arise, and to put in place succession plans in particular for the agenda item.
Regular presentations of actual and forecast performance are Chairman and Chief Executive.
Recruitment consultants are used to assist made to the Executive Committee by the Groups Global Business Presidents.
in providing a shortlist of candidates who then meet with the Committee.
Regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
In addition, the Committee will review the Board structure, size and composition and from time to time make any relevant recommendations Risk management to the Board.
Morgan Crucible has had a systematic approach to risk management in place.
Mr Kylberg did not vote at the meeting of the Nominations Committee at The Executive Committee has an appropriate framework to ensure that which his appointment as Chairman of the Board was discussed nor at the the current methods of risk analysis and assessment are adequate for the Board meeting when his appointment was confirmed.
Board to evaluate the likely overall impact of material risks upon the Group.
This risk-based approach enables the Board to review the existing risk Corporate Social Responsibility management and internal control processes as necessary.
The Board believes good governance of a company includes social and The identification of major business risks is carried out in conjunction with ethical awareness, and the management of the Companys impact upon the operating management and steps are taken to mitigate or manage any environment.
The Companys policy and procedures to ensure this are further material risks identified.
The Board either directly or through the Audit described in the separate CSR section on page 30, and as described above Committee receives regular reports on financial, treasury, taxation, insurance, and below, CSR matters are on the schedule of matters reserved for the pension, legal, information systems and CSR risks from the Executive Board and are included in the Companys internal control and risk Committee.
The Global Business Presidents cover risk issues at their management processes.
management meetings and during 2003 Business Risk Management Internal control Committees embraced all geographic regions to help ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Groups operations.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing and This approach is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing significant risks which has been in place for the year under review and up to their effectiveness.
The Directors have delegated the establishment and the date of approval of this Annual Report & Accounts.
implementation of the system to the Executive Committee and the monitoring to the Executive and Audit Committees.
Risk factors The Group operates under a system of controls that has been developed over The business of Morgan is affected by a number of factors, many of which are time to meet its needs.
It has an established internal control framework which is influenced by macroeconomic trends and are therefore outside the Companys appropriately monitored and supported by a new internal audit process which immediate control, although as shown above the identification and complements the Groups management structure.
The system is designed to management of such risk is systematically assessed.
As CSR matters have only manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, been specifically included in the risk management processes since 2003 the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is also designed to supply chain has not yet been fully assessed in this regard.
address key business and financial risks, and in 2003 this specifically included CSR related risks.
The main features of the formal system for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows: 29 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Communications with shareholders Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The importance of entering into a dialogue with major shareholders in the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each Company is recognised and meetings are held in order to achieve a mutual financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the understanding of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Executive and Finance Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that Director make themselves available to major shareholders as appropriate period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: throughout the year, in particular at the time of the preliminary and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: interim announcements.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Annual General Meeting is attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors.
At the end of the Meeting the results of the state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees.
In addition, to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and following the formal Meeting, individual shareholders have an opportunity prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to to meet personally with the Directors and other senior management.
presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Companys website is also used for informing existing and potential investors of Morgans results and other developments.
The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with these requirements.
Verification of financial controls The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial controls Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply is assessed and monitored to an extent which provides reasonable, but not with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the absolute, assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded, transactions assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner and that such and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
By Order of the Board Following the appointment of a head of Internal Audit in late 2002, a plan David Coker Secretary for internal audit visits for 2003 and 2004 was implemented during the year.
18 February 2004 Seven sites were visited during 2003.
The Directors monitor the process of internal audit and, having taken account of the above and having also reviewed the scope of the work carried out by the Groups external auditors, are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal financial control.
