CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code compliance Throughout the financial year ended 29 March 2003 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The following statement provides an outline on how the Group continues to apply the Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Directors The Board comprises eight directors, being the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive directors and three other non-executive directors.
Out of the four non-executive directors three are deemed to be independent.
Short biographies of each Board director are given on page 13.
There is a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and Dick Barfield has been nominated the senior independent non-executive director.
The Board met eleven times last year to manage the overall control of the Groups affairs with reference to the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
In addition the Board formally met separately once last year to discuss Group strategy.
A detailed agenda and comprehensive information pack is provided to directors in advance of each meeting.
The Board discusses and critically examines the strategy of the Group and approves short and medium-term plans, including demanding targets and budgets, for achieving this strategy.
In addition the Board approves the financial statements, dividend recommendations and risk management policies of the Group and reviews the terms of reference for the Board committees and delegated authorities.
All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs.
In particular, the non-executive directors have responsibility for ensuring that business strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
The directors act in the best long-term interests of the shareholders, whilst taking account of the interests of the employees, customers, suppliers and the communities within which the business operates.
The non-executive directors have been selected for their experience of different business areas.
All the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose appointment or removal is one of the matters reserved for the Boards decision.
The Board has established a procedure whereby any director may, in furtherance of his or her duties, take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Group to the Chief Executive and executive directors who, together with the members of senior management, implement Board policy and manage the business.
Board committees There are three main Board committees which meet regularly throughout the year.
These committees operate under terms of reference which set out authority and duties.
The nomination committee comprises the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
It is chaired by John Grieves.
The committee is responsible for the selection of executive and non-executive directors and proposals to the Board in respect of such appointments.
The role of the nomination committee ensures a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED All directors are given the opportunity to receive appropriate training on the first occasion that they are appointed to the Board and subsequently as necessary.
Under the articles of association one third of all directors shall retire by rotation each year and be eligible for reappointment.
Under this rule it remains a possibility that a director may serve for longer than three years and so the Board has formally minuted that the Combined Code will be followed in such situations.
The remuneration committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors and is chaired by John Grieves.
The Remuneration Report is presented to the shareholders on pages 25 to 32.
The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors and is chaired by Dick Barfield.
Three of the non-executives who serve on the committee are deemed independent.
Last year the committee met four times with the external auditors in attendance on three occasions.
Its duties include the review of the Groups accounting policies, financial and other reporting procedures, and the Groups internal financial controls.
The committee also reviews the scope and results of the audits, their cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The audit committee considers on an annual basis the continuing independence of New Looks external auditors.
This involves consideration of non-audit related services carried out during the year and the auditors own procedures to ensure that their objectivity and independence are not compromised.
During the financial year the non-audit related services provided by  were primarily in relation to tax consulting.
This followed a formal tendering process with the conclusion that  were considered best suited to perform these services.
Certain tax services are also provided by other firms.
Relations with shareholders The directors seek to build on a mutual understanding of objectives between the Board and institutional shareholders of the Company.
Regular communication with the shareholders also takes place through the interim and annual financial statements and via the trading statements that are issued by the Company.
This information is also available on our website at www.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders including a presentation on the business and its current trading position.
The chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As set out in the Notice of Meeting, a separate resolution has been proposed on each substantially separate issue, including the adoption of the annual report and financial statements.
All proxy votes received before the deadline will be counted and the level of proxies lodged together with the balance for and against each resolution indicated.
Corporate social responsibility CSR policy We believe that sound social, ethical and environmental practices make good business sense and that these are critical to New Looks ongoing success, as well as to the recruitment, motivation and retention of talented people.
Our CSR activities are recognised through New Looks inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Building on our existing work on CSR, we have adopted a coordinated approach through the development of an overarching CSR policy, signed off by the Board, under the responsibility of Alastair Miller, Group Finance Director.
The policy states, We recognise that our business activities have an impact on people and the environment through our supply chains, distribution network, stores and offices.
We have a responsibility to be mindful of our social, ethical and environmental impacts and we are committed to measuring, monitoring and improving these as an integral part of our core business activities.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board has embedded CSR into its governance framework and risk processes.
The risk management committee meets regularly to identify and manage risks and opportunities including those arising from social, ethical and environmental issues, and to update risk registers.
The risk register is then presented quarterly to the Board for discussion.
We have engaged in internal stakeholder dialogue by convening a cross-functional CSR working group, on which all areas of the business are represented.
This group has considered New Looks impact on customers, employees, suppliers, the people who make our products, the communities around our stores and offices and the environment, and the expectations of our shareholders.
The group has examined New Looks activities in each of these areas and is developing a coordinated CSR action plan and targets to drive forward performance.
This will include dialogue with external stakeholders.
The group will coordinate CSR activities across human resources management, supply chain, ethical sourcing, environmental management, health & safety and community involvement and we will report on progress against targets next year.
As part of this work New Look has developed an environmental policy which was signed off by the Board in January 2003, under the responsibility of Alastair Miller, Group Finance Director.
A cross-functional task force has been convened to develop management systems focusing on seven key impact areas: energy use, waste, activities of suppliers, packaging, transport, timber paper and toxic chemicals.
During the coming financial year action plans will be implemented to measure and improve New Looks performance in each of these areas.
New Looks work on ethical trading has continued throughout the year.
The top 20 clothing and top 20 accessories suppliers produce 63% of New Looks product.
55% of their manufacturing units have now been assessed against our ethical aims policy as have a further 178 non-top 20 manufacturing units.
In total, this represents 36% of our manufacturing supply base.
Many of these assessments have been carried out in partnership with local organisations and Non-governmental Organisations.
This has enabled us to understand the prevailing issues and to develop action plans for improving the working conditions in our supply chains.
A five-year plan has been developed setting out the objective of actively improving the health, safety and working conditions in the factories from which New Look buys by: ensuring that we only buy from suppliers who are willing to work towards our ethical aims engaging our suppliers in a process of continuous improvement providing technical support, information and contacts to our suppliers measuring improvements.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that: there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks this process has been in place for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2003 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidelines for directors on the Combined Code.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The key risk management activities are: Risk management committee A risk management committee chaired by the Chief Executive is responsible for the operation of the risk management process and meets at least three times a year.
It reviews corporate and departmental risks, corporate social responsibility, health and safety and insurance.
Corporate risks The Board and members of senior management review the significant corporate risks affecting the Group each year at a corporate risk workshop.
A corporate risk register is produced which includes appropriate control strategies and accountabilities.
Every quarter the register is updated and reviewed by the risk management committee and main Board.
Department risks In addition risk registers are also produced for the French operations and UK departments.
These are discussed and updated with the executive directors on a quarterly basis and reported to the risk management committee.
Financial control The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board.
Daily information is produced for executive directors.
Monthly results with budget comparison are produced for the Board, which it reviews and determines appropriate action.
Internal audit Internal audit has a major role in supporting the risk management process.
Through their programme of work, they provide assurance on control effectiveness.
Internal audit has direct access to the audit committee.
During the year the audit committee of the Board, comprising the non-executive directors: Met four times with the internal and external auditors attending by invitation on three occasions: Received and considered the corporate risk register and other reports relating to the monitoring and adequacy of the Groups internal controls, the suitability of its accounting policies and reporting matters arising from the external auditors work: Made recommendations to the Board on matters regarding the scope, authority and resources of internal audit.
The chairman of the audit committee reported to the Board following each committee meeting.
The Board has carried out an annual assessment of internal controls by considering reports from the audit committee, members of senior management and risk management committee and has also taken account of events since 29 March 2003.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit and loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors consider that they have selected suitable accounting policies, and applied them consistently, made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent, and followed applicable accounting standards.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have a responsibility to ensure that proper accounting records are kept, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Amanda Stephenson Company Secretary 29 May 2003
