NEXT PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code compliance The Group has complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
The Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for major policy decisions whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees and officers including the Chief Executive.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, including significant items of capital expenditure, investments, treasury and dividend policy.
The Board is responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and substantial variances investigated.
Forecasts of each half years anticipated results are revised and reviewed monthly.
Certain other important matters are subject to monthly reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including treasury operations and capital expenditure.
The Board includes four non-executive directors who bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to the Board.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Further committees are charged with carrying out day to day management of the Group.
In addition to formal meetings, open and frequent discussions are held between all directors and a considerable amount of information is provided to non-executive directors on an ad hoc basis.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Audit Committee The Committee has written terms of reference which deal clearly with its authority and duties.
It comprises four independent non-executive directors including the Senior non-executive director.
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings at least three times per year and consults with external auditors and senior management.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Committee also considers financial reporting and reviews the Groups accounting policies relating thereto.
In particular, major accounting issues of a subjective nature are discussed by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Committee consists of four independent non-executive directors including the Senior non-executive director.
The Committees objective is to review and set a competitive level of remuneration for the executive directors.
A Directors Remuneration Report is included in this Annual Report.
Nomination Committee The Committee consists of four independent non-executive directors including the Senior non-executive director.
Chief Executive The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is required to report to the Board at each meeting all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
Management delegation The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to day management of the business to operational management drawn from executive directors and other senior management who have responsibility for the respective areas.
The most important management meeting is the weekly NEXT Brand trading meeting which considers the performance and development of the NEXT Brand through its different distribution channels.
It considers all business aspects of risk management in respect of the NEXT Brand including sales, property, product, systems, warehousing and personnel.
Key performance indicators are monitored daily and weekly.
Risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process.
It has delegated responsibility for implemention of the risk management process to the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward.
The Board confirms that it has again carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control covering financial, operational, compliance and other controls and risk management.
This includes identifying, evaluating, prioritising and revising risks, determining a control strategy for each significant risk and consideration of how each risk might impact on the twelve NEXT PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE achievement of the business objectives.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and is in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous process for the Board and has been considered on a regular basis during the year.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business.
During the year the Board addressed the business risks which had been identified as key, including a review of these risks which has taken into account any changes in circumstances over the period.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is appropriate to the size and business risks of the Group.
The Board considers that the Groups hierarchical structure of management and timely and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators provide the early warning mechanisms necessary to identify any material areas of concern.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct have been implemented in respect of specific major risk areas.
Through these procedures the management of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board will continue to enhance risk management and internal control procedures wherever practical.
External auditors Ernst & Young LLP have reported to the Audit Committee that in their professional judgement, they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee has reviewed this statement and concurs with its conclusion.
Personal use of company assets The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed that there has been no improper personal use of company assets by directors or other employees.
Policies are in place to ensure proper approval procedures are applied to expense claims and that these are in accordance with service agreements.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the level of benefits in kind provided to executive directors.
Relations with shareholders The Board acknowledges that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report and Accounts, yearly and half yearly announcements and regular trading updates to the Stock Exchange.
Shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The directors report that having reviewed current performance and forecasts they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
