Corporate governance statement of compliance The Board of Pennon Group Plc is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for those standards.
This Statement sets out how the principles of corporate All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship governance contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code of the Groups affairs with the Non-executive Directors having a attached to the UK Listing Authority Rules are applied by the particular responsibility for ensuring strategies proposed for the Company in practice.
Throughout the year, the Company has development of the business are reviewed critically.
The Noncomplied with the current provisions of the Combined Code.
executive Directors also critically examine the operational and financial performance of the Group and fulfil a key role in The Board corporate accountability through their membership of various Committees of the Board.
In accordance with Group policy the During the year the Board of Directors comprised three tasks of giving detailed consideration to specified matters, to Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
Ms D A monitoring executive actions and to assessing reward are Nichols was subsequently appointed a Non-executive Director allocated to the Board Committees as follows: on 12 June 2003.
The Non-executive Directors are regarded as independent and Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield was the appointed Audit Committee senior Non-executive Director.
Following the annual general meeting on 31 July 2003 Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield and Mr A T The Audit Committee, consisting of Non-executive Directors, Fletcher will retire from the Board.
The Board is to appoint a Mr A T Fletcher and Ms K M H Mortimer under the further Non-executive Director shortly.
The biographies on page chairmanship of Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield, met four times during 16 demonstrate a broad range of business and financial the year.
Ms D A Nichols was subsequently appointed a experience and there is a clear separation in the roles of member of the Committee on 12 June 2003.
Its Terms of Chairman and the Chief Executives of South West Water Reference cover the points recommended by the Combined Limited and Viridor Waste Limited.
All Directors are subject to Code including, through the work undertaken by the external re-election at least every three years.
auditors and internal audit section of the Company, ensuring the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial and operating During the year the Board met monthly, except in August and controls and reporting systems of the Group: considering overall with an additional special meeting in April 2002 and at each budgetary controls and executive delegations: considering the meeting all Directors were present with the exception of Mr D J annual review undertaken by the Group of the effectiveness of Dupont, Mr A T Fletcher and Ms K M H Mortimer each on one the system of internal control to ensure compliance by the occasion.
The Board has adopted a Group policy which includes Group with the Group Risk Management Policy: approving a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and which annually a rolling three year audit plan for the Group: considering recognises that the Boards capacity is limited.
The Board has and recommending to the Board the appointment and approving therefore delegated more detailed consideration of certain the remuneration of external auditors of the Company and matters to Board Committees, to the subsidiary boards of South subsidiaries: discussing with the external auditors the scope of West Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited and to the their audit and considering the reports of the external auditors: Executive Directors and Company Secretary as appropriate.
and considering matters, including those relating to unethical or Recognising this policy, the matters reserved to the Board include fiduciary activities, which Directors may wish to raise with the the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee pays particular major items of capital expenditure, authority levels for other attention to the independence and objectivity of the auditors and expenditure, risk management and approval of the Strategic Plan has established a policy for the engagement of the auditors for and annual operating budgets.
The Board operates by receiving non-audit work by the Group.
In addition, the Companys current written reports circulated in advance from the Executive Directors auditors ensure that the senior partner responsible for the and the Company Secretary on matters within their respective external audit of the Group remains responsible for such audit business areas within the Group.
Under the guidance of the for no more than seven years and that there is an independent Chairman, all matters before the Board are discussed openly, and concurring review partner of the auditors who is involved in if necessary, specialist advice is received on occasions from other planning and in the reviewing of the final accounts of the senior executives within the Group, or external advisers.
Company and also any critical matters that may be identified in Directors have access to the advice and services of the the audit.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are contained in Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure note 3 to the Financial statements on page 40. whereby Directors, in order to fulfil their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed on a regular basis.
24 Pennon Group Plc The Group Director of Finance attends the Committee by business objectives of the Group.
All business units within the invitation and the Companys auditors have the right of direct Group apply the policy in accordance with an annual timetable, access to the Committee without the presence of any Executive which commences with the setting of objectives as part of the Director.
This is followed by a full risk and control assessment Remuneration Committee undertaken by the management of each business unit to identify The Remuneration Committee comprised three Non-executive financial and non-financial risks to achieve the objectives.
Each Directors during the year, these being Mr A T Fletcher, who business unit management committee then receives as part of chaired the Committee, Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield and Ms K M H its regular management reports an assessment of key risks Mortimer.
Ms D A Nichols was subsequently appointed a against corporate objectives.
The Board at each meeting member of the Committee on 12 June 2003.
The Committee receives from Executive Directors details of any new high level met on eight occasions during the year and is responsible for risks identified and how they are to be managed, together with determining the remuneration and terms of employment of the details of any changes to existing risks and their management.
Executive Directors and Senior Management of the Group.
The boards of South West Water and Viridor Waste also receive Members of the Remuneration Committee do not participate in at each meeting similar reports in respect of their own areas of decisions concerning their own remuneration.
Finally, all senior managers certify on an annual remuneration report, which also provides more information on basis that they have established effective controls to manage the activities of the Remuneration Committee, appears on risks and to operate in compliance with legislation and Group pages 17 to 23. procedures.
All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of effective control and risk management is embedded Nomination Committee within the organisation and that the Group is in a position to react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
The Nomination Committee was chaired by Mr K G Harvey and also comprised Sir Geoffrey Chipperfield and Mr A T Fletcher.
Internal financial control Ms K M H Mortimer was subsequently appointed a member of The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal the Committee on 24 April 2003 and Ms D A Nichols was financial control.
A system can only provide reasonable and not appointed a member on 12 June 2003.
It meets as and when absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
required to select and recommend to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-executive There is an established internal control framework which Directors.
During the year it met on one occasion to consider comprises: the appointment of a Non-executive Director.
a a clearly defined structure which delegates authority, Environment Committee responsibility and accountability, including responsibility for internal financial control, to management of operating units: The Environment Committee is chaired by Mr B A O Hewett a co-opted member and former Non-executive Director of the b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function with an Company and also comprises the Chief Executives of South annual budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also West Water Limited and Viridor Waste Limited.
It met four monitors monthly achieved results and updated forecasts for times during the year and is responsible for reviewing and the year against budget: monitoring the environmental and social policies of Group c documented financial control procedures: managers of companies, their achievement of environmental and social operating units are required to confirm annually that they have objectives and targets and considering the Groups annual adequate financial controls in operation and to report all material Environmental and Social Report.
areas of financial risk: compliance with procedures is reviewed by the Companys internal audit function: and Internal control d an investment appraisal process for evaluating proposals for Wider aspects of internal control all major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with defined The Board confirms that it continues to apply its established levels of approval and a system for monitoring the progress of procedures which were introduced in 2000 to implement the capital projects.
guidance Internal Control : Guidance for Directors on the The Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation and Combined Code.
As part of these procedures, the Board has a effectiveness of this framework.
formalised risk management policy which provides for the identification of key risks in relation to the achievement of the Pennon Group Plc 25 Corporate governance statement of compliance Treasury activities Relations with shareholders The Groups treasury operations are managed in accordance The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional with policies established by the Board.
Major transactions are shareholders and has a well developed investor relations individually approved by the Board.
During the year meetings with institutional reported to the Board and are subject to review by internal shareholders were attended by the Group Director of Finance audit.
and the Companys Investor Relations Manager and, on certain occasions, the Chairman, the Chief Executive of South West Financial instruments are used to raise finance and to manage Water Limited and the Chief Executive of Viridor Waste Limited risk.
The Group does not engage in speculative activity.
The Board encourages the participation of shareholders at the annual general meeting and complies with The principal financial risks faced by the Group relate to interest the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of relations rate and counterparty risk.
Further details are included in note with shareholders.
27 to the financial statements on page 56.
Going concern By Order of the Board The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries, that K D Woodier, Company Secretary the Company and the Group have adequate resources to 26 June 2003 continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
In preparing the financial statements, appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
All relevant accounting standards which the Directors consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
