DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Pilkington plc present their Annual Report and the EMPLOYMENT AND PRACTICE audited financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2003.
At 31st March 2003 there were 25,200 people working for the Group worldwide, of whom 62 per cent were employed in Europe, 20 per cent in The Group profit and loss account for the year is set out on page 18 and North America, eight per cent in South America and ten per cent in in the accompanying notes.
The Groups human resources policies and practices are designed to PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS secure the goodwill, motivation, commitment and contribution of all The principal activities and operations of the Group are described on pages employees to the aims and success of the business.
The Groups policy 12 to 19 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
The statement has been distributed to all Group companies.
principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 52 and the principal The Group has a long established and well recognised policy of joint ventures and associates in notes 17 and 18 to the financial statements.
encouraging employee involvement through communication and consultation Further information, including details of important events affecting the on a wide range of issues.
Every opportunity is taken to invite employees business of the Group, its joint ventures and associates, is given in the to participate in multi-disciplinary quality and process improvement Chairmans Statement and the Finance Directors Review.
The Group also makes wide use of employee surveys.
The Group publishes an international magazine, Pilkington Focus, which RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS communicates the Groups interim and final results and exchanges news on Profit on ordinary activities before taxation and exceptional items was Group businesses.
The Group has also introduced on its intranet a Group 144 million 2002 173 million as re-presented.
Details of the electronic news channel, Focus Online.
The Group intranet provides up to re-presentation are disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.
The date information on objectives, performance and activities in the Group.
profit on ordinary activities before taxation and after exceptional items A European Forum is well established, at which senior management was 140 million 2002 161 million.
The profit attributable to the and employee representatives from the Groups European operations meet shareholders of Pilkington plc was 68 million 2002 74 million.
annually to exchange information and views on the business.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.25p More information on employment issues is set out on pages 27 and 28 per ordinary share which, taken with the interim dividend of 1.75p per of the Annual Review.
ordinary share, makes a total dividend for the year of 5.0p per ordinary share 2002 5.0p.
Payment of the recommended final dividend, if EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES approved at the annual general meeting, will be made on 1st August 2003 Pilkington is committed to a policy of equal opportunities in all its to shareholders registered on 13th June 2003. companies and to meeting its obligations to offer employment opportunities to disabled people and people becoming disabled during their employment.
SHARE CAPITAL A policy statement has been distributed to all Group companies.
At 31st March 2003 there were 1,260 million ordinary shares of 50p each in issue 2002 1,254 million shares.
TRAINING Options were granted in the year to employees and directors under The Group has a people development policy committing it to the training, the companys share option schemes in respect of 9.4 million shares retraining and continuous development of all employees in order to develop 2002 6 million shares.
their full potential and to achieve a flexible, skilled and informed Further details of changes in the share capital are shown in note 32 workforce, at all levels, which is committed to the aims of the business.
A policy statement has been communicated to all Group companies.
The Group has a range of management training and development SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS initiatives, co-ordinated from the UK, which are focused on developing the At 28th May 2003, the company had been notified of the following interests high performing managers required to deliver the Groups strategy.
These in its ordinary share capital: initiatives provide development in general management and in the functional skills required to achieve world-class levels of performance.
of shares % of issued millions share capital Within the individual businesses of the Group, training is provided to as notified meet the broad range of needs of all the workforce and the specific needs Nippon Sheet Glass Co. Ltd 256.11 20.59 of each particular business.
38.36 3.04 Increasing use is being made of e-learning techniques to ensure training Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 37.71 3.00 is delivered in a timely and cost effective manner.
There is also a continuing high level of training devoted to e-business skills to ensure employees can RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT use new computer and communication technologies to full effect in Research and development expenditure for the Group amounted to reducing costs and improving the quality of service provided to customers.
35 million for the year to 31st March 2003 2002 36 million.
Just under half of this expenditure was in the UK, primarily at the Pilkington European CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Technical Centre at Lathom, Lancashire, and the remainder at the Groups The Group has a Code of Conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour R&D facilities at sites in the USA and Europe.
expected of the Group and all who work for the Group, in their relationships PILKING PILKINGT TON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 ON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 1 1
