Premier Farnell plc Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2003 46 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the principles identied in the Combined Code are applied by the Company.
To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
The Board confirms that the Company now complies with all of the In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specic matters.
In addition, individual Directors After the end of the accounting period the Board nominated the Companys meet with senior management and are encouraged to make periodic site Deputy Chairman as the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The visits, including overseas where appropriate.
Senior managers are regularly Companys Remuneration Committee composition has complied with the invited to Board meetings and make business presentations.
Combined Code since Mr Mandels retirement from the Board and the Committee in June 2002.
Potential appointments of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors to the Board are considered by the Nominations Committee.
The Directors Nominations Committee consults with Executive Directors when The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, five other considering appointments and a range of candidates is considered before Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
All of the Nonany appointment is made.
The Remuneration Committee will consider any Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
remuneration package before it is offered to a potential appointee.
Biographies of the Board members appear on page 27.
These indicate Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions the high level and broad range of experience that they possess.
of the Companys articles of association, to retire and seek election by Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is constantly kept shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The articles also require under review and provided where necessary.
that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every three years.
The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the Group through the development of a strategy designed to create Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys shareholder value.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing on and exercises control over the performance of each operating company pages 40 to 45. within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring performance against those targets.
Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and the recommendations have a direct bearing on his own remuneration clearly dened.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive package.
The details of each Executive Directors individual package are management of the Groups business while the Chairman, who has no xed by the Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
executive management responsibilities, runs the Board.
Communication with Stakeholders The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as required.
The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including its stakeholders.
major capital expenditure, significant investments or disposals and treasury policy.
In certain areas, specic responsibility is delegated to There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well committees of the Board within dened terms of reference.
as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
In 1999, the Company introduced quarterly financial reporting in order to improve The principal terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations the level of information available to all shareholders.
All Company and Organisation and Management Development Committees are set out announcements are published on the Companys web-site, together with on page 47.
The membership of the Committees appears on page 27. presentation material.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the professional advice at the Companys expense if necessary in the Companys Annual General Meeting and the Group Chief Executive performance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access which every makes a business presentation summarising the progress of the Group Premier Farnell plc Corporate Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2003 47 during the year.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations The Company is subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Committees are available to take questions at the meeting.
2002 as they apply to foreign private issuers.
This US legislation requires, amongst other things, annual certications to be included within, or As discussed in the Directors Report, employee communication is given attached to, the Companys annual report on Form 20-F, which is led high priority.
This has included the establishment of a European Works with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
As part of the process Council.
for ensuring that such certications can be made, a new executive management committee, the Disclosure and Risk Committee, has been Going Concern formed.
The Disclosure and Risk Committee has subsumed within its After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that terms of reference the functions previously carried out by the Risk the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Committee, as well as taking responsibility for reviewing disclosures made operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they by the Company to regulators and the investment community.
As part of continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
this expanded role, the Disclosure and Risk Committee monitors and reviews disclosure and risk management processes and reports to the Audit and Internal Control Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers these reports, The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the alongside other reports from the internal audit department and the Groups financial and other systems and controls and its financial reporting external auditors, to arrive at a balanced assessment of control procedures.
In fullling this role, the Committee receives and reviews work effectiveness across the Group.
carried out by the internal and external auditors and their findings.
The Companys internal audit department works to an annual programme The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so that the developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as covering specic Board can reach its own informed view on control effectiveness.
matters arising during the year.
The statement of the Directors responsibility in relation to the accounts The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the appears on page 74. internal and external audit functions under review.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis, Summary Terms of Reference of Board Committees with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to 2nd February 2003 and Audit information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred appear in note 4 Review the Companys financial and other systems and controls and to the Financial Statements.
The non-audit fees were paid principally in the Companys financial reporting.
respect of assurance work including taxation and are considered by the Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors.
Remuneration The Committee has recently resolved that the external auditors Make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of appointment will be subject to biannual review.
The senior audit partner at executive remuneration.
Determine remuneration packages for the Groups external auditors is rotated every five years.
During the year Executive Directors and other Senior executives.
the Committee also adopted a formal policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
This policy prohibits the provision of certain Nominations services and requires that others are subject to prior approval.
Make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors.
Keep the composition of the Board under review.
Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the Combined Code provisions on internal control.
Organisation and Management Development Review the Groups policies for ensuring that its management resource The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal at senior levels across the Group and the organisation and development controls and risk management.
The Audit Committee reviews and of such resource are compatible with the longer term needs of the monitors the systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board, while Group.
responsibility for the system rests with the Executive Directors.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks.
However, any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives.
