12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance The company has established procedures and policies to ensure compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, issued in June 1998, on Corporate Governance laid out in the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The company has complied with these provisions for the entire reporting period except to the extent specified.
Reports by Sir Robert Smith and Sir Derek Higgs have led to changes to the UK Combined Code, which apply to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Premier is already largely compliant with the provisions of the new edition of the Combined Code.
In 2004, the company will seek to identify those areas where current practice differs from the requirements of the new code.
Premier will either make appropriate changes to ensure compliance or will explain to shareholders why it considers it is in the companys best interest not to have done so.
The Board The Board of Directors held seven full board meetings and two meetings of the independent directors in 2003.
The Board retains full and effective control over the group and monitors executive management.
It is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, corporate overhead costs and consideration of significant financing matters.
No one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairmans role is non-executive and during 2003 the Chief Executive was supported by one experienced executive director responsible for finance, corporate performance and investor relations.
Two further executive directors were appointed in December 2003 with responsibility for operations, development, production, exploration and business development.
There are formal and transparent procedures for the appointment of new directors.
The Board has a further five non-executive directors with wide experience in commerce, as can be seen from their career histories in this report.
In compliance with the Combined Code, Mr J R W Orange, who is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is identified as the companys senior independent non-executive director.
Matters reserved for Board decision are clearly laid down, including the appointment of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and rules are applied.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
Details of the executive directors service contracts are laid out on page 17.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association one third of directors retire each year, with their re-appointment being subject to the approval of shareholders.
This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years, in addition any director of the age of 70 or over who would not otherwise be required to retire, must retire by rotation.
All new directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Names submitted to shareholders for re-election are accompanied by biographical details.
The non-executive directors bring independent judgment to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
Non-executive directors comprise over one half of the Board.
Of these, Sir David John, Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray and J R W Orange are considered to be wholly independent.
Whilst Mr Alizai, as a result of receiving a consultancy fee from the company, might be considered not strictly to fall within this definition, the Board considers that this is outweighed by the range of experience and contribution he makes to the company.
Selection of suitable non-executive directors is a matter for Board approval following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
Board committees The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee comprises only non-executive directors.
Its members are Messrs R V Emerson Chairman, S J Dobbie, I Gray and J R W Orange.
The Audit and Risk Committee meets not less than three times a year.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the groups external auditors and management.
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the half year and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit and Risk Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit.
The Audit and Risk Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least three times a year and determines the remuneration of the executive directors and senior employees.
The level of remuneration is sufficient to attract and retain directors and an element of the directors remuneration package is linked to corporate performance.
No director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
Its members are Messrs J R W Orange Chairman, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson and I Gray.
Full details of the directors remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 24.
The Nomination Committee has been established to consider the composition of the Board in relation to the appointment of new directors.
Its members are Sir David John Chairman, Messrs S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, I Gray, C J A Jamieson and J R W Orange.
The Committee met once in 2003.
The make up of members of the Audit and Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the Combined Code.
13 Internal control The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal control.
The internal control system is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Internal control systems in any group are designed to meet the particular needs of that group and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control required by the Combined Code provision D. 2.1 are as follows these procedures have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts 2003 : Management of Business Risks An ongoing process, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This is based on each business unit and corporate function producing a risk matrix which identifies the key business risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
The executive directors receive assurance from the business units and functional management through the completion of annual declarations confirming compliance with the groups policies and procedures and risk management processes.
These processes are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It is accepted that the systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Premier has adopted a consistent framework model for application across the group and an annual report is produced on compliance with that model and with the group risk management process.
The report is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Monitoring A comprehensive control manual is in force which regulates a wide range of day to day activities both in the UK and overseas offices including environmental controls, health and safety regulations and political risks.
The application of internal control procedures is reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by head office staff.
Audits are carried out by partners in joint ventures from time to time.
A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the group.
This process is designed to provide assurance to the Board that the company is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
The report of each review is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
During 2003, the key business risks identified were formally discussed by the Executive Committee on a semi-annual basis.
This process will continue during 2004.
The Board will receive regular reports on any major problems that have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Management Structure The Board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
The executive directors together constitute the Executive Committee which normally meets fortnightly.
Corporate Accounting Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of the group Delegation of Authority manual which sets out, inter alia, authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
Budgetary Process There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board covering expenditure, cash flow, the profit and loss account and balance sheet.
Monthly operational and financial results are reported against budget, and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
Investment Appraisal The group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure.
These include authority levels, commitment records and reporting, annual budget and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
The authority of the directors is required for key treasury matters including changes to equity and loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy including hedging, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
Comprehensive due diligence work is carried out if a business or an asset is to be acquired.
During 2003, the Board reviewed the groups system of internal control and is satisfied that all the controls in place are adequate to provide reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes are made to internal control systems to capture any new risks or exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the business environment.
Going concern After making enquiries and in the light of the groups loan facilities, the group budget for 2004 and the medium-term plans, the directors have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report & Accounts and the Interim Report which are sent to shareholders.
The company has also produced a separate corporate brochure in 2003 and 2004 highlighting Premiers capabilities and business aspirations, and both documents are available to all shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, and enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the group.
The company also maintains a website www.
com which provides detailed information on the groups activities.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2003
