co. uk Corporate Governance Your Board continues its commitment to achieving and maintaining the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
Good corporate governance means effective control through a balanced Board based on clear lines of responsibility with adequate control mechanisms providing appropriate checks and balances, all operating within a clearly understood and effective regime of accountability.
Best practice in corporate governance is evidenced by The Combined Code and companies are required by The Stock Exchange to review in their Annual Reports their application of the principles and provisions of The Combined Code.
Companies are required to report on their application of and compliance with The Combined Code The Code.
The Code, which was introduced in 1998 has been superseded by a revised Combined Code The Revised Code which takes effect for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
The directors believe that the company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of The Combined Code throughout the period under review: where appropriate, further action will be taken to ensure compliance with The Revised Code in 2004.
1 The Board The Board, which currently comprises five executive and four independent non-executive directors normally meets ten times a year.
Information of an appropriate quality is made available to the Board in a timely manner to assist it in performing its duties.
The Agenda for each meeting will always as a minimum include the following core elements: the Chief Executives review of the business and relevant current developments that affect the business, the Group Finance Directors review of financial performance, reports from the other executive directors and a review of shareholder activity and major property issues: additional items will be presented as required.
The Board has a specific schedule of matters reserved for its decision covering the approval of financial statements, long-term objectives and commercial strategy, treasury policy, health & safety policy, major capital investment and all matters concerning the maintenance and development of good corporate governance practice.
The Board attributes particular importance to the concept of impartial input and challenge in its proceedings.
This is best achieved through the offices of the non-executive directors, and for them to be properly effective in this regard the Board considers it vital that the non-executives must be independent on appointment and must remain so throughout their tenure of office.
Benchmarking each non-executive director against the definitions of independence formulated in the Higgs Review, the Board is satisfied that each of its non-executive directors is of independent status.
Mr. M. J. Allen is the Senior Independent Director.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined and encapsulated in the Boards Corporate Governance Manual.
The Chairman is responsible for the smooth and effective operation of the Board and for periodically undertaking an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its members and its committees.
The Chief Executives function is to run the business and to implement the decisions of the Board having due regard to the long-term interests of the Shareholders and the employees.
In particular the Chief Executive will formulate and keep under review proposals for the strategic direction of the business, ensure that appropriate operational resources are available and kept regularly under review, promote the company to the investing community and potential investors and account to the Board for the financial performance of the company.
There is an established procedure for any of the directors both executive and non-executive to obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
A facility is in place for any new appointee to the Board, and any current director, to receive appropriate training: all newly appointed directors will be required to attend a comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
In line with best practice the Board has established a procedure to enable it to undertake an evaluation of its own performance and where necessary to instigate appropriate remedial action: the procedure involves both external and internal assessment and evaluation.
The process comprises two parts, the first, facilitated by the corporate brokers to the company, will seek the views of the major investors and potential major investors in relation to the delivery of shareholder value, the strategic management of the company, perception of corporate governance practice and the quality of the Board membership.
The second part of the process will focus more specifically on each director and, facilitated by the Chairman and Mrs. A. V. M. Palmer, is based on a confidential questionnaire approach which seeks to determine the appropriateness of the skills and knowledge base of the Board, the quality of Board discussion and the contribution of each individual member.
The company operates a Whistleblowing policy and procedure whereby employees can in confidence report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place or if health & safety standards are being compromised.
Areas that are addressed by this procedure cover financial malpractice, criminal activities, dangers to health & safety, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
One third of the directors are required to submit themselves for re-election each year and all directors will have submitted themselves for re-election every three years.
Newly appointed directors will be subject to election by the shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 37 www.
co. uk Corporate Governance continued All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who administers the Board and Board Committee Meetings and ensures that relevant procedures and regulations are adhered to.
Four principal committees are maintained and operated by the Board: the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Health & Safety Committees.
i Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises four members all of whom are independent non-executive directors: the quorum necessary for the transaction of business is three members.
To assist it in performing its duties the Committee may invite other members of the Board, the Group Internal Auditor, any member of the companys senior management team and any representative of the companys external auditors to attend its meetings: however no invitee has any right of attendance.
The Committee will as a minimum meet three times a year.
Notwithstanding the recommendations in the Guidance on Audit Committees The Smith Guidance that the Chairman of the Board should not be a member of the Committee, your Board believes that the Board Chairmans membership of the Committee is wholly consistent with his responsibility to uphold and promote the highest standards of integrity and probity.
As a qualified accountant and finance director of United Utilities PLC, the Board considers Mr. S. G. Batey to have appropriate current financial knowledge and experience and in consequence appointed him as Chairman of the Committee effective from 1 January 2004.
For the year to 31 December 2003 the Committee was chaired by Mr. M. J. Allen.
The Committees terms of reference require it to monitor the integrity of all the companys financial statements and any other statements which may be issued relating to the companys financial performance or financial standing: this review will include an assessment of financial reporting judgments applied.
As an essential component of its work the Committee will review and report to the Board on the companys internal controls and risk management systems, including risk transfer and risk retention.
Summarised Internal Audit reports are reviewed by the Committee which will report to the Board on action being taken to address relevant internal audit findings: the Committee will monitor the effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions and will satisfy itself as to the continuing independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
ii Remuneration Committee Full details of the work of the Committee appear in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 36. iii Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises five members, three of which at least are independent non-executive directors of the company and one the Chief Executive.
With effect from 1 January 2004, Mrs. A. V. M. Palmer was appointed Chairman of the Committee.
As a minimum the Committee will meet twice yearly and is responsible for keeping under regular review the structure, size and operation of the Board and for forming an assessment and making appropriate recommendations regarding the resourcing of the Board.
Where vacancies arise the Committee will, in consultation with the Chief Executive, identify the particular skill set, personal attributes and characteristics that are perceived as necessary to fulfil the role and will produce an appropriate job description and will be directly involved in the whole of the recruitment process.
In the process leading to the appointment of Mr. S. G. Batey to the Board, Spencer Stuart were engaged to assist the Committee in its work.
The Committee is required to monitor and review the succession planning process and has the responsibility together with the Chairman of the Board for the effective application of the Board evaluation procedure.
iv Health & Safety Committee The Committee, chaired by the Boards non-executive Chairman Mr. W. G. Cooper, is responsible to the Board for assuring adequacy and effectiveness in the application of the overall health, safety and environmental strategies of the Group.
The Committee meets four times a year and membership comprises the Board Chairman, a number of executive directors, the Group Health, Safety & Environmental Manager and senior managers from the Groups businesses.
The assessment of the Groups health, safety and environmental policy and practices will be measured against the objective of providing continued protection to the public, employees and contractors from hazards arising from the Groups activities.
The Board firmly believes that the effective way to manage health, safety and environmental issues is to ensure that safety and risk management are embedded in line management culture: it is the responsibility of the Committee to demonstrate the continued commitment of the Board to the effective management of health, safety and environmental issues through appropriate communication with and through the businesses.
38 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk 2 Relations with Shareholders The Board has for many years considered the continuation of a dialogue with the major institutional investors to be a very important activity in the companys development.
There can be little doubt that wherever practicable continuing clear communications with the institutional investors is a positive and mutually beneficial exercise.
It is your Boards intention to ensure that these arrangements, subject to any statutory or regulatory limitations, continue and are developed in a way designed to be helpful and constructive both to the company and the major investors.
A procedure has been established for the non-executive directors to receive direct feedback from the companys stockbroker, Merrill Lynch, of the investing communitys perception of the Boards performance and strategy.
Meetings with Merrill Lynch in this regard are held privately with no executive director being present or entitled to attend.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit, Nomination and Health & Safety Committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will include, following each resolution, the provision to the meeting of the number of proxy votes submitted in respect of each resolution.
3 Accountability and Audit Companies are required to report to shareholders that they have conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The review extends beyond financial controls to encompass operational and compliance control and risk management.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
Whilst no system can provide absolute guarantees and protection against material loss, the systems are designed to give the directors reasonable assurance that problems can be identified promptly and remedial action taken as appropriate.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness on an ongoing basis of the system of internal control for the accounting period under review.
The key features of the internal control system are: a Organisation Structure The structure of the organisation is so designed to minimise as far as possible the complexity of the reporting arrangements commensurate with the commercial demands made on the Group.
The structure focuses on the core businesses of the Group, with an executive director of Arriva plc having direct line management responsibility for one or more of these activities.
Stringent reporting procedures are applied to ensure that performance is closely monitored so that effective and prompt action can be taken if the need arises.
Certain of the Groups key functions including company secretarial, legal, taxation, internal audit, treasury, insurance and health and safety are undertaken centrally.
b Financial Reporting The Group operates a comprehensive financial control system with each operating divisions performance being closely monitored against both budget and prior period performance through regular monthly meetings with an executive director of Arriva plc.
Monthly management accounts are prepared for consideration by the Board as a whole.
c Internal Audit The internal control systems are comprehensively supported by the Group Internal Audit Department.
Group Internal Audit is responsible for advising all levels of management, and the Board of Directors through the Audit Committee, on the quality of the operational systems of control for all parts of the Group.
This review and appraisal function does not relieve line management of its responsibility for effective control.
Group Internal Audit functions by conducting independent appraisals in a professional manner leading to reports detailing findings and agreed actions.
Group Internal Audit undertakes annual financial reviews of the balance sheets of all of the Groups material trading subsidiaries and engages in a cycle of operational and risk reviews both on scheduled and random bases: the Group Internal Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The Group Internal Audit Department is staffed by appropriately qualified and experienced auditors: the Group Internal Auditor and the departmental managers are all chartered accountants.
d Risk Assessment and Risk Control An essential element of good internal control is the continual process of risk assessment and the implementation of appropriate controls designed to eliminate or mitigate the effects of the crystallisation of identified major risks.
The approach adopted by the directors involves a process which is designed to encourage divisional operational staff to critically examine their responsibilities and identify those risks which are of such a nature that their crystallisation would have a material impact on their business.
In order for this process to succeed it is essential that ownership of risk awareness, risk identification and risk control is fully embraced by line management as an essential ingredient of its normal responsibilities.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 39 www.
co. uk Corporate Governance continued In implementing its risk assessment programme the Board had devolved to the Audit Committee the task of implementing and maintaining an appropriate risk assessment and control programme and works closely with the Group Internal Auditor in engaging in a formal review of the key business risks to the Group.
In the development of this programme there are a number of fundamental issues that the Board has identified as being absolutely critical to the success and effectiveness of the risk management and control programme, and in formulating its approach has structured the programme around the key areas of: Clear leadership from the Board The need for risk management to be seen as part of everyday activity and to be embedded in line management culture Clear communication of the principles involved Active support and involvement of the internal audit function Regular review of the process and continual assessment of the changing nature of the risks presenting themselves to the business.
As part of the risk management regime a disaster recovery plan has been developed and tested for the Groups key locations and provides for recovery procedures for all the primary business functions.
4 Going Concern The directors confirm that, after having made appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
40 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
