Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2003.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal activities of the Group are providing industrial wireless data communications systems, integration services and product support and maintenance to customers worldwide.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003 are set out on pages 35 to 60.
The loss on ordinary activities after taxation was 17,978,000 2002 29,226,000.
A review of the business of the Group is given on pages 4 to 19.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for 2003 2002 nil.
Subsequent events are disclosed in note 25.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The directors consider that research and development is vital to the Groups success in the future.
Research and development expenditure amounted to 12,652,000 2002 12,644,000, which, in line with established accounting policies, was written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
DIRECTORS The directors who held office at the date of this report are set out on pages 20 and 21.
All of the directors with the exception of Stephen Hill, Norbert Dawalibi, Alistair Crawford and Bill Jessup held office throughout the year.
Stephen Hill and Norbert Dawalibi were appointed on 2 May 2003.
Alistair Crawford was appointed on 1 September 2003 and Bill Jessup was appointed on 1 January 2004.
Charles Davies and Andrew Clegg resigned as directors on 7 March 2003 and 31 December 2003 respectively.
At the forthcoming AGM, resolutions for the election of Alistair Crawford and Bill Jessup, who were appointed subsequent to the last AGM, will be proposed.
David Potter and John Hawkins retire from office by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical information and service agreement details are set out on pages 20 to 21 and 28 respectively.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 1 March 2004, the Company has been notified of the following interests in its Ordinary Shares of 5p each, excluding directors interests, which represent 3% or more of the issued Ordinary Share capital: Shareholder Number of shares held % of shares in issue Phoenix Asset Management Partners Ltd 54,493,855 13.1 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 12,670,005 3.0 DIRECTORS INTERESTS The directors interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company at 31 December 2003 are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 32.
FIXED ASSETS Information relating to changes in fixed assets is given in notes 11 and 12 of the accounts.
SUPPLIER STATEMENT POLICY It is the Groups policy to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to abide by those terms.
As at 31 December 2003 the number of days of annual purchases represented by the year end trade creditors amounted to 47 days 2002 48 days and nil days 2002 nil for the Group and Company respectively.
EMPLOYEES The Group has developed employment policies that meet the relevant social, statutory and market practices in each country in which the Group operates.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and keeps them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through briefings to managers who subsequently hold meetings with individual staff, and written communications, including the use of the Group intranet.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES It is the policy of the Group to provide equal opportunities to all its employees regardless of their age, sex, colour, race, religion or ethnic origin and that disabled persons should enjoy the same employment opportunities, training and career development as others where they possess the necessary skills, experience and qualifications.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort would be made to ensure that their employment with the Group continued and that appropriate training was arranged.
CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Group contributed 41,000 to charities during the year 2002 7,000.
No contributions have been made to political parties.
Psion 2003 22 Directors Report ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM is to be held at The Royal Society of Arts, 8 John Adam Street, London WC2 on 14 May 2004 at 11.00 am.
Notice of the AGM is set out on pages 65 and 66.
AUDITORS On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the Companys auditors, transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnership Act 2000.
The Companys consent has been given to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to reappoint them will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES AND DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS Resolution 8 in the notice of AGM gives the directors general authority in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,934,818 representing 138,696,351 Ordinary Shares of 5p each, such amount being equivalent to one third of the issued share capital as at 1 March 2004.
Resolution 9 in the notice of AGM seeks approval for the disapplication of pre-emption rights either: a pursuant to a rights issue or a sale equivalent to a rights issue: or b the allotment of shares other than as part of a rights issue or the sale of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,040,223 representing 20,804,453 Ordinary Shares of 5p each, such amount being equivalent to 5% of the issued share capital as at 1 March 2004.
Although there is no present intention to use these authorities, the directors consider it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders that they should have the flexibility conferred by the above authorities to make small issues of shares for cash as suitable opportunities arise.
The authorities granted by resolutions 8 and 9 will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company in 2005, unless previously revoked, renewed or varied by the Company in general meeting.
With effect from 1 December 2003, the Company may purchase and hold up to 10% of its own shares in treasury with a view to their possible sale at a future date, rather than cancelling such shares on their purchase by the Company as has previously been required by legislation.
An authority for the Company to purchase its shares is contained in resolution 10.
Resolution 9 permits the Company to sell treasury shares without first offering those shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings as required by the Act.
As at 1 March 2004, the Company did not hold any treasury shares.
AUTHORITY FOR MARKET PURCHASES Resolution 10 in the notice of AGM seeks shareholder approval for the Company to have the power to purchase up to 41,608,905 Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital at a price that is not less than 5p per share the nominal value of each share and not more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Ordinary Share is purchased.
Shares purchased by the Company may either be cancelled or held by the Company in treasury for resale.
Although the directors presently have no intention to use the authority granted by resolution 10, they will review on an ongoing basis whether surplus funds should be returned to shareholders using the authority granted by this resolution.
The authority being sought will last until the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and 14 October 2005.
REDUCTION OF SHARE PREMIUM ACCOUNT The Company currently has a deficit on its profit and loss account of 25,023,000.
Resolution 11 proposes a reduction in the share premium account of 25,023,000, which would be set off in full against the deficit on the profit and loss account.
The elimination of the deficit on the profit and loss account would enable the Company to make distributions to shareholders in the future out of profits earned after the date on which the reduction in the share premium account becomes effective.
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company may reduce its share capital including by way of a reduction in its share premium account provided the reduction is approved by shareholders in general meeting and is confirmed by the court.
If resolution 11 is passed by shareholders, an application will be made as soon as practicable to the High Court for confirmation of the reduction in the share premium account.
It is expected that the application would be heard at the end of June 2004.
The court may require that certain undertakings are given in order to ensure that the position of the Companys creditors is not prejudiced by the reduction in the share premium account.
The Company intends to give those undertakings which it is advised are necessary and appropriate for the protection of creditors.
Subject to approval by shareholders and the court, the reduction in the share premium account and the associated elimination of the deficit on the profit and loss account will take effect on the registration of the court order with the Registrar of Companies.
This is expected to happen on or around 2 July, 2004.
By order of the Board 85 Frampton Street Bill Jessup London NW8 8NQ Company Secretary 1 March 2004 Psion 2003 23 Report on Corporate Governance A revised Combined Code on corporate governance was published in July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the 2003 FRC Code following a review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors by Derek Higgs and a review of audit committees by a group led by Sir Robert Smith.
The 2003 FRC Code applies in respect of reporting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
In respect of reporting periods commencing before 1 November 2003, the applicable Combined Code is the code and principles prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel and published in June 1998 the Hampel Code.
The Board has sought to apply the principals of the 2003 FRC Code as far as is practicable for this full reporting year.
The paragraphs below set out how the Company has applied the Hampel and 2003 FRC Codes during the year.
DIRECTORS The Board The directors of the Company and their biographical details are set out on pages 20 and 21.
The Board met eleven times during the year, excluding ad hoc meetings convened solely to deal with procedural matters, and attendance was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of during appointment meetings attended CHAIRMAN David Potter 11 11 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Andrew Clegg 11 10 Alistair Crawford 44 Charles Davies 22 Norbert Dawalibi 77 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Hawkins 11 10 Stephen Hill 76 Ian McElroy 11 11 Peter Ogden 11 9 The Chairman meets with the non-executive directors without the executives present at least annually as well as at other times as necessary.
The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The Board makes decisions and reviews and approves key policies and decisions of the Company in particular relating to: Corporate governance: Group strategy: Major capital projects: Risk management strategies: Systems for internal control: Acquisitions and disposals: and Other significant financing matters.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is supplied with timely information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been formally defined.
At 31 December 2003, the Board comprised the Chairman, the Chief Executive, one executive director and four non-executive directors.
Changes to the Board during the year and subsequently are set out in the Directors Report on page 22.
The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors with the exception of Ian McElroy, who was previously Chief Executive, are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
Peter Ogden is the nominated senior independent director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through normal channels.
The Company does not comply with the 2003 FRC Code provision that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and is satisfied that the current balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business and that no value would be added by the appointment of an additional independent non-executive director at this time.
New directors receive a formal induction on joining the Board appropriate to their level of knowledge and experience and are encouraged to visit different areas of the group as part of a familiarisation programme.
A Board meeting is held at one of the Groups overseas locations each year to allow all directors to meet with senior management.
All directors may develop and update their knowledge and capabilities at the Companys expense as necessary.
None of the executive directors are also directors of a FTSE 100 company.
Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, in appropriate circumstances.
All of the directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary would be a matter for the Board as a whole.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at the first AGM subsequent to their appointment and at least once every three years thereafter.
Biographical details of the directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM are given on pages 20 and 21.
The Chairman confirms that the directors being proposed for re-election have demonstrated commitment to their responsibilities and continue to perform effectively.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance cover has been in place throughout the year and is approved by the Board as part of the global insurance programme.
