Corporate governance report The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Brief biographical details of the current directors of the governance and supports the principles of governance set Company are set out on pages 20 and 21.
The non-executive out in the Combined Code on best practice in corporate directors are from varied business and other backgrounds governance appended to the Financial Services Authoritys and all directors have the benefit of induction visits and UK Listing Rules and which applied to reporting years briefings following their appointment to the Board.
The beginning prior to 1 November 2003 the Combined Code.
Company keeps the directors informed about the Companys This report contains the Companys statement on how it has business and regulatory matters by written briefings and applied the principles set out in the Combined Code, together presentations by senior management.
The non-executive with its statement of compliance with the code provisions.
directors experience allows them to exercise independent These statements are made following a review which has judgement on the Board and their views carry substantial been carried out in relation to the Boards practices.
The weight in Board decisions.
They contribute to the Companys Companys auditors have reviewed our compliance with those overall strategy, business planning and policy formulation, provisions of the Combined Code specified for their review.
in addition to monitoring its performance and its executive management.
The non-executive directors are given the Compliance with the Combined Code opportunity to have meetings together, either with or without The Board is pleased to confirm that throughout the year the Chairman present, and have so met within the past it has applied the principles of good governance contained 12 months.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The non-executive directors are appointed for three years: With the exception as set out below the Company was in re-appointment is not automatic, and each non-executive compliance throughout the year with the provisions of the directors position is subject to review prior to the expiry Combined Code: of their term of office.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association one third of the Board are required to Reference is made in the Remuneration Report on pages retire by rotation each year provided that each director shall 28 to 35 to the inclusion of fluctuating emoluments within retire at least once every three years.
Directors appointed the calculation of pensionable pay provision B.
1.6 by during the year are required to seek re-election at the first reference to schedule A although any new executive Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
There directors joining after 1 April 2000 will have their is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent pensionable salary calculated by reference to basic salary professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if only.
It has been decided, at this time, not to seek to necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors have access withdraw the benefit from those executive directors to to the advice of the Company Secretary.
The removal of the whom the inclusion of fluctuating emoluments in Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
pensionable pay calculations is a contractual entitlement.
However, this matter will be kept under review.
The Board normally meets eight times during the year.
It has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it, some of The Board which are delegated to Board committees, and these include There is a clear division of authority and responsibility at the the approval of the interim and annual results, dividend policy, most senior level within the Company through the separation circulars to shareholders and listing particulars, matters of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, and a written relating to share capital, the approval of the annual budget schedule setting out their respective responsibilities has been and all major capital projects, investments and commitments.
In broad terms, the Chairman is A review of board effectiveness was carried out in 2002 and responsible for the leadership and effective running of the a further review is currently underway.
The membership of Board and ensuring that appropriate strategies, plans and the Board committees is provided on pages 20 and 21. budgets are presented for consideration by the directors, arrangements for Board succession are regularly reviewed, The Executive Board and that all directors, both executive and non-executive, The Executive Board comprises the Chief Executive, five are consulted to enable them to play their full part in the business Managing Directors, the Group Finance Director Companys activities.
The Chief Executive is responsible and the Group Human Resources Director.
It is collectively for the executive management of the Group and for the responsible for the operational performance of the Company, implementation of the strategies, policies and plans approved developing strategy, leading management development and by the Board.
The Board recognises its responsibility to agreeing company wide operational policies.
It meets on a identify and determine price sensitive information and for regular basis, usually monthly.
ensuring that such information is disseminated in an appropriate manner.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five executive directors and four more non-executive directors.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The senior independent director is Peter Long.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 25 Corporate governance report The Audit Committee The proxy votes cast at general meetings are made available The Audit Committee currently comprises all the non-executive to all shareholders and are announced at the meeting.
The directors and was chaired by Peter Long throughout 2003.
Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially The Audit Committee normally meets three times per year, separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together and has an agenda linked to events in the Companys inappropriately.
Shareholders were asked to vote on the financial calendar.
Other directors have a right of attendance Remuneration Report for the first time at the Annual General and other members of management may attend by invitation.
Meeting in 2001 and the Board will be asking shareholders The committee is established with written terms of reference, to approve the Remuneration Report at the forthcoming which include the following main responsibilities: Annual General Meeting.
monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial Internal control statements: The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the systems of internal control and risk management reviewing the internal control and risk management throughout the Group and the joint venture companies and systems: for reviewing their effectiveness.
A sound system of internal control provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that monitoring and reviewing the internal audit function: a company will not be hindered in achieving its business objectives, or in the orderly and legitimate conduct of its making recommendations to the Board in relation to the business, by circumstances which may reasonably be appointment of the external auditor and approving the foreseen.
A system of internal control cannot, however, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external provide protection with certainty against a company failing auditor following appointment by the shareholders in to meet its business objectives or all material errors, losses, general meeting: fraud, or breaches of laws or regulations.
monitoring and reviewing the external auditors There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and, managing the significant risks faced by the Company and this has been in place, across the Group and the joint venture developing policy on the engagement of the external companies, during the year under review and up to the date auditor for the supply of non-audit services.
of approval of this report.
That process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance in Internal The Nominations Committee control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The Nominations Committee is established under written published in September 1999 the Turnbull Report.
terms of reference and comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the four non-executive directors.
From 1 May The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness 2003 it has been chaired by Peter Smith previously chaired of the systems of internal control, including financial, by Sir Trevor Chinn until his retirement on 30 April 2003.
The operational and compliance controls and risk management committee meets at least once a year and at such other times systems, for the period included the following: as is required.
It keeps the balance of Board membership under review and makes recommendations to the Board a control environment which includes an organisation on the appointment of new directors.
structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority in addition to documented controls and The Remuneration Committee procedures appropriate to the specific area: The Remuneration Committee is operated under clearly defined terms of reference, is comprised exclusively of financial reporting procedures which require the Board to independent non-executive directors, and from 1 May 2003 approve the annual budget, review monthly trading results, has been chaired by John Poulter previously chaired by balance sheets and cash flows against plan, and receive Peter Long until 30 April 2003.
The committees role is explanations from management on significant variances: described in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 35. a risk management process in which senior managers The report includes a statement of the Boards policy on around the Group confirm the nature and extent of the the remuneration of executive directors and details of the significant risks facing their businesses and the likelihood remuneration of each director.
Further details are also set of their materialising and the controls in place to manage out in note 7 to the financial statements on page 50. such risks: Shareholder relations regular reporting to the Board on risk management, The Company is committed to ongoing communications including health, safety and environmental risks and risk across its shareholder base, whether institutional investors, transfer, and the internal control environment, and from private or employee shareholders.
The Companys website a number of functions, including Treasury and Tax: and, www.
co. uk provides both corporate and customer information and is updated on a regular basis.
The chairmen formal statements prepared by the Chief Executive, and of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees by the managing directors of each operating division and are available at Annual General Meetings to take any company in which they acknowledge their responsibility relevant questions.
for the internal control and risk management systems in their businesses and confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of those systems.
26 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 The Groups Policies on Financial Control were issued Assignments with KPMG Audit Plc and its associates are, in 2003 for implementation by all Group and joint venture and have been, subject to controls by management that companies.
have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
In summary the A procedure for monthly reporting on internal control issues procedures are: enables management to identify any control problems and to ensure that prompt and effective remedial action is taken.
Audit related services: As auditors this is the main area of work of KPMG Audit Plc and its associates.
It includes The Groups control systems and processes are subject to formalities relating to shareholder circulars, regulatory risk focused internal audit which plays an important role in reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
providing independent assurance to management and the Audit Committee on key control processes.
The Audit Tax consulting: In cases where they are best suited, the Committee reviews internal audit plans and reports, together Company uses KPMG and its associates, but also uses with external audit plans and management letters.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated competitively.
The scope of the work, authority and resources of internal audit are reviewed by the Audit Committee, which also General and systems consulting: All significant consulting conducts a self-appraisal exercise to monitor its own projects are put out to competitive bids.
KPMG is only effectiveness, annually.
allowed to tender when Group management and KPMG are satisfied that the nature of the work presents no Audit independence potential threat to the independence of the audit team.
The Audit Committee and Board put great emphasis on the Of the general and systems consulting work that has objectivity of our auditors KPMG Audit Plc in their reporting taken place in the Group in recent years, KPMG and to shareholders.
its associates has had only a small part.
The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at In accordance with the policies set by the Audit Committee, the Annual General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard but, the Group Finance Director must approve and authorise all beyond this, controls have been in place for some years to non-audit work carried out by KPMG Audit Plc and its ensure the independence of the auditors.
associates anywhere in the Group in excess of a predetermined financial threshold, and a part of this process The Audit Committee meets three times a year and the is to determine that other potential providers of the services KPMG audit director and senior manager are present at these have been adequately considered.
The Audit Committee also meetings to ensure full communication.
receives and reviews half-yearly reports on the non-audit work that is carried out by the auditors under that authority.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee based on management feedback.
Taken together these procedures provide the Audit Committee Feedback is also provided to independent reviewers appointed with adequate confidence in the independence of KPMG by KPMG Audit Plc for review on a periodic basis.
This Audit Plc in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
activity forms part of KPMG Audit Plcs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee has regular meetings with the auditors, without executive management being present.
The scope of the years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Rotation of the audit directors responsibilities within KPMG Audit Plc is included within the Audit Committees annual review and is also required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
The audit director responsible for the engagement, who had held her role for six years, rotated off at the conclusion of the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
There is also rotation within the audit teams.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 27
