Corporate Governance The Group has included a statement of its compliance with the Combined Code as provided by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority and has itemised any variations from the provisions of the Combined Code.
All the items of compliance noted have been in place for the entire period under review.
44 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 The Board The Board of Randgold Resources has a fiduciary responsibility to guide the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the Company.
Whilst taking cognisance of the importance of having a majority of independent, non-executive directors, the members support the principle that the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Notwithstanding this principle, the non-executive directors provide an independent assessment of the activities of the Company and its management, including verification of the integrity of financial information and all forms of control and risk management.
The Board maintains a regular schedule of meetings to deliberate on matters which are reserved for its specific consideration.
In this regard, the Board has reserved for its sole discretion the finalisation and adoption of the strategic development, major fiscal policies, finalisation of all mining developments and consideration of and approvals of any merger and acquisition.
The day to day management of the business has however been delegated to management.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the responsibilities of chairman and chief executive officer are separated.
Performance of the incumbents is measured in line with guidelines laid down by the Board according to set and agreed criteria.
The Board has acknowledged that the chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and to ensure that effective communications exist between the executive and nonexecutive directors.
A senior independent non-executive director has been appointed.
The Company has not appointed a nomination committee as it is the policy for details of a candidate to be distributed to all directors for formal consideration at a full meeting of the Board.
A prospective candidate would be invited to attend a meeting and be interviewed before any decision was taken.
The Board will reconsider this position as and when it deems necessary.
The Board has two other committees, the Audit and Remuneration Committees, both consisting solely of independent non-executive directors.
Details of the composition and the activities of both are contained hereafter or in the subsequent report of the Remuneration Committee.
In future, the evaluation of the chairmans performance will be considered by the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director.
The structure and timing of the Companys board meetings, which are scheduled over two days, allows adequate time for the chairman to interact with the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors.
During the past financial year, two directors resigned and subsequent to year end, a third retired.
There are no immediate plans to replace these directors as it is believed that the present size of the board can adequately oversee the direction of the Company.
During the year, the board met nine times and attendance at meetings was as follows: Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 45 Number of Total number meeting of board Name Status attended meetings R A R Kebble Executive Chairman 7 9 D M Bristow Chief Executive Officer 8 9 R A Williams Financial Director 8 9 B H Asher Senior Independent Non-executive 9 9 D Ashworth Non-independent Non-executive 4 4 J-A Cramer Independent Non-executive 8 9 R I Israel Independent Non-executive 7 9 P Litard Independent Non-executive 9 9 F Lips Independent Non-executive 5 9 A L Paverd Independent Non-executive 7 9 R B Kebble Non-independent Non-executive 0 4 Mr D Ashworth resigned from the Board on 4 August 2003.
Mr R B Kebble resigned from the Board on 30 July 2003.
Mr F Lips retired from the Board on 19 February 2004.
The independence of the non-executive directors made available through the offices of the company complies with the relevant definitions of the United secretary.
All directors have direct access to independent Kingdom Listing Authoritys Combined Code.
All of the professional advice when they deem that such assistance non-executive directors have options in terms of the is necessary in the furtherance of their responsibilities.
Companys share option scheme, but do not believe that this interferes with their independence.
In accordance with the provision of Jersey Company Law and the Articles of Association, directors are required to It is the practice of the Company to hold its annual general submit themselves to re-election.
Any newly appointed meeting in conjunction with a board meeting, thereby director is subject to election by shareholders at the first ensuring that members of the executive, the senior annual general meeting after his appointment.
Thereafter, independent director and the chairmen of the Board by rotation, the entire Board is subject to re-election every Committees are available to answer any queries that three years.
Currently, the majority of non-executive shareholders might raise.
When new non-executive directors have served on the board for a period of six directors are appointed, the terms and conditions of years, and in Dr Paverds case since 1995. appointment are available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
The current terms and conditions At the present time, the Articles of Association do not of appointment of the executive directors will be available specify any age limit for directors to retire nor is there any for inspection at the annual general meeting.
restriction about the period of service.
However, the Board will reconsider its composition for future years and the The job specifications for the chairman, chief executive implementation of an age limit for directors if it deems this officer and financial director have been formally approved appropriate.
by the Remuneration Committee and the Board and these have been reviewed.
Accountability and Audit The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and The Board operates in a field which is technically complex understandable assessment of the Companys position and directors continue to be exposed to information which and prospects.
This extends to the preparation and enables them to fulfill their duties.
Visits to the operations publication of the annual report and any other release of are made and technical presentations by management information, price sensitive or otherwise.
and the Companys advisers are given to further their knowledge in various areas of specialisation, including In accordance with the guidance on going concern corporate governance and the various requirements of the and financial reporting published in the United Kingdom US regulatory authorities.
At the moment, induction in November 1974, the directors have continued to adopt courses take the form of presentations made to the Board the going concern basis in preparing the financial and site visits.
Information necessary to update the Board statements.
on the Companys activities and corporate governance is 46 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 The financial statements set out in this report have been and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on prepared by management in accordance with 30 June 2003 and can be obtained from the Companys International Financial Reporting Standards and are based website: www.
on accounting policies that the Board considers appropriate and which have been consistently applied Audit Committee and are supported by reasonable and prudent The Audit Committee comprises four independent nonjudgements and estimates.
executive directors: The directors are of the opinion that the financial Name Status Appointed statements fairly present the financial position of the Company and Group as at 31 December 2003, and the consolidated results of operations and the cash flow B H Asher Chairman 15 Jul 1997 information of the Group for the year then ended.
The J-A Cramer 15 Jul 1997 directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate P Litard 20 April 1998 resources available to ensure its continued operational existence.
A L Paverd 1 May 2000 The Companys disclosure control procedures necessary to ensure compliance with section 302 a and 906 of the The Committee presently comprises four members with United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 have been considerable experience in the financial services sector.
The Board believes that this level of expertise is sufficient to meet the standards imposed by the Combined Code.
If The Company has operated under a code of ethics since issues arose which were deemed outside the areas of its United Kingdom listing in July 1997 and subsequently expertise of the Audit Committee, which required as applicable with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 deliberation, independent professional advice would be as noted above.
The code has been updated to sought by the Committee.
have specific reference to the Companys financial managers and the chief executive officer.
A copy During the year, the Committee has met 5 times and of the code is available on the Companys website: attendance at the meetings was as follows: www.
Number of Internal Control meetings The Group maintains a Business Control Framework that Name Status attended documents the key business risks, operational, financial, compliance and related controls.
The Business Control B H Asher Chairman 4 Framework is regularly reviewed and updated by J-A Cramer Member 5 management, who report quarterly to the Board on any P Litard Member 5 issues which might affect the risks and controls.
The A L Paverd Member 4 Board acknowledges that it has responsibility for the overall and ongoing review and update of the Business Control Framework and that it has complied with Code The Committee makes recommendations to the Board in Provision C. 2.1 through the procedures noted above.
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor as well as the remuneration and terms The Board receives copies of all the internal audit reports of engagement of the external auditor.
It is noted that the in respect of the Morila gold mine.
Executive management actual appointment of the external auditors is subject to undertake regular audits of various parts of the Morila mine the approval of shareholders at the annual general and details of these reports are submitted to the Audit meeting.
The Companys internal audit function is Committee and Board for comment.
Financial and undertaken by Pro Optima Audit Services Pty Limited.
technical audits of the Companys branch offices and The appointment of the internal auditors is considered by major assets are regularly conducted.
the Committee, and the final appointment is then confirmed by the Board.
All internal audit reports are The Board notes that no cost effective control system will submitted to the Committee for approval.
preclude all errors and irregularities.
The meetings of the Committee review and monitor the Details of the key risk factors which might affect the external auditors independence and the objectivity and activities of the Company are contained in the Form 20-F effectiveness of the audit process.
This is undertaken annual report filing for the period to 31 December 2002, within the framework of a detailed audit charter which has Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 47 been adopted by the Board.
A copy of the audit charter is which are circulated to all stakeholders, are prepared in available on the Companys website, or through the office both English and French.
Besides attendances at various of the company secretary.
industry conferences, regular roadshows during the year are undertaken to enable Company representatives to The purpose of the Committee is to review the Companys interact directly with shareholders and other interested published results, the effectiveness of its systems of parties.
Attendance at these conferences and internal control, internal audit procedures and legal and presentations regularly includes non-executive directors.
regulatory compliance and the cost effectiveness of the services provided by the internal and external auditors.
The Board also believes that the annual general meeting is The Audit Committee has implemented a policy regarding an appropriate forum for contact with share owners and the provision of non-audit services by external auditors, encourages their attendance and participation.
In order to reflect the sentiment of share owners at the The Committee meets regularly and this includes quarterly annual general meeting, policy is that all resolutions meetings which are used to consider and approve the should be considered by way of a ballot poll and the Companys quarterly results.
The external and internal number of proxies received disclosed to the members in auditors are regularly invited to attend meetings to report attendance.
The Committee also meets with the external auditors, independent of the executive directors or management, where this is deemed necessary.
Shareholders Communications The Board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining effective communications with all shareholders.
The CEO David Haddon and the Companys investor relations consultants prepare Secretary a quarterly report for the Board detailing the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
Quarterly reports, 9 March 2004 48 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003
