CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT R B Jones and P L Pedley conduct reciprocal annual appraisals The Committee meets four times a year, on each occasion also Combined Code and also review the performance of each Non-Executive Director meeting the External Auditors to discuss the interim accounts The Board of Redrow plc is committed to high standards of individually, once again having taken feedback from the Board.
and the Annual Report and Accounts as well as internal control corporate governance and has considered the requirements of the Combined Code adopted by the Stock Exchange.
including the work of Internal Audit, risk assessment and other In 2003, a formal 2 day induction programme for all new Redrow issues within the Group.
In addition, the Board receives regular The Directors confirm that, with the exception set out below, presentations from those responsible for key Group disciplines.
 LLP were appointed auditors in 2003 the Group has complied with Section 1 throughout the year having succeeded  who were appointed ended 30 June 2003.
A formal schedule of matters is reserved for the Board including in 1987.
The current audit partner was appointed in 1999. authorisation of major land acquisitions and contracts, approval The fees relating to non-audit services provided by Under provision B.
1.6, the deferred element of the Redrow Long of budgets and accounts and monitoring of business performance.
 LLP are disclosed in Note 2 to the Term Share Incentive Plan LTSIP, which was in operation The Board delegates certain powers to the Chief Executive and Accounts, summarised according to different types of work from July 1996 to June 2000, vests in the participants in under Executive Directors.
undertaken and are less than 0.1m.
The main area of non-audit three years.
This was considered justified having regard to the total executive remuneration package during that time.
An work relates to advice provided to the Company in connection R B Jones is the Non-Executive Chairman and P L Pedley is the with the operation and valuation of the pension scheme.
The amendment was made to the Redrow LTSIP following the Chief Executive.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is Audit Committee has reviewed the level of non-audit work Annual General Meeting on 13 October 2000 such that options J Martin.
undertaken and has concluded this level of fee does not affect awarded to Directors in respect of years after June 2000 do not the independence of the Audit.
Appointments in respect of vest in the participants for a period of three years.
Details are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 39 to 41.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the non-audit work receive the prior approval of the Audit Group Company Secretary and the Board acknowledges that in Committee.
certain circumstances Board committees and individual Directors Under provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Company is may wish to take independent professional advice in connection Remuneration Committee required to report on internal control.
The Companys report on with their responsibilities and duties.
The Company will meet internal control can be found on page 38 within this Corporate Governance statement.
the reasonable expenses incurred in this regard.
J Martin Chairman R B Jones The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees, R G Williams the members of which, with the exception of the Environmental B Duckworth Board and committees Corporate Responsibility Committee, are comprised entirely of Following the promotions of N Fitzsimmons to Group Managing Director and D L Arnold to Group Finance Director, the Non-Executive Directors as follows: The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are outlined in the Remuneration report on page 39.
Board of Redrow plc comprises of six Executive and four Audit Committee Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors comprise Under Resolution 2, the Remuneration Committee report will not less than one third of the Board and all Non-Executive R G Williams Chairman be put before Shareholders for adoption at the Annual General Directors are considered to be independent.
The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the management of the Company R B Jones Meeting on 5 November 2003.
J Martin and for the protection of its assets.
The Board meets regularly on B Duckworth a formal basis and not less than ten times a year.
In the financial year ended 30 June 2003, the Board met eleven times.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include the The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and appointment of and liaison with External Auditors, the review of annual and interim financial statements, the review of the good training are important requirements across the Group.
statement on internal control and consideration of any major All Executive Directors have an annual appraisal at which a findings of internal investigations.
review of performance against personal objectives is undertaken.
P L Pedley undertakes the appraisal of his fellow Executive Directors having taken input from the Board generally.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 37 Nomination Committee have been assessed.
The Executive Board through its regular meetings reviews the areas of risk on an on-going basis and R B Jones Chairman considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to R G Williams those risks are appropriate.
This procedure also takes place at J Martin Regional Board Meetings on a quarterly basis.
The Audit B Duckworth Committee also reviews its assessment of risk at twice yearly meetings.
The key features of the Groups internal controls are The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include the as follows: identification and recommendation to the Board of suitable Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
A Policy and Procedures Manual covers all the significant aspects of the Groups operations and Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee describes the systems and controls that are to be applied across the whole Group.
The Manual is reviewed and B Duckworth Chairman updated with amendments being signed off by an R G Williams Executive Director.
The Board of each trading entity is J Martin required to formally confirm on an annual basis that N Fitzsimmons they have complied in all material respects with these procedures.
This was formed in the year and replaced the Environmental Committee.
Details are included in the Corporate Social Defined authorisation levels established over key areas Responsibility review on pages 22 to 25. such as land purchase and the placing of orders and contracts.
Internal Control The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance the Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their and reviewed at each of the Main, Executive, Regional effectiveness.
However, in reviewing the effectiveness of internal and subsidiary company board meetings.
Annual budgets control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not are set and monthly forecasts prepared, with actual absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
performance compared against the annual budget and updated forecasts.
Key business activities including land acquisition, product design, specification and procurement and information The Groups systems provide weekly updates on key technology are controlled by the Executive Directors.
All statistics in relation to sales and production.
In addition, activity is organised within a defined structure with formal daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a significant payments are prepared.
On an annual basis, strategic plans are prepared and A formalised reporting structure is established within the Group.
reviewed which cover key aspects of the Groups The Executive Board, comprising the Executive Directors and operations and identifies medium term objectives and the Group Company Secretary meet monthly to discuss the areas of risk to the business.
Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
Similarly, each Region holds a Regional Board Meeting, chaired by the Regional In addition to the above, the Group has an Internal Audit Chairman and attended by the Managing Directors of the function which has direct reporting to the Audit Committee.
These Managing Directors chair a monthly The annual work programme of Internal Audit is approved in board meeting of their own subsidiary company.
advance by the Audit Committee and commented upon by the The Board has reviewed the Groups operations and processes External Auditors.
The Internal Audit function updates the and has identified risk areas which have been assessed for their Audit Committee on its work at their meetings.
All reports are potential impact and internal controls in relation to those risks distributed to the Board as well as to the External Auditors.
