Structure and Corporate Governance STRUCTURE and the United States.
The effect of this is that an obligation Corporate structure applying to one will, where practicable and not in conflict, Reed Elsevier came into existence in January 1993, when also be observed by the other.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their Reed Elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing on the businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier London Stock Exchange, has complied throughout the Group plc, a UK registered company which owns the period under review with the provisions and principles of publishing and information businesses, and Elsevier Reed Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which owns the Best Practice, issued by the UK Financial Services Authority.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their separate legal and national identities support the provisions and principles of corporate and are publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate securities are listed in London and New York, and Reed Governance issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council in Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New July 2003 the UK Combined Code and believe that each York.
company complied with the provisions and principles of the UK Combined Code at the close of the period under review.
Equalisation arrangements Reed Elsevier NV, which has its primary listing on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% Euronext in Amsterdam, has complied throughout the interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds period under review with the listing rules of Euronext in a 39% interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Amsterdam and best custom and practice appropriate to Elsevier NV holding a 61% interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC internationally focused Dutch companies.
The boards of additionally holds an indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC support the NV, reflecting the arrangements entered into between the principles of corporate governance set out in the Dutch two companies at the time of the merger, which determined Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2003 the the equalisation ratio whereby one Reed Elsevier NV Dutch Code and believe that they will have no significant ordinary share is, in broad terms, intended to confer issues regarding compliance with the Dutch Code during equivalent economic interests to 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC 2004, subject to reconciliation with the UK Combined Code.
The equalisation ratio is subject to change The ways in which the relevant principles of corporate to reflect share splits and similar events that affect the governance are applied and complied with within Reed number of outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV are described below.
Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed THE BOARDS Elsevier, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other than The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each Elsevier.
Holders of ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC comprise a balance of executive and non-executive directors and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy substantially equivalent dividend who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the and capital rights with respect to their ordinary shares.
All non-executive directors are The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier independent of management and free from any business or NV have agreed, except in exceptional circumstances, to other relationship which could materially interfere with the recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with exercise of their independent judgment.
respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary All directors have full and timely access to the information shares, the associated UK tax credit, based on the required to discharge their responsibilities fully and equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share pays efficiently.
dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and respect to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc are harmonised.
Subject to ordinary share pays dividends in euros and is subject to approval by the respective shareholders, all the directors of Dutch tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
Reed Elsevier Group plc are also directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV.
No individual may be CORPORATE GOVERNANCE appointed to the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier Compliance with codes of best practice NV or Reed Elsevier Group plc unless recommended by the The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have joint Nominations Committee, although members of the implemented standards of corporate governance and Committee abstain when their own re-appointment is being disclosure policies applicable to companies listed on the considered.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV stock exchanges of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands shareholders maintain their rights to appoint individuals to 22 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE their respective boards, in accordance with the provisions of appointed April 2003, Lord Sharman and Rolf Stomberg.
The the Articles of Association of those companies.
executive board comprises Crispin Davis Chief Executive On appointment, directors receive training appropriate to Officer, Mark Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van their level of previous experience.
This includes the provision fide Aast, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney appointed of a tailored induction programme, so as to provide newly April 2003.
Roelof Nelissen and Steven Perrick retired as appointed directors with information about the Reed members of the supervisory board in April 2003 and Derk Elsevier businesses and other information to assist them in Haank resigned as a member of the executive board in June performing their duties.
The boards met five times during the year.
Due to a encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet prior commitment Mr van Lede was not able to attend one directors and senior executives.
All directors have access to meeting and Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt was not able to attend three the services of the respective company secretaries and may meetings due to illness, otherwise there was full take independent professional advice in the furtherance of attendance.
their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
At the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting to be All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV directors are held on 29 April 2004, Messrs Tabaksblat and Stomberg and subject to retirement at least every three years, and are able Lord Sharman will retire by rotation as members of the then to make themselves available for re-election by supervisory board, and Mr van fide Aast will retire by rotation shareholders at the respective Annual General Meetings.
as a member of the executive board.
Being eligible, they As a general rule, non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier offer themselves for re-election.
PLC and members of the Reed Elsevier NV supervisory board serve on the respective board for two, three year Reed Elsevier Group plc terms, although the boards may invite individual directors to The Reed Elsevier Group plc board consists of five executive serve up to one additional three year term.
directors: Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Mark Armour Chief Finance Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, Andrew Reed Elsevier PLC Prozes and Patrick Tierney appointed April 2003, and The Reed Elsevier PLC board consists of five executive seven independent non-executive directors: Morris directors: Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Mark Tabaksblat Chairman, John Brock, Mark Elliott Armour Chief Financial Officer, Gerard van fide Aast, appointed April 2003, Cees van Lede appointed April 2003, Andrew Prozes and Patrick Tierney appointed April 2003, David Reid appointed April 2003, Lord Sharman and Rolf and seven independent non-executive directors: Morris Stomberg.
Roelof Nelissen and Steven Perrick retired as Tabaksblat Chairman, John Brock, Mark Elliott directors in April 2003 and Derk Haank resigned as a appointed April 2003, Cees van Lede appointed April 2003, director in June 2003.
The board met six times during the David Reid appointed April 2003, Lord Sharman and Rolf year.
Due to a prior commitment, Messrs Haank, van Lede Stomberg senior independent non-executive director.
and Reid were each not able to attend one meeting, Roelof Nelissen and Steven Perrick retired as directors in otherwise there was full attendance.
April 2003 and Derk Haank resigned as a director in June Biographical information in respect of the current 2003.
The board met five times during the year.
Due to a members of the boards appears on pages 10 and 11 of the prior commitment, Mr van Lede was not able to attend one Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
meeting, otherwise there was full attendance.
At the Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meeting to be Elsevier Reed Finance BV held on 28 April 2004, Messrs Tabaksblat, van fide Aast and The management board and the supervisory board of Stomberg and Lord Sharman will retire by rotation.
Being Elsevier Reed Finance BV met three times during the year.
eligible, they offer themselves for re-election.
All members of these boards attended all board meetings during the year, with the exception of Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt Reed Elsevier NV who was not able to attend one meeting.
The supervisory Reed Elsevier NV has a two-tier board structure comprising board comprises Roelof Nelissen Chairman, Mark Armour a supervisory board of eight members, all of whom are and Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, with the management board independent non-executives, and an executive board of five consisting of Willem Boellaard and Jacques Billy.
The executive board is responsible for the Appointments to the supervisory and management boards management of the company and the supervisory board are made by the shareholders, in accordance with the supervises the executive board.
The members of the companys Articles of Association.
In April 2003 Steven supervisory board are Morris Tabaksblat Chairman, Dien Perrick retired from the supervisory board.
fide Boer-Kruyt, John Brock, Mark Elliott appointed April 2003, Cees van Lede appointed April 2003, David Reid REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 23 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD COMMITTEES During the course of 2004 the Committee will keep under In accordance with the principles of good corporate review the implications of the UK Combined Code and the governance, the following committees, all of which have Dutch Code on the corporate governance structure and written terms of reference, have been established by the practices of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
The terms of reference of these committees are published on the Reed Elsevier website Nominations Committee www.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Nominations Committee, which provides a formal and Audit Committees transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier to the boards.
The Committee comprises a majority of Group plc have established Audit Committees.
The Committee is Committees comprise only non-executive directors, all of chaired by Morris Tabaksblat, the other members being whom are independent.
The Committees are chaired by Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer, Cees van Lede Lord Sharman, the other members being John Brock and appointed in April 2003, Lord Sharman appointed in David Reid appointed in April 2003.
A report of the Audit August 2003 and Rolf Stomberg.
The Committee believes Committees, setting out the role of the Committees and that it is appropriate for the Chief Executive Officer to be a their main activities during the year, appears on pages 27 member of the Committee since he provides a perspective and 28. which assists the Committee in nominating candidates to The Committees met four times during the year, and there the board who will be able to work as a team with both the was full attendance.
The Committee met twice during the year, and there was full attendance.
Corporate Governance Committee The Committees terms of reference include assuring Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have established a board succession and making recommendations to the joint Corporate Governance Committee, which comprises boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed only non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
Elsevier Group plc concerning the appointment or The Committee is chaired by Morris Tabaksblat, the other reappointment of directors to, and the retirement of members being Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, John Brock, Mark directors from, those boards.
In conjunction with the Elliott appointed in April 2003, Cees van Lede appointed Chairman of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration in April 2003, David Reid appointed in April 2003, Committee and external consultants, the Committee is also Lord Sharman and Rolf Stomberg.
The Committee met responsible for developing proposals for the remuneration twice during the year and, with the exception of Mrs fide and fees for new directors.
Boer-Kruyt who was absent through illness, there was full During the period the Committee recommended to the attendance.
boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed In addition to reviewing ongoing developments and best Elsevier Group plc the appointment of an additional practice in corporate governance, the Committee is also executive director and three non-executive directors, as set responsible for recommending the structure and operation out on pages 31 and 32.
In each case the Committee of the various committees of the boards and the retained the services of external search consultants to qualifications and criteria for membership of each produce short lists of potential candidates.
committee, including the independence of members of the boards.
Remuneration Committee During the period the Committee reviewed ongoing Reed Elsevier Group plc has established a Remuneration developments and best practice in corporate governance.
Committee which comprises only independent nonThe Committee also assessed the performance of individual executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Rolf executive directors and the functioning and constitution of Stomberg, the other members being Mark Elliott the boards and their Committees and the Chairman appointed in April 2003 and Cees van Lede appointed in assessed the individual performance of the non-executive April 2003.
The Committee met three times during the year.
directors, in consultation with the other directors.
The Mr van Lede was not able to attend one meeting, otherwise Committee, led by the senior independent non-executive there was full attendance.
director, also assessed the performance of the Chairman.
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Based on these assessments, the Committee believes that board the remuneration in all its forms of executive the performance of each director continues to be effective directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, and provides advice to and that they demonstrate commitment to their respective the Chief Executive Officer on the remuneration of roles in Reed Elsevier.
executives at a senior level below the board.
It also makes recommendations to the board of Reed Elsevier PLC and 24 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reed Elsevier NV regarding the remuneration of the and systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc executive directors of these companies.
and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier The fees of non-executive directors are determined by PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have each adopted a schedule of each of the boards as a whole.
matters which are required to be brought to them for A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier approved by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 29 to Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, 38.
This report also serves as disclosure of the directors and receive regular reports on the operations, including the remuneration and interests in shares of the two parent treasury and risk management activities, of the two companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Major transactions proposed by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV Strategy Committee require the approval of the boards of both Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier Group plc has established a Strategy PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Committee, comprising a majority of independent nonThe Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Morris Committees meet on a regular basis to review the systems Tabaksblat, the other members being Crispin Davis, Mark of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Elliott appointed in April 2003 and David Reid appointed Reed Finance BV.
The Committee met once during the year, and there was full attendance.
Operating companies The Committees terms of reference include reviewing the The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is responsible for the major features of the strategy proposed by the Chief system of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing Executive Officer, and subsequently recommending the and information businesses, while the boards of Elsevier proposed strategy to the board.
The Committee is also Reed Finance BV are responsible for the system of internal responsible for reviewing any acquisition or investment, control in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards which would have major strategic or structural implications of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV for Reed Elsevier Group plc.
are also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of their system of internal control.
The objective of these systems is RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they can only regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against presentations on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses material misstatement or loss.
are made after the announcement of the interim and full The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed year results.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for Elsevier NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and views of the companies institutional shareholders and faced by their respective businesses.
This process has been the results are the subject of formal presentations to the in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 and respective boards.
A trading update is provided at the up to the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and respective Annual General Meetings of the two companies, Financial Statements.
and near the end of the financial year.
The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the boards to Reed Elsevier Group plc communicate with individual shareholders.
The Chairman, Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established framework of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the procedures and internal controls, which is set out in a group Chairmen of the board committees, other directors and a Policies and Procedures Manual, and with which the representative of the external auditor are available to management of each business is required to comply.
Group answer questions from shareholders.
The interim and businesses are required to maintain systems of internal annual results announcements and presentations, together control, which are appropriate to the nature and scale of with the trading updates and other important their activities and address all significant operational and announcements concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on financial risks that they face.
The board of Reed Elsevier the Reed Elsevier website www.
Group plc has adopted a schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
INTERNAL CONTROL Each business group has identified and evaluated its major Parent companies risks, the controls in place to manage those risks and the The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV level of residual risk accepted.
Risk management and exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities control procedures are embedded into the operations of the REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 25 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE business and include the monitoring of progress in areas state of affairs, and of the profit or loss, of the respective for improvement that come to management and board companies and their subsidiaries, joint ventures and attention.
The major risks identified include business associates.
They are responsible for maintaining proper continuity, protection of IT systems and data, challenges to accounting records, for safeguarding assets, and for taking intellectual property rights, management of strategic and reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other operational change, evaluation and integration of irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for acquisitions, and recruitment and retention of personnel.
selecting suitable accounting policies and applying them on The major strategic risks facing the Reed Elsevier Group a consistent basis, making judgements and estimates that plc businesses are considered by the Strategy Committee.
Litigation and other legal and regulatory matters are Applicable accounting standards have been followed and managed by legal directors in Europe and the United States.
the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements, which are The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee receives the responsibility of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and regular reports on the management of material risks and Reed Elsevier NV, are prepared using accounting policies reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives which comply with UK Generally Accepted Accounting regular reports from both internal and external auditors on Principles.
In addition, each Business Group is required, at the end of the financial year, to review the US CERTIFICATIONS effectiveness of its internal controls and report its findings As required by section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a detailed basis to the management of Reed Elsevier 2002 and by related rules issued by the US Securities and Group plc.
These reports are summarised and, as part of Exchange Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief the annual review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Chairman of the NV certify in the respective Annual Reports 2003 on Form Audit Committee reports to the board on any significant 20-F filed with the Commission that they are responsible for internal control matters arising.
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and that they have: Elsevier Reed Finance BV designed such disclosure controls and procedures to Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established policy guidelines, ensure that material information relating to Reed Elsevier which are applied for all Elsevier Reed Finance BV is made known to them: companies.
The boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elseviers disclosure adopted schedules of matters that are required to be controls and procedures: brought to them for decision.
Procedures are in place for based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit monitoring the activities of the finance group, including a Committees and the external auditors all significant comprehensive treasury reporting system.
The major risks deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure affecting the finance group have been identified and controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not evaluated and are subject to regular review.
The controls in material, that involve management or other employees place to manage these risks and the level of residual risk who have a significant role in Reed Elsevier internal accepted are monitored by the boards.
The internal control controls: and system of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV group is reviewed presented in the Annual Reports on Form 20-F their each year by its external auditors.
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
Annual review A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company As part of the year end procedures, the boards of Reed secretaries of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc other senior Reed Elsevier managers, provides assurance to and Elsevier Reed Finance BV have reviewed the the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the regarding their certifications.
GOING CONCERN RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, STATEMENTS having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, required to prepare financial statements as at the end of therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the in preparing the financial statements.
26 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
