Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of other independent professional advice and have the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, in conjunction authority to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
with the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, the A copy of the terms of reference of each Audit Committee Committees and has been approved by the respective is published on the Reed Elsevier website boards.
The report meets the requirements of The Combined Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Financial COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Services Authority.
The Committees each comprise at least three independent non-executive directors, at least one of which has AUDIT COMMITTEES significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in current members of each of the Committees are: Lord relation to the respective companies are set out in written Sharman Chairman of the Committees, John Brock and terms of reference and include: David Reid appointed April 2003. i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of Lord Sharman 61, a chartered accountant, spent his the company, and any formal announcements relating professional career at KPMG and now serves as nonto the companys financial performance, reviewing executive chairman of Aegis Group plc and Securicor plc significant financial reporting judgements contained in and is a member of the supervisory board of ABN-AMRO them: and a non-executive director of BG Group plc.
He was ii to review the companys internal financial controls and elected UK senior partner of KPMG in 1994 and served as the companys internal control and risk management Chairman of KPMG Worldwide between 1997 and 1999. systems: John Brock 55 is chief executive officer of Interbrew SA iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys and formerly chief operating officer of Cadbury Schweppes internal audit function: plc.
David Reid 57, a chartered accountant, was until iv to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to December 2003 executive deputy chairman of Tesco PLC, the shareholders for their approval in general meetings, with responsibility for strategy, business development and in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and international operations: he was previously its finance removal of the external auditor and to approve the director and is its non-executive chairman designate.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external During the 2003 financial year, until April 2003, Rolf auditor: Stomberg, Roelof Nelissen and Steven Perrick served on v to review and monitor the external auditors the Committees, all being non executive directors and, other independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of than Mr Perrick, independent.
Mr Stomberg is the senior the audit process, taking into consideration relevant independent non executive director and his biographical professional and regulatory requirements: and details are set out in the Reed Elsevier Annual Review.
vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of Mr Nelissen has served on a number of supervisory boards the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking and is a former chairman of the managing board of ABN into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the AMRO.
Mr Perrick is a partner in Freshfields Bruckhaus provision of non-audit services by the external audit Deringer in the Netherlands, an international firm of firm, and to monitor compliance.
advisers which provides legal advice to Reed Elsevier.
The Committees report to the respective boards on their Appointments to the Committees are made on the activities identifying any matters in respect of which they recommendation of the Nominations Committee and are for consider that action or improvement is needed and making periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
two additional three-year periods, so long as the member The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this continues to be independent.
Details of the remuneration role in respect of the publishing and information operating policy in respect of members of the Committees and the business.
The functions of an audit committee in respect of remuneration paid to members for the year ended the financing activities are carried out by the supervisory 31 December 2003 are set out in the Directors board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 38. and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil their roles from the perspective of the parent companies and both COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES committees have access to the reports to and the work of The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the around January, February, June, August and December, and Elsevier Reed Finance BV supervisory board in this respect.
report on these meetings to the respective boards at the The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any next board meetings.
The principal business of these matters within their terms of reference and have access to meetings includes: all resources and information that they may require for this - January: review of critical accounting policies and purpose.
The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and practices, and significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the annual financial REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 27 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEES statements: review of internal control effectiveness: update reports on accounting and regulatory reviewing and approving the internal audit plan: review of developments, including in relation to International internal audit findings Accounting Standards.
- February: review and approval of annual financial iii received and discussed regular reports on the statements, results announcement and related formal management of material risks and reviewed the statements: review of external audit findings effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
As part - June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, of this review, detailed internal control evaluation and performance, expertise, resources, objectivity and self-certification is obtained from management across independence of the external auditors and the the operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit and effectiveness of the external and internal audit process: discussed with the Committees.
agreeing the external audit plan: reviewing significant iv received and discussed regular reports from the director financial reporting issues and judgements arising in of internal audit summarising the status of the Reed connection with the interim financial statements: review of Elsevier risk management activities and the findings risk management activities: review of report from external from internal audit reviews and the actions agreed with auditors on control matters: review of internal audit management.
An area of focus in 2003 has been the findings development and agreement of plans to meet the new - August: review and approval of the interim financial requirements, effective for the 2005 financial year, of statements, results announcement and related formal Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to the statements: review of external audit findings: review of documentation and testing of internal financial controls.
internal audit findings v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2003 - December: review of year end financial reporting and and monitored execution.
Reviewed the resources and accounting issues: review of significant external financial budget of the internal audit function.
reporting and regulatory developments: review of external The external auditors have attended all meetings of the audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings.
They have provided written reports at the The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by August, December and February meetings summarising the the chief financial officer, group chief accountant, director of most significant findings from their audit work.
These internal audit and senior representatives of the external reports have been discussed by the Committees and actions auditors.
Additionally, the managing director and senior agreed where necessary.
representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed The external auditors have confirmed their independence Finance BV attend the August and February meetings of the from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier parent company Audit Committees.
At two or more of the policy on auditor independence.
This policy sets out inter meetings each year, the Committees additionally meet alia the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and separately with the external auditors without management other senior partners, as well as guidelines for the provision present, and also with the director of internal audit.
The Committees have In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of reviewed and agreed the non-audit services provided by the the 2003 financial year, the Committees have: external auditors, together with the associated fees.
The i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier external auditors fees for audit services have been reviewed Group plc group chief accountant that set out areas of and approved by the Committees.
significance in the preparation of the financial Based on their observations on the planning and execution statements, including: review of the carrying values of of the external audits, the Committees have recommended goodwill and intangible assets for possible impairment, to the respective boards that resolutions for the review of estimated useful lives of goodwill and re-appointment of the external auditors be proposed at the intangible assets, pensions accounting and related forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
At their meeting in assumptions, accounting treatment for acquisitions and June 2004, the Committees will conduct a more formal disposals and exceptional items, application of revenue review of the performance of the auditors and the recognition and cost capitalisation and provisioning effectiveness of the audit process for both the external and policies, review of tax reserves and provisions for lease internal audit activities.
Discussion of reporting matters has additionally focused on the adoption of UK GAAP by Lord Sharman of Redlynch Reed Elsevier NV, the format and content of the Chairman of the Audit Committees operating and financial review to meet the new UK best 18 February 2004 practice guidelines, and compliance with the new SEC restrictions on the use of non-GAAP financial measures in the Annual Report on Form 20-F. ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure requirements and have received regular 28 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
