qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 11 Directors report The Group operates an international network of business centres managed under three geographic regions, EMEA, Americas and Asia Pacific.
DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS Regus held its third European Works INTERESTS Council EWC meeting in September The directors present their report and the 2003 including all internally elected audited financial statements of the Group The directors who held office councillors from the member states, for the year ended 31 December 2003. during the year were: and chaired by Mr R J G Lobo.
The agenda covered Regus global M L J Dixon strategy and key goals for 2003, S A Stamp resigned 2 October 2003 PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Health and Safety updates, IT news, R J G Lobo corporate communications and HR J W Matthews The Group is engaged in the provision issues such as salaries, security and R G Orf of fully serviced business centres training and development.
Agreed A M Robinson offering clients a mix of workstations, actions and minutes were documented meeting and conference rooms and Details of the directors interests and and circulated.
The Group shareholdings are given in the Directors operates an international network Remuneration report on pages 16 to 22.
A further meeting of the EWC is planned of business centres managed under for mid 2004.
The number of employees three geographic regions, EMEA, In accordance with the Articles of and their remuneration are set out in Americas and Asia Pacific.
Association, Rudolf Lobo retires by note 5 to the financial statements.
The Chairmans Statement and the rotation and, being eligible, offers Operating and Financial reviews on himself for re-election at the Annual pages 3 to 9 describe the principal General Meeting.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE activities of the Group during 2003.
DONATIONS EMPLOYEES The Group made no political BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE contributions and no donations to UK DEVELOPMENTS It is the Groups policy to communicate charities in either 2003 or 2002. with all employees and to encourage The loss on ordinary activities before them to take a wider interest in the taxation for the year ended 31 December affairs of their employing company PAYMENT OF CREDITORS 2003 was 29.2 million 2002: loss and the Group.
This is done in a variety 119.1 million.
An indication of of ways, including electronic media, It is the policy of the Group to agree future developments is given in the in-house journals, bulletins and briefing terms of payment for its business Operating review.
The Group is committed to the transactions with its suppliers.
principle of equal opportunity in employment, regardless of a persons Payment is then made in accordance DIVIDENDS race, creed, nationality, sex, age, marital with these, subject to the terms and status or disability.
Employment policies conditions being met by the supplier.
No dividend is proposed 2002: nil.
are fair, equitable and consistent with the Trade creditor days of the Group for skills and abilities of the employees and the year ended 31 December 2003 were the needs of the Groups businesses.
The Company does not follow any code or standard These policies ensure that everyone on payment practice.
is accorded equal opportunity for recruitment, training and promotion.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Where an employee becomes disabled while employed by a Group company, every effort is made to enable that person to continue in employment.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 12 Directors report STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS RESPONSIBILITIES 1 Paramount Nominees Ltd 365,329,286 46.37% Company law requires the directors 2 Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 102,178,817 12.97% to prepare financial statements for GNI Limited 33,592,922 4.26% each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit The Company has been notified of the 1985 applies.
The agreement creates or loss for that period.
In preparing these above holders of 3% or more of its an interest for ICE SAS which is financial statements, the directors are issued share capital for the purposes disclosable pursuant to Section 208 4 required to: of Section 198 of the Companies Act and Section 208 5 of the Act.
1985, as at 29 March 2004: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 1 The beneficiary is Maxon Investments AUDITORS make judgments and estimates BV.
M L J Dixon owns 100% interest that are reasonable and prudent: in Maxon.
Pursuant to Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution 2 Of these 102,178,817 shares, state whether applicable accounting for the re-appointment of KPMG 50,500,000 are held by Cantor standards have been followed, subject Audit Plc as auditors of the Company Fitzgerald Europe as Nominee for to any material departures disclosed is to be proposed at the forthcoming Electronic Screen Brokerage Limited.
and explained in the financial Annual General Meeting.
Electronic Screen Brokerage Limited statements: and has a secured funding arrangement prepare the financial statements By order of the Board 29 March 2004 with ICE SAS and the shares form on the going concern basis unless part of the security for the funding.
it is inappropriate to presume that T S J Regan Electronic Screen Brokerage Limited the Company and Group will continue Company Secretary therefore also has a disclosable in business.
Regus Group plc interest in their 50,500,000 shares 3000 Hillswood Drive being 6.41% of the issued share Chertsey capital of Regus Group plc.
The directors are responsible for Surrey KT16 0RS keeping proper accounting records United Kingdom Pursuant to the secured funding which disclose, with reasonable accuracy arrangements, ICE SAS retained a at any time, the financial position of the beneficial interest in the 50,500,000 Company and to enable them to ensure shares which is disclosable pursuant that the financial statements comply to S208 4 b of the Companies Act with the Companies Act 1985.
A further 16,500,000 shares of the 102,178,817 shares are subject They have general responsibility for to an agreement between Cantor taking such steps as are reasonably Fitzgerald Europe and ICE SAS to open to them to safeguard the assets which Section 208 2 of the of the Company and of the Group Companies Act and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
qxd 5 4 04 5:17 pm Page 13 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE On 2 October 2003, Mr S A Stamp, BOARD COMMITTEES the Group Finance Director resigned.
The Board of Directors is committed to Mr R J G Lobo has been appointed The Board has a number of standing high standards of corporate governance.
Group Finance Director on an interim committees, which all have written terms It has complied throughout the year with basis, and will continue to carry out the of reference setting out their authority the Combined Code, issued by the UK role until a suitable candidate is found.
and duties: Listing Authority, which sets out the The Board schedules eight meetings Principles of Good Governance and the each year, but arranges to meet Audit Committee the members Code of Best Practice.
at other times, as appropriate.
of this Committee are Mr R G Orf Chairman and independent nonA summary of the Companys It has a formal schedule of matters executive director, Mr J W Matthews procedures for applying the principles specifically reserved for its decision non-executive director and Mr A M and the extent to which the provisions and approval.
The Board is supplied Robinson independent non-executive of the Combined Code have been with appropriate and timely information director.
Prior to 1 May 2003, it was applied are set out below.
to enable it to discharge its duties chaired by Mr J W Matthews.
and requests additional information The new Combined Code, issued in July or variations to regular reporting The Audit Committee meets quarterly.
2003, will apply for the reporting years as it requires.
Its responsibilities, in addition to those beginning on or after 1 November 2003. referred to under Internal Control, include However, in 2003, the Board undertook A procedure exists for directors to a critical review of the annual and interim an analysis of the Groups compliance seek independent professional advice financial statements including the with the new Combined Code and have at the Companys expense in the Boards statement on internal control taken steps to ensure that it complies furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
in the annual report prior to their with the requirements of the new In addition, appropriate training is made submission to the Board for approval, Combined Code by 31 December 2004. available for all new directors to assist when a report from the Committee them in the discharge of their is also given.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Committee also reviews the scope All directors have access to the advice and results of the external audit and its The Company has complied with the and services of the Company Secretary, cost effectiveness and the independence provisions set out in section 1 of the who is responsible for ensuring that and objectivity of the auditors.
Although Code of Best Practice prepared by the Board procedures are followed and other directors, including the Group Committee on Corporate Governance that applicable rules and regulations Finance Director, attend Audit Committee and published in June 1998 the are complied with.
meetings, the Committee can meet for Combined Code throughout the year private discussions with the internal and ended 31 December 2003.
All directors submit themselves for external auditors.
re-election at least every three years and directors appointed during the In respect of 2003, the Audit BOARD COMPOSITION period are required to seek re-election Committee undertook a comprehensive at the next AGM.
This comprised The Board currently comprises a questionnaire covering their two executive directors, and three The independent non-executive performance and that of the external nonexecutive directors two of which directors understand that the Board and internal auditors.
are independent, including a nonwill not automatically recommend their executive chairman.
