736505 1170 70 72 2 24 04 4:45 PM Page 71 The external auditors, the finance director, the all Group employees with a summary of the accordance with applicable accounting Group controller and Group internal auditor principal policies and procedures in place to standards, using the most appropriate attend meetings.
A copy of the Audit help ensure that high standards are met.
accounting policies for Rio Tintos business committee charter is reproduced on page 73 Policies are adopted by the directors after and supported by reasonable and prudent and can also be found on the Group website.
wide consultation, both externally and within judgments.
The accounting policies have The Remuneration committee is the Group.
Once adopted they are been consistently applied.
responsible for determining the policy for communicated to business units worldwide, The directors, senior management, senior executive remuneration and for the together with guidance and support on financial managers and other members of remuneration and benefits of individual implementation.
Business units are then staff who are required to exercise judgment in executive directors.
Full disclosure of all required to devote the necessary effort by the course of the preparation of the financial elements of directors and certain senior management to implement and report on statements are required to conduct executives remuneration can be found in the these policies.
themselves with integrity and honesty and in Remuneration report on pages 62 to 69, The way we work was reviewed and accordance with the ethical standards of their together with details of the Groups updated in 2003 to reflect best practice and profession and or business.
procedures were introduced to meet The directors are responsible for The Nominations committee is chaired by changed requirements.
The following policies maintaining proper accounting records, in the chairman of Rio Tinto.
It is the committees are currently in place: health, safety and the accordance with the UK Companies Act responsibility to ensure that there is a clear, environment: communities: human rights: 1985 and the Australian Corporations Act appropriate and transparent process in place access to land: employees: business 2001 as modified by the Australian Securities to source and appoint new directors.
Its integrity: bribery and corruption: corporate and Investment Commission order dated responsibilities also include evaluating the governance: compliance: external 21 July 2003, and have a general balance of skills, knowledge and experience disclosures, including continuous disclosure responsibility for taking such steps as are on the boards and identifying and nominating, and code of ethics covering the preparation reasonably open to them to safeguard the for the approval by the boards, candidates to of financial statements and political assets of the Group, and to prevent and fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
These policies apply to all detect fraud and other irregularities.
The committee reviews the structure, size and Rio Tinto managed businesses.
The directors are also responsible for the composition of the boards and make In line with best practice, the Group has maintenance and integrity of the Groups recommendations with regard to any changes in place a Group wide whistle blowing website.
The work carried out by the auditors it considers appropriate.
Finally, the committee programme entitled Speak-OUT.
Under this does not involve consideration of these reviews the time required to be committed to programme, employees are encouraged to matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept Group business by non executive directors report any concerns, including any suspicion no responsibility for any changes that may and assess whether non executive directors of a violation of the Groups financial reporting have occurred to the financial statements are spending enough time to carry out and environmental procedures, through an since they were initially loaded on the website.
independent third party and without fear of The Committee on social and recrimination.
Going concern environmental accountability is responsible for In the case of business partners, such The financial statements have been prepared reviewing the effectiveness of management as joint ventures and associated companies, on the going concern basis.
As required by policies and procedures in delivering the where the Group does not have operating the current Code, the directors report that standards set out in The way we work, responsibility, Rio Tintos policies are they have satisfied themselves that the Group Rio Tintos statement of business practice, communicated to them and they are is a going concern since it has adequate which do not fall within the remit of other encouraged to adopt similar policies of financial resources to continue in operational board committees and, in particular, those their own.
Practical advice is offered existence for the foreseeable future.
relating to health, safety, the environment and wherever appropriate.
The overall objective of the In 2001, the Association of British Boards statement on internal control committee is to promote the development of Insurers issued its guidelines relating to Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is business practices throughout the Group, socially responsible investment.
Rio Tintos to maximise long term shareholder value consistent with the high standards expected report on social and environmental matters through responsibly and sustainably investing of a responsibly managed company and to follows these guidelines and can be found on in mining and related assets.
The directors develop the necessary clear accountability on pages 55 and 56 of 2003 Annual report and recognise that creating shareholder value is these practices.
financial statements and on pages 22 to 25 the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Details of the The directors are responsible for the Directors dealings in shares Groups overall and individual businesses Groups system of internal control and for Rio Tinto has a Group policy in place to social and environmental performance reviewing its effectiveness in providing govern the dealing in Rio Tinto securities.
The continue to be published on Rio Tintos shareholders with a return on their policy, which can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website: www.
com investments that is consistent with a website, is no less stringent than the Model responsible assessment and mitigation of Code set out in the UK Listing Rules.
Responsibilities of the directors risks.
This includes reviewing financial, Directors and employees are prohibited from The directors are required by UK and operational and compliance controls, and risk dealing when in possession of price sensitive Australian company law to prepare financial management procedures.
Directors and certain employees statements for each financial period which limitations inherent in any such system, this is are prohibited from dealing during the close give a true and fair view of the state of affairs designed to manage rather than eliminate periods which are the periods of up to two of the Group as at the end of the financial risk.
Accordingly, it provides reasonable, but months before a profit announcement.
period and of the profit or loss and cash not absolute assurance, against material Directors and designated employees are also flows for that period.
To ensure that this misstatement or loss.
prohibited from dealing in Rio Tinto securities requirement is satisfied the directors are The directors have established a process at any time on considerations of a short responsible for establishing and maintaining for identifying, evaluating and managing the term nature.
adequate internal controls and procedures for significant risks faced by the Group.
financial reporting throughout the Group.
This process was in place during 2003 and Statement of business practice The directors consider that the financial up to and including the date of approval of The way we work provides the directors and statements have been prepared in the 2003 Annual report and financial Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
