B is where the options are in respect of shares whose market price at the end of the financial year is below the option exercise price.
Notes 1 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10p each: Rio Tinto Limited shares stated in italics.
2 Options have been granted under the Share Option Plan, the Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan and the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan.
3 The options granted to each director have been aggregated, except that any out of the money options as at 31 December 2003 have been separately aggregated and disclosed.
The closing price of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 31 December 2003 was 1,543p 2002: 1,240p and the closing price of Rio Tinto Limited shares at 31 December 2003 was A$37.54 2002:A$33.95.
4 Two directors were granted share options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan that are exercisable between 1 January 2009 and 30 June 2009.
One was granted options over 1,431 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 1,107p per share and the other was granted options over 1,431 Rio Tinto Limited shares at A$27.48 per share.
5 All other share options were granted under the Share Option Plan and, subject to the performance criteria explained on page 63, are exercisable between 7 March 2006 and 7 March 2013.
Options were granted over 569,674 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares at 1,263p per share and over 344,212 Rio Tinto Limited shares at A$33.336 per share.
6 No directors options lapsed during the year.
Following Mr Leslies resignation 167,951 of his options were cancelled with immediate effect.
Following Sir Robert Wilsons retirement 124,318 of his options were also cancelled.
7 Or at date of retirement or resignation if earlier.
Rio Tintos register of directors interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for Rio Tinto shares.
68 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements REMUNERATION REPORT 736505 1160 62 69 2 24 04 1:49 PM Page 69 Table 6 Total remuneration as required under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 Base Annual Other Subtotal Pension Value of Adjusted for 2003 2 3 1 salary cash bonus benefits contributions long term the term of the Total fees incentive Performance 4 5 Stated in US$000 shares Period US$ Chairman Paul Skinner 275 7 282 282 Non executive directors Sir David Clementi 80 80 80 Leon Davis 245 245 245 Sir Richard Giordano 156 156 156 Andrew Gould 91 91 91 Sir John Kerr 18 18 18 David Mayhew 91 91 91 John Morschel 123 123 123 The Hon.
The amounts, with the exception of the annual cash bonus, can be converted into sterling at the rate of 1 US$1.633 or alternatively, into Australian dollars at the rate of US$1 A$1.5434, each being the average exchange rate for the year.
The annual cash bonus can be converted at the year end exchange rates of 1 US$1.78 to ascertain the sterling equivalent or alternatively, US$1 A$1.3355 to find the Australian dollar value.
Directors remuneration included in the first three columns are as reported in Table 1, converted into US dollars.
2 Includes provision of medical cover, car, fuel, 401K contributions in the US, educational assistance, leaving gifts, company paid tax, professional advice, accomodation and costs associated with secondment.
3 Includes actual contributions payable to both defined contribution and defined benefit arrangements that are required to secure the pension benefits earned in the year.
4 The amount of long term share based compensation represents the estimated value of awards granted under the Rio Tinto Share Option Plan the SOP, the Share Savings Plan the SSP and the Mining Companies Comparative Plan the MCCP.
The estimated value has been calculated using an independent binomial model provided by external consultants Lane, Clark and Peacock LLP.
The value of long term share based compensation has been valued in accordance with the guidelines as detailed in the Australian Securities & Investments Commission media release dated 30 June 2003.
5 Under Australian GAAP the value of unvested share grants should be spread equally over the term of each scheme's performance period.
This adjustment averages the value of the long term incentive shares over a three year period in respect of the SOP, a four year period in respect of the MCCP and the length of the relevant contract period under the SSP.
6 The number of share options granted under the Share Option Plan to the five highest paid senior executives in the twelve month period up to 31 December 2003 are as follows: Mr Albanese 139,165 and Mr Chiaro 37,160 over Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares, Mr Renwick 95,392, Mr Walsh 75,863 and Mr Klingner 20,956 over Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
The options are subject to the performance criteria explained on page 63 and are exercisable between 7 March 2006 and 6 March 2013.
Options were granted at 1,263p per ordinary Rio Tinto plc share and at A$33.336 per ordinary Rio Tinto Limited share.
The number of conditional shares awarded under the Mining Companies Comparative Plan in respect of the same five senior executives and the same twelve month period to 31 December 2003 are as follows: Mr Albanese 19,274 and Mr Chiaro 7,352 over Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and Mr Renwick 21,230, Mr Walsh 16,884 and Mr Klingner 10,961 over Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
The market prices of the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were 1,198p and A$30.69 respectively.
Mr Albanese was granted 530 share options over Rio Tinto ordinary shares under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan at an option price of 11.50.
These may be exercised between 1 January 2006 and 7 January 2006.
The number of share options and conditional shares awarded to the executive directors are shown in Tables 4 and 5 of this report.
The non executive directors do not participate in the long term incentive share schemes.
Auditable part Tables 1, 2, 4 and 5 comprise the auditable part of the Remuneration report, being the information required by Part 3 of schedule 7a to the Companies Act 1985.
Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 69 REMUNERATION REPORT 736505 1170 70 72 2 24 04 4:49 PM Page 70 Corporate governance Rio Tinto is committed to high standards is a former chief executive of the Group and directors to obtain independent professional of corporate governance, for which the David Mayhew is chairman of one of advice at the Groups expense in furtherance directors are accountable to shareholders.
The directors of their duties as directors.
They also have Over the last several years, corporate biographies are set out on pages 58 and 59. access to the advice and services of both governance discussions have taken centre company secretaries.
stage in the UK, Australia and the US, where Chairman and chief executive Rio Tinto has its three main listings.
In setting The roles of the chairman and chief executive Election and re-election out the Groups corporate governance are separate and the division of their All directors are elected by shareholders at statement, the boards have therefore referred responsibilities has been formally approved by the annual general meetings following their to the Combined Code as attached to the the boards.
appointment and, thereafter, are subject to UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules the re-election at least once every three years.
current Code, the new Combined Code The role of the board Non executive directors are normally the new Code, the ASX Best Practice Collectively, the non executive directors bring expected to serve at least two terms of Corporate Governance Guidelines and the broadly based knowledge and experience to three years and, except where special NYSE Corporate Governance Listing the boards deliberations and their circumstances justify it, would not normally Standards, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley contribution is vital to corporate accountability.
serve more than three such terms.
As recommended in the new Code, they have Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have agreed performance targets for management Board performance adopted a common approach to corporate against the Groups 2004 financial plan.
Both Companies have, for the The boards had eight scheduled and one Code and Principle 8 of the ASX Best period under review, applied the principles special meeting in 2003.
Details of directors Practice Corporate Governance Guidelines, contained in Part 1 of the current Code.
The attendances at board and committee the performance of Rio Tintos board, its detailed provisions of Section 1 of the current meetings are set out in the Directors report committees and individual directors have Code have been complied with as described on page 61. been evaluated.
The assessment has been below.
As at the date of the Directors report In line with best practice, the boards have carried out by external advisers and has both Companies also complied with the ASX regular scheduled discussions on various covered the following areas: board dynamics: Best Practice Corporate Governance aspects of the Groups strategy.
In addition, board capability: board process: corporate Guidelines.
In addition, Rio Tinto has one meeting was a two day meeting, the governance, strategic clarity and alignment: voluntarily adopted the recommendations of main purpose of which was an in depth board structure: and the performance of the US Blue Ribbon Committee in respect of discussion of Group strategy.
In the opinion of the disclosures to shareholders, as detailed in the the business is the responsibility of executive boards they comply with the requirements of Audit committees statement on page 72. management.
The board approves strategy, the new Code and the ASX Best Practice Rio Tinto intends to include on its website a major investments and acquisitions and is Corporate Governance Guidelines.
It is the brief summary of significant differences, if any, ultimately accountable to the shareholders for intention of the boards to continue to review in the way its corporate governance practices the performance of the business.
both board and director performance on an differ from those followed by US companies All directors have full and timely access to annual basis.
the information required to discharge their The boards will continue to monitor responsibilities fully and effectively.
Board committees developments in the corporate governance There is a formal schedule of matters The directors have established four area in Rio Tintos three principal share specifically reserved for decision by the committees, all of which are fundamental to markets.
boards, a copy of which is posted on the good corporate governance in the Group.
A statement relating to directors Groups website.
This schedule is reviewed All committee terms of reference are reviewed responsibilities for going concern and regularly to ensure continued relevance.
annually by the boards and the committees preparation of the financial statements is on Going forward, the chairman will be themselves, and appear on the Groups pages 71 and 72. holding meetings with non executive directors website.
Regular reports of committee without the executive directors present.
business and activities are given to the The board Furthermore the non executive directors will boards and minutes are circulated to all The Companies have common boards of meet annually in a meeting chaired by the directors.
Committee members, shown on directors, which are collectively responsible senior non executive director to appraise the pages 58 and 59, are all non executive for the success of the Group.
The Audit committees main Board composition Communication with the investor responsibilities include the review of On 1 November 2003, Paul Skinner, until community accounting principles, policies and practices then an independent non executive director, The main channels of communication with adopted in the preparation of public financial became chairman, succeeding Sir Robert the investor community are through the chief information: the review with management of Wilson, who retired after 33 years with executive, the finance director and the procedures relating to financial and capital Rio Tinto.
The boards currently comprise chairman.
The Group also organises regular expenditure controls, including internal audit 14 directors, four executive and nine non investor seminars, which provide a two way plans and reports: the review with external executive directors and the chairman.
communication with investors and analysts, auditors of the scope and results of their The boards have reviewed the with valuable feedback which is audit: the nomination of auditors for independence of all non executive directors communicated to the boards.
In addition, appointment by shareholders: and the review and determined that, of the nine non the Groups external investor relations of and recommendation to the board for executive directors, seven are independent.
advisors carry out a survey of major approval of Rio Tintos risk management Notwithstanding that Sir Richard Giordano shareholders opinion and perception of the policy.
Its responsibilities also include the has served as a director since 1992, the Group.
The ensuing report is distributed and review of corporate governance practices of strength, objectivity and nature of his a formal annual presentation is made to the Group sponsored pension funds.
contribution to board and committee boards on the subject.
A number of training sessions, which may discussions were fully consistent with those cover new legislation and other relevant of an independent director.
Two have Independent advice information, have been incorporated into the connections with the Group: Leon Davis A procedure has been established for committees normal schedule of business.
70 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
