Corporate governance The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and ensures that appropriate procedures are in place.
During the period under review the Company has applied the are appointed for an initial term that expires three years after the principles set out in the Combined Code incorporated into the first Annual General Meeting at which they were elected a Director rules of the UK Listing Authority and has complied throughout of the Company.
If mutually agreed, and subject to the Chairmans 2003 with each of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the review of performance and subsequent Nomination Committee Combined Code except in relation to the notice period under approval, the non-executive Directors term of office will be extended Grard Letourneaus service contract, the reasons for which are for a further three-year period following which the normal practice explained in the Remuneration Report on page 41. would be for there to be no further extensions to the term of office.
Non-executive Directors will not normally continue in office past their Following the review of the role and effectiveness of non- 68th birthday, and in no circumstances will non-executive Directors executive directors carried out by Derek Higgs, the Combined continue in office past their 70th birthday.
Alastair Robinson and Bill Code has been amended.
This new Code will apply to the Alexander offer themselves for re-election at the 2004 Annual General Companys current reporting year i. e. 2004.
Following formal performance evaluations, the Board the Companys existing corporate governance procedures have considers that both Directors continue to be effective and demonstrate been thoroughly reviewed by the Board and, where necessary, commitment to their roles.
Alastair Robinson, if re-elected at the 2004 action has been taken to bring the Companys procedures Annual General Meeting, will retire at the 2005 Annual General into line with the new requirements.
At that time, he will have served nine years since he was first of the Companys corporate governance procedures are elected to the Board and, as such, may then no longer be considered as follows.
independent under the new Combined Code.
Directors Board appraisals There are 12 Directors on the Board of the Company, five are During the year under review an appraisal of the Board, each Board executive and seven are non-executive.
Short biographical details are committee, and the performance of individual Directors, was carried given on pages 30 and 31.
The Board considers each of the nonout.
The appraisal of the Board and the Committees was undertaken executive Directors to be independent.
The posts of non-executive using a questionnaire which was completed by each Director.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive, which are clearly separated A summary of their responses was reviewed by the Chairman and and defined, are held by Sir John Parker and David Munro respectively.
the Nomination Committee prior to submission of the results to the David Munro was appointed Group Chief Executive on 19 January whole Board.
Appraisal of the executive and non-executive Directors 2004 following Stuart Walkers resignation and subsequent retirement individual performance was conducted by the Chairman by holding from the Board on 28 January 2004.
Alastair Robinson is the senior a meeting with each Director and basing the discussion around a independent non-executive Director.
The Board, which meets at least 10 times a year, has a formal The non-executive Directors normally meet twice a year with schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The principal the Chairman and Group Chief Executive to discuss and evaluate responsibilities of the Board are the strategy of the Group, its overall the performance of the Group and the Board.
The non-executive financial and operational performance and the corporate governance Directors, chaired by the senior independent Director, meet once of the Group.
The Directors are provided, before each Board meeting, a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance.
with the appropriate information relating to matters to be discussed.
Further information is supplied on any significant issues which arise Board Committees between Board meetings and when specifically requested by a Director.
There are three principal Board Committees, each of which regularly A procedure has been established for Directors to obtain independent reports to the Board and each of which has clear Terms of Reference professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their which can be found on the Groups website www.
All Directors have access to the advice and services These are as follows.
If a Director is appointed to the Board and has not held a similar position previously, he she will be asked to Nomination Committee attend a course on the role of a director of a public company.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir John Parker and is composed exclusively of independent non-executive Directors.
The All Directors are elected by shareholders at the Annual General other members of the Committee are Alastair Robinson, Sir Keith Meeting following their appointment and, thereafter, are subject to Stuart and Bill Alexander.
The main responsibilities of the Committee, re-election at least once every three years.
Non-executive Directors which meets at least twice a year, are: 34 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates considering and making recommendations to the Board, in relation to fill Board vacancies, both executive and non-executive, as and when to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys they arise: and external Auditors: overseeing the relationship with the external reviewing the performance evaluations of the Board and its principal Auditors, including assessing annually their independence and Committees, prior to submission to the Board.
objectivity and approving their remuneration and terms of engagement: and Normally the Chairman takes the lead on the appointment of monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Directors.
Recruitment consultants, used to assist in this process, are internal Audit function, the annual internal audit work plan, and the proposed by the Chairman and their appointment is approved by the major findings of internal audit reviews and managements response Committee.
The Chairman conducts preliminary interviews of the to those reviews.
Each candidate is then interviewed by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and members of the Nomination As part of its remit, the Audit Committee also keeps under review Committee.
Following final interviews the Nomination Committee the nature and extent of audit and non-audit services provided to the recommends a candidate to the Board for approval.
Possible new Group by the Auditors.
During the year the Committee reassessed non-executive Directors are considered against the requirements of its policy and approved a new set of procedures in relation to the the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
appointment of external Auditors to undertake audit and non-audit work.
Under this policy: Remuneration Committee the award of audit-related services to the Auditors in excess of The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Keith Stuart and is 50,000 must first be approved by the Chairman of the Audit composed exclusively of independent non-executive Directors, details Committee, who in his decision to approve will take into account of which are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 38 to 44. the aggregate of audit-related revenue already earned by the Group The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Auditor in that year.
Audit-related services are assurance services or Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, other work traditionally provided to RMC by the Auditors, and Group Chief Executive, the executive Directors and members of the which usually result in a certification or specific opinion on an Executive Committee who are not also members of the Board, and investigation.
They include formalities relating to borrowing, determines and approves their specific remuneration, benefits and shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports, work relating terms of employment.
Full disclosure of all elements of Directors to disposals and acquisitions, tax assurance work and advice on remuneration is set out in the Remuneration report on pages 38 to 44. accounting policies: the award of tax consulting services to the Auditors in excess of Audit Committee 100,000 must first be approved by the Chairman of the Audit The Audit Committee is chaired by Alastair Robinson and is composed Committee: exclusively of independent non-executive Directors.
The other the Auditors will be prohibited from performing any general consulting members of the Committee are Philip Hampton and Helmut Mamsch.
work or non-audit services, other than tax consulting services: and During the year under review, Sir John Parker, the non-executive the Auditors will be required to make a formal report to the Audit Chairman, resigned from the Committee in accordance with the Committee annually on the safeguards that are in place to maintain recommendations of the Smith Review.
Sir Keith Stuart, who is also their independence and the internal safeguards in place to ensure a member of the Nomination Committee and the Chairman of the their objectivity.
Remuneration Committee, resigned from the Committee during the year in order to balance the workload more effectively across the The Auditors continue to operate procedures to safeguard against non-executive Directors.
All of the Committee members have the possibility that their objectivity and independence could be significant financial experience due to the senior positions they hold compromised.
These include the use of independent review partners or held in other listed companies, and one of the members of the and annual independence confirmations by all staff.
The Auditors Committee is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
report to the Audit Committee on matters including independence and non-audit fees annually.
In addition, the role of the audit partner The external Auditors, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance is rotated periodically.
Director and Head of Group Internal Audit normally attend meetings of the Committee.
The Audit Committee periodically meets separately A full statement of the audit fees, together with those for non-audit with the external Auditors without the management present.
The services in 2003, is set out in Note 3 on page 58.
Committee met four times during 2003, and its main responsibilities are set out in the Audit Committee Terms of Reference.
The primary Whistle blowing function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its In accordance with the new Combined Code, the Audit Committee responsibility by: Terms of Reference require the Committee to review arrangements by monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Company, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
One of judgements which they contain: focusing on compliance with the Committees objectives is to ensure that arrangements are in place accounting standards and any changes in accounting policies and for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters practices, and reviewing with the external Auditors the planned and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Company is in the process scope of their audit and subsequently their audit findings: of introducing a Group-wide Whistle Blowing programme.
It is reviewing any statements to be made by the Company in its Annual intended that this will be available to all employees who are encouraged Report and Accounts on internal control systems and generally to report any concerns or suspicions with regard to a violation of keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys financial the Groups financial reporting procedures or any other matters.
reporting and internal control systems for the identification, The programme which will be introduced during 2004, will be run by assessment and reporting of risks: a third-party organisation and will use a 24-hour free phone service.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 35 Corporate governance continued Board statement on internal control Annual budgets are prepared for each local profit centre.
These Internal control include monthly projections of profits, capital expenditure, cash The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and flow and borrowings.
The budgets are reviewed through the for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage management structure, culminating in a Group Budget, which is rather than eliminate a risk of failure to achieve business objectives considered and approved by the Board.
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Line management prepare monthly management accounts, which material misstatement or loss.
compare actual operating results, both with budget and with those of the previous year.
These accounts are reviewed by line There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing management and are then produced in consolidated form for the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place consideration and approval by the Board.
during 2003 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report Authorisation limits are set at appropriate levels throughout the and Accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Group.
Compliance with these limits is closely monitored through the Turnbull Guidance.
A review by the Board of the effectiveness of the Groups system of Risk management and internal operational and compliance control internal control was carried out in 2003.
This included reviewing The Risk Committee, which is chaired by Graham Clark, an financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management executive Director, oversees and reviews the Groups internal control procedures.
This review is undertaken on an annual basis.
In fulfilling this function the Committee defines the Groups risk control environment and, on an Details of the internal control procedures that are in place are as follows.
ongoing basis, identifies and evaluates significant risks to the Group and ensures these risks are appropriately managed.
The Board Internal financial control considers significant risks at each meeting and the Risk Committee The Audit Committee, the membership and role of which is reports to the Board on its activities on a regular basis.
described more fully on page 35, has responsibility for overseeing Its membership comprises senior executives with responsibility for internal financial control and reports to the Board.
relevant functional areas at the corporate headquarters and senior A review and appraisal of internal financial controls is completed executives with responsibility for significant parts of the Groups annually, by the management of each country in which RMC operations.
operates, to confirm that there is an appropriate management Regular reviews of the operational risks within each of the Groups structure, effective controls to safeguard assets and reliable businesses is undertaken by local management teams who are accounting records.
Managing directors and finance directors of responsible for confirming that they are satisfied that there are all subsidiaries are required at the year end to sign a statement effective risk management compliance and operational controls in confirming the effectiveness of internal financial controls, and place.
Half-yearly reports are made to the Risk Committee providing complete a questionnaire confirming they are satisfied with the level details of any significant risks and the action being taken to mitigate of controls to safeguard assets, maintain proper accounting records such risks.
Details of significant risks identified are reported to and produce reliable financial information.
These statements and the Board.
questionnaires are reviewed by the local internal audit manager and a statement is given confirming the consistency of the replies The Group Internal Audit function undertakes regular reviews of the with the internal audit work performed during the year.
risk management process in the Groups businesses.
The results of The Group internal audit function undertakes regular reviews of audit reviews are reported to local management, Group management the systems of internal financial control in the Groups businesses.
and the Risk and Audit Committees.
The results of audit reviews are reported to local management, Group management and the Audit Committee.
There are also ongoing processes for overseeing environmental, health The Groups management structure is based on the creation of and safety and competition law compliance.
local profit centres for each of the Groups businesses.
These are Environmental risks are monitored by the Board Environment organised into countries, regions and activities.
There are clearly Committee and an annual report is given to the Board on the defined lines of management responsibilities at all levels up to and Groups environmental performance.
The membership of this including the Board.
The Groups accounting and reporting Committee is detailed on page 31. functions reflect this organisation.
36 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Board and Committee attendance 2003 Board Exec Audit Remuneration Nomination Finance Health & Safety Environment meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Name 12 13 4 6 5 5 6 2 Sir John Parker 12 5 S R Walker 9 9 2 A R Auer appointed 14.1.
03 12 12 5 G E Clark 10 11 5 M G Foster 12 13 6 2 P R Hampton 10 3 4 G Letourneau 11 13 2 H Mamsch 12 4 J R P Pike 12 5 F A L Robinson 11 4 5 4 Sir Keith Stuart 12 6 5 W J Alexander 7 6 3 Total number of meetings held during the year.
A competition law compliance policy is in place across the Group.
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Under the policy, relevant employees in each country receive for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
guidance and training and are required to confirm compliance with the policy each year.
In addition, procedures are in place for the The work carried out by the external Auditors does not involve monitoring of contact with competitors.
The policy is monitored at consideration of the RMC corporate website and, accordingly, the Group level through a combination of reporting requirements and Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have internal audits and all executive Directors confirm annually that, to occurred to the Financial statements since they were initially the best of their knowledge and belief, no anti-competitive practices presented on the website.
are occurring in the areas of the business for which they are responsible.
The measures taken to implement the policy are Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and reviewed regularly to ensure they remain effective in seeking to dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in prevent anti-competitive practices occurring within the Group.
The Groups Health and Safety Policy is monitored by the Board Health and Safety Committee, the membership of which is detailed Relations with shareholders on page 31.
The Group regularly carries out internal health and The Company has regular dialogue with investors.
safety performance reviews and benchmarks against other national and international organisations.
In addition to the formal announcements of half-year and full-year results, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance regular meetings with institutional investors, fund managers, and that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the Groups financial analysts throughout the year.
During the year, the Chairman situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the and the senior independent non-executive Director separately held business.
meetings with a number of the Companys major shareholders.
The Companys Investor Relations department acts as a focal point Statement of Directors responsibilities for contact with investors throughout the year.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders are advised of the of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group Companys performance over the previous year and are offered for that period.
an opportunity to raise with the Board and respective Committee Chairmen any specific questions they have concerning the Group.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: Formal notification of the Annual General Meeting is sent to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently, shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details with the exception of those noted in Accounting Policies: of the 2004 Annual General Meeting are set out in the Circular make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: enclosed with this Report and Accounts.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the RMCs website www.
com provides access to current Financial statements: and financial and business information about the Group, including an prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis, unless investor information section.
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Going concern The operation of the Groups control procedures gives the Directors The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group has requirements in preparing the Financial statements.
adequate resource to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 37
