RPS Group Plc 36 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance Committee In order to manage effectively the Groups structure and organisation during a time when expectations about the nature and standards of Corporate Governance have been changing significantly and rapidly, RPS has established a Corporate Governance Committee.
This comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary: other Directors are consulted as necessary.
The Committee reviews issues as they arise and is also responsible for keeping the Board appraised about the implications in respect of changes to the Combined Code.
The work of the Corporate Governance Committee is, therefore, reflected into the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees as well as the structure, composition and operation of the Group Board, including the production of the policies described in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report pages 53 to 59.
Combined Code In the opinion of the Board the Chairman and all the other Non-Executive Directors are independent from the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and the statement set out below describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code already referred to above are applied by the Company.
The Board confirms that for the whole of the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, which was issued on 25th June 1998.
In the opinion of the Board the Chairman and all the other Non-Executive Directors are independent from the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and pages 24 to 59 describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code already referred to above are applied by the Company.
The Board has established a Corporate Governance Committee to examine compliance and associated issues and advise the Board upon them.
The members of all committees are noted on page 34.
The New Combined Code on Corporate Governance was published in July 2003.
The new Code applies to reporting years beginning on or after 1st November 2003.
The Corporate Governance Committee has reviewed RPSs performance against the recommendations in the Code.
In summary the position is as follows: Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 24 include a statement of how the Board operates.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent A.
1.2 Compliant 26 27 Non-Executive Director and Chairman and members of Nomination, Audit and 31 32 34 Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the Executives A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of the A.
1.4 Compliant 24 Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split, and the individual roles A.
2.1 Compliant 24 clearly set out in writing.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 24 RPS Group Plc 37 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 26 31 considers to be independent.
32 33 At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Independent A.
Group is currently looking to appoint an additional Independent Non-Executive Director The Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be A.
3.3 Compliant 31 52 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders.
There should be a Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee should make A.
4.1 Compliant 48 available its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and A.
4.2 Compliant 49 experience on the Board and evaluate the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
On appointment of a Chairman, the Nomination Committee should prepare a A.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors should be made A.
4.4 Compliant 44 available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The annual report should describe the work of the Nomination Committee, including A.
4.6 Compliant 49 processes it has used in relation to Board appointments.
New Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
5.1 Compliant 24 Shareholders should be offered the opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive.
All Directors should have access to independent professional advice.
5.2 Compliant 24 Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, A.
5.3 Compliant 24 who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board should state in the annual report how it evaluates performance of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 24 its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
All Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General A.
7.1 Compliant Notice Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more of than three years.
Meeting The Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to A.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive should be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Non-Executive Directors can serve longer than nine years.
Serving more than nine years could be relevant in determining a Non-Executive Directors independence.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant proportion of B.
1.1 Compliant 43 the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
Share options should not be offered at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 43 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect the time commitment and B.
1.3 Compliant 44 responsibilities of the role.
The Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation commitments their B.
1.5 Compliant 43 Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
Notice or contract periods of Executive Directors should be one year or less.
1.6 Compliant 44 Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 38 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page A Remuneration Committee should be established with at least three Independent B.
The Remuneration Committee should have published terms of reference.
The Remuneration Committee should set remuneration for all executives and the B.
The Remuneration Committee should recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Board should determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.3 Compliant 44 Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive B.
2.4 Compliant 42 schemes and significant changes to existing schemes.
The Directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing accounts C. 1.1 Compliant 65 66 and a statement, by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors should report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 64 The Board should conduct at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups C. 2.1 Compliant 39 system of internal controls and should report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Board should establish an Audit Committee with at least three members who C. 3.1 Compliant 46 should all be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee should be set out in written terms C. 3.2 3.3 Compliant 46 of reference.
This should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, C. 3.4 Compliant 46 in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an internal C. 3.5 Compliant 47 audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation on C. 3.6 Compliant 47 the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
If the Board does not accept the Audit Committees recommendation it should include C3.6 Compliant n a in its annual report a statement explaining why the Board take a different position.
The annual report should explain to shareholders how independence is safeguarded if the C. 3.7 Compliant 46 auditor provides non audit services.
The Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are disclosed to the D. 1.1 Compliant 52 Board as a whole.
The Chairman should discuss governance and strategy to the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the shareholders.
The Board should state in their annual report the steps they have taken to ensure D. 1.2 Compliant 52 Board members develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Company.
The Company should count all proxy votes and indicate the level of proxies lodged on D. 2.1 Compliant each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions.
The Company should ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
The Company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantially D. 2.2 Compliant separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating to the report and accounts.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees should attend the AGM D. 2.3 Compliant 52 in order to be available to answer questions.
The Company should arrange for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to D. 2.4 Compliant shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
RPS Group Plc 39 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Communication The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders.
The full report and accounts are made available to all shareholders and to other parties who have an interest in the Groups performance.
The Company responds to numerous letters from shareholders and customers on a wide range of issues.
The Companys web site provides up to date information about its organisation, the services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 65 and 66 and the statement of the Directors in respect of on going concern appears on page 64.
The Board has procedures in place as recommended in the guidance in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance and Turnbull: Guidance on Internal Controls and these have been in place for the whole year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The risk management policies are described on page 50.
The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board keeps under continuous review the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control from information provided by management and the Groups external auditors.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to provide effective internal financial controls are as follows: Financial reporting: A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.
The results for the Group are reported monthly against this budget to the Board.
Financial and accounting principles and internal financial controls assurance: Compliance with these is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
A comprehensive financial and accounting controls manual sets out the principles of and minimum standards required by the Board for effective financial control.
Capital investment: The Company has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements where businesses are being acquired.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 40 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report The Directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year were: Brook Land Chairman up to September 2003, Roger Devlin Chairman from September 2003, Paul Martin, Chris Wood who resigned on 30th April 2003 and Rob Thielen who was appointed in January 2003.
The Chief Executive has assisted the Remuneration Committee in their deliberations on other Directors remuneration, but does not attend the meetings of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Halliwell Consulting in August 2003 to provide advice on compensation and share incentives at all levels in the Group.
No other services were provided to the Company by Halliwell Consulting.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee: the Committee has been delegated responsibility by the Board to determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Employees of the Company: the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the executive members of the Board who take advice from the independent consultants.
No Director or manager is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration: within the terms of the agreed policy, determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, benefits, long-term incentive payments and share options: determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements for each Executive Director: determine targets for any performance-related pay and share schemes operated by the Company: in determining such packages and arrangements, give due regard to the comments and recommendations of the Combined Code as well as the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance: ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised, in line with the statement of best practice in the ABI Guidelines: ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Code, are fulfilled: be aware of and advise on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group: be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria, selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee: meet as required during the year: report the frequency of, and attendance by members at, Remuneration Committee meetings in the annual report see page 34.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committees policy is to set the main elements of the remuneration package at the following quartiles in comparison to the Companys comparator group and with a clear and defined emphasis on pay for performance: Base salary Annual bonus potential Share incentives Between Median to Lower Quartile Median Median to Lower Quartile The policy is designed to: attract, retain and motivate individuals by providing the opportunity to earn competitive levels of compensation provided performance is delivered whilst remaining within the range of compensation offered by similar companies in the sector: focus individuals on the continued long-term growth and success of the Company: and offer a total compensation package which takes into consideration the interests of the Company, its shareholders and employees.
Directors remuneration will be the subject of regular review in accordance with this policy in the next and following financial years to ensure that remuneration remains competitive and challenging.
RPS Group Plc 41 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued The charts below demonstrate the increasing amount of compensation which is performance related for each Executive Director: Analysis of fixed versus performance related pay for Executive Directors % 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 Alan S Hearne Peter B Dowen Andrew R G Troup Gary Young 1 Fixed 43 1 Fixed 44 1 Fixed 44 1 Fixed 67 2 Variable 57 2 Variable 56 2 Variable 56 2 Variable 33 Base salary Policy Median to Lower Quartile When determining the salary of the Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee has taken into consideration: the levels of base salary for similar positions within a comparator group of 34 companies which are members of the FTSE All Share Support Services Sector: the performance of the individual Executive Director: the individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and the pay and conditions throughout the company.
Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis.
The companies comprising the comparator group are as follows: ACAL Interserve RAC AEA Technology Intertek Regus Group Aggreeko Jarvis Reliance Security Atkins WS John Laing Ricardo Babcock International Group Johnson Service Group RPC Group BPP Mentmore Securicor BTG Menzies John SercoGroup Business Post Group Michael Page South Staffordshire Group Communisis Mitie Speedy Hire Danka Business Systems Peterhouse Tribal Group Davis Service Group PHS fide La Rue Premier Farnell This group was identified by Halliwell Consulting, without reference to any of the Executives.
The Comparator Group has out performed the FTSE Support Services index in terms of total shareholder return over the past five years.
This group will be amended for the 2004 remuneration review and first grants under the proposed new LTIP to take into account shareholder comments on its constituents during the consultation process on the new remuneration policy and share plans.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 42 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued The basis of selection of the group was: companies within the same sector as the company: and companies with a range of market capitalisations such that the Company sits within the middle of the comparator groups.
Performance bonus Policy: Median To ensure that there is a greater emphasis towards the performance element of the compensation package the Remuneration Committee increased the maximum annual cash bonus potential for 2003 from 50% of salary to 60% for the Chief Executive and from 30% to 40% for the other Executive Directors and increased the earnings per share performance target which must be satisfied for maximum bonus payout.
For 2003 the Companys earnings per share growth exceeded the rate of inflation by 18.1%, thereby triggering a cash bonus for the Chief Executive of 56.2% and for the Executive Directors of 36.2%.
The following table shows in detail the level of bonus earned for a given level of earnings per share performance under the 2003 bonus plan: Earnings per Share Bonus earned by Chief Bonus earned by Executive Performance above RPI Executive percentage of Salary Directors percentage of Salary Below 15% 0% 0% 15% 50% 30% Actual Performance 18.1% 56.2% 36.2% Maximum 20% 60% 40% The Companys rolling dilution for the purposes of the ABI guidelines is less than 1% pa.
The details of the Executive Directors Bonus Plan for 2004 are contained in the Shareholders Circular accompanying these report and accounts.
Long-term incentives Policy: Median For 2003 and earlier years this comprised annual grants of options.
The Remuneration Committee set out the level of the option grant to the Executive Directors of the Company at the median level.
The Performance Conditions attached to the Share Options granted to the Directors under the Executive Share Option Schemes are that: Ordinary Options may only be exercised if, over any three year measurement period of the Company, beginning no earlier than the financial year during which the option is granted, the percentage growth in earnings per share exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the same period by at least 3% per annum, being 9% for the three year period.
Super Options may only be exercised if, over any five year measurement period of the Company, beginning no earlier than the financial year during which the option is granted, the percentage growth in earnings per share exceeds the growth in the Retail Price Index over the same period by at least 6% per annum, being 30% for the five year period.
It is also necessary for the share price to rise over both the three and five year periods to make the exercise worthwhile.
The options granted to Executive Directors during 2003 were Ordinary and Super Options.
Options are not able to be exercised if performance is below target, and there is no reward for below target performance.
The performance conditions are measured at the end of the three year holding periods applying to the relevant grants of Options.
There is no re-testing of the performance conditions.
The Directors are required to refund to the Company all National Insurance contributions payable at RPS Group Plc 43 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued exercise.
This makes the effective tax rate for Executives 47%.
The Directors individual share options are detailed in the Directors report on pages 63 and 64.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance condition has been met using the earnings per share information contained in the Companys annual report and accounts, and may take advice from the independent auditors as to whether any adjustments are required to ensure consistency in accordance with the terms of the performance condition.
This procedure is followed in order to ensure that no Director is in a position to rule on whether the performance conditions applying to his own incentives have been satisfied.
The performance condition comparing increases in earnings per share against inflation was chosen in order to ensure that options would only become exercisable against a background of a sustained real increase in the financial performance of the Company.
Following a comprehensive review of the compensation packages of the Executive Directors and their alignment with the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee are of the opinion that a new whole share plan LTIP will be a more appropriate method of providing a long-term share incentive for the Company in the future.
Full details of the proposed LTIP are contained in the accompanying Shareholders circular, along with details of a Performance Share Plan for other selected employees and a Share Incentive Plan for all staff.
It is not intended to issue any options in 2004 to any participant of the LTIP, under the existing plans.
Benefits Policy: Median The Executive Directors participate in a Company money purchase defined contribution scheme during the year see page 45 for further details.
Executive Directors can also participate in the all-employee Sharesave Plan.
Under the rules of this Plan, all employees can contribute up to 250 per month with the option to buy shares at the end of the savings contract at the price at the start of the contract.
Currently the Company does not provide a discount to the price at which shares can be acquired.
The Company is proposing to implement a new all-employee Inland Revenue Share Incentive Plan which Executive Directors may participate in.
Full details of the Plan are contained in the accompanying Shareholders Circular.
The Executive Directors also receive the following additional benefits: healthcare: life assurance and dependants pensions: disability schemes: company car or car allowance.
Service contracts The Companys policy on the duration of service contracts is that: Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one years notice served by the Company or the Director: and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms of three years, renewable on agreement of both the Company and the Director.
The policy on termination payments is that the Company does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after mitigation is considered.
None of the Directors contracts provide for automatic payments in excess of one year.
None of the Directors contracts provide for liquidated damages.
In the year ended 31st December 2003 no compensation was paid to any Director resigning from the Board.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 44 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued Details of the Directors service contracts are as follows: Potential payment in event Name Potential termination payment Potential payment upon Company takeover of liquidation Alan Hearne 12 months notice Nil Nil Peter Dowen 12 months notice Nil Nil Andrew Troup 12 months notice Nil Nil Gary Young 12 months notice Nil Nil The table shows that the only event on the occurrence of which the Company is liable to make a payment to Executive Directors is on cessation of employment.
The Companys articles state that a Director shall retire at the first Annual General Meeting after the date of his seventieth birthday, and then must face annual election thereafter.
All Directors face election at least every three years.
Non-Executive Directors Policy: Median Level Fees The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board and aim to be competitive with other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
The Chairman of the Company receives a higher fee than the other Non-Executive Directors and committee chairmen received an additional payment.
Details of the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Unexpired term of contract as at Name Contract date 31st December 2003 months Brook Land September 1997 40 Roger Devlin April 2002 16 Paul Martin December 1997 12 Rob Thielen January 2003 24 Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in the performance based pay schemes including annual bonus and share schemes.
Terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Performance graph Performance graph RPS Group 350 RPS Comparator Group FTSE 250 300 FTSE Support Services 250 200 150 100 50 1999 2003 2000 2001 2002 Source: DATASTREAM RPS Group Plc 45 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration report continued Performance graph The graph opposite shows a comparison of the total shareholder return from the Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE 250, the support services sector and the comparator group.
The Company has selected these benchmarks as they provide a good indication of the Companys general performance.
Directors emoluments and compensation The following disclosures on Directors remuneration have been audited as required by part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
The following table sets out details of the emoluments and compensation received during the year by each Director.
Directors share incentives Share options The table on pages 63 and 64 sets out details of the share options held by or granted to each Director during the year.
All share options comply with ABI headroom guidelines.
Pensions The Executive Directors of the Company earned pensions benefits in a company money purchase defined contribution scheme during the year.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 20th May 2004, a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 17th March 2004.
Signed on behalf of the Board Roger Devlin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17th March 2004 Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 46 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Terms of reference The Audit Committee has written terms of reference set out below.
It reviews the draft financial statements prior to submission to the Board and monitors and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Groups accounting policies and considers significant matters relating to internal control procedures.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of the external audit under review.
In order to ensure the independence of its auditors is not prejudiced in any way, the Board decided on 22nd February 2002 that in future the auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP, will not, other than in exceptional circumstances, be used to undertake any assignment for the Group or any part of the Group not related to the audit, tax issues and the review of Interim Results.
If the Executives believe exceptional circumstances do exist, the appointment of the auditors for some other assignment needs to be specifically approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee keeps non-audit services under review.
This policy applies to all the territories in which the Group operates.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 74.
The Company has in place a formal procedure which allows staff of the Company to, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other issues.
These procedures are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committees written terms of reference are: 1.
Committee composition, capabilities and meetings The Committee shall comprise three Independent Non-Executive Directors with a quorum of three, appointed by the Board, all of whom possess an adequate understanding of the financial management and reporting requirements of publicly quoted companies.
The Board will appoint a suitably qualified Director other than the Chairman to chair the Committee.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee shall meet at least twice per annum and may invite to attend: the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, representatives of the external auditors and anyone else who may assist the Committee from time to time.
Current membership: Paul Martin Chairman, Brook Land and Roger Devlin.
The Company Secretary attends all meetings.
Relationship between the Committee and the Board The RPS Group PLC Board: reviews and agrees terms of reference put forward by the Audit Committee: considers changes to the terms of reference when recommended by the Committee: receives prompt summary reports after each meeting of the Committee: is advised of matters for its attention at other times as deemed necessary by the Committee: will refer matters to the Committee for its attention as necessary: reviews annually the Committees policies, practices and performance: ensures that funds are available to the Committee for external advice when needed, which shall be obtained via an Executive Director.
Committee authority The Committee shall have the authority to consider any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
The Committee shall have the authority to request relevant information from any employee and employees shall be expected to respond accordingly.
The Committee may take external professional advice with respect to its responsibilities and duties.
The Committee shall have no executive responsibilities with respect to implementation of its recommendations.
RPS Group Plc 47 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Terms of reference continued 4.
Financial matters The Committee shall review accounting policies and practices used by the Group, as well as information to be published to the London Stock Exchange prior to its submission to the Board.
The Committee shall ensure that the information presented by the Group supports a balanced, clear and understandable view of its financial position and prospects.
External audit The Committee shall make recommendations to the Board with respect to the appointment of external auditors and will takes steps necessary to satisfy itself about the continuing independence of relevant firms.
The Committee shall review the level of external audit fees.
The Committee shall review the scope of, approach to and findings from external audit work.
The Committee shall discuss with the external auditors any proposed changes in accounting policies.
The Committee Chairman will liaise directly with the external auditors in order to ensure a full understanding of any issues that arise from their work and will report to the Committee accordingly.
Internal controls The Committee shall review the means by which sound systems of internal control are maintained across the Group and shall review reports on the effectiveness of those systems.
Internal audit The Committee shall review at least annually the internal audit function and will make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
Other risk management systems The Committee shall consider the adequacy of other systems which help to manage the Groups exposures to damage or loss.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 48 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Terms of reference The Committee meets as required, but not less than once a year, and comprises two Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
Its responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, size and composition, nominating candidates to the Board when vacancies arise and recommending Directors who are returning by rotation to be put forward for re-election.
The Committee is currently recruiting an additional Independent Non-Executive Director: an external search consultancy is being used in respect of this appointment.
The Nomination Committees written terms of reference are to: 1.
The Committee shall be appointed by the Board and shall comprise of a Chairman and at least two other members.
A majority of members of the Committee shall be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board shall appoint the Committee Chairman.
In the absence of the Committee Chairman and or an appointed deputy, the remaining members present shall elect one of their number to chair the meeting.
If a regular member is unable to act due to absence, illness or any other cause, the Chairman of the Committee may appoint another Director of the Company to serve as an alternate member having due regard to maintaining the required balance of Executive and Independent Non-Executive members.
Care should be taken to minimise the risk of any conflict of interest that might be seen to give rise to an unacceptable influence.
Current membership: Brook Land Chairman, Roger Devlin and Alan Hearne.
The Company Secretary shall act as the Secretary of the Committee and attend all meetings.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business shall be two of whom at least one must be a Non-Executive Director.
A duly convened meeting of the Committee at which a quorum is present shall be competent to exercise all or any of the authorities, powers and discretions vested in or exercisable by the Committee.
The Committee shall meet not less than once a year and at such other times as the Board or any member of the Committee shall require.
Meetings of the Committee shall be summoned by the Secretary of the Committee at the request of the Chairman of the Committee.
Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each meeting confirming the venue, time and date together with an agenda of items to be discussed, shall be forwarded to each member of the Committee no fewer than five working days prior to the date of the meeting.
As far as practical meetings shall be held before or after meetings of the Main Board.
The Secretary shall minute the proceedings and resolutions of all Committee meetings, including the names of those present and in attendance.
Minutes of Committee meetings shall be circulated to all members of the Committee and to the Chairman of the Board and made available on request to other members of the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee shall attend the Annual General Meeting prepared to respond to any shareholder questions on the Committees activities.
RPS Group Plc 49 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee Terms of reference continued 8.
1. regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary: 8.1.
2. prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: 8.1.
3. be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: 8.1.
4. satisfy itself with regard to succession planning, that the processes and plans are in place with regard to the Board and senior appointments: 8.1.
5. assess and articulate the time needed to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and undertake an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted sufficient time to their duties: 8.1.
6. ensure on appointment that a candidate has sufficient time to undertake the role and review his commitments: and 8.1.
7. ensure that the Secretary on behalf of the Board has formally written to any appointees, detailing the role and time commitments and proposing an induction plan produced in conjunction with the Chairman.
It shall also make recommendations to the Board: 8.2.
1. with regard to the Chairman having assessed every three years whether the present incumbent shall continue in post, taking into account the needs of continuity versus freshness of approach: 8.2.
2. as regards the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her specified term of office: especially when they have concluded their second term: 8.2.
3. for the continuation or not in service of any Director who has reached the age of 70: 8.2.
4. concerning the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys articles of association: 8.2.
5. concerning any matters relating to the continuation in office as a Director of any Director at any time: 8.2.
6. concerning the appointment of any Director to executive or other office other than to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive, the recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of: 8.2.
6.1. all the Non-Executive Directors regarding the position of Chief Executive: 8.2.
6.2. all the Directors regarding the position of Chairman.
7. detailing items that should be published in the Companys Annual Report relating to the activities of the Committee.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
The Committee is authorised to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other professional advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 50 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Risk management The Board is committed to ensuring that high quality risk management systems are in place across the Group.
The objective is to safeguard the interests of shareholders, clients and staff through effective management of corporate and operational risk.
RPS is in a strong position with respect to risk management: the culture and systems of the Group have been developed in a manner designed to minimise risk.
Within this culture and these systems there is a high degree of personal accountability at all levels.
Effective risk management comes from the comprehensive identification of risks, followed by a process, which assesses the significance of the risk and communicates the issues to senior management.
All identified potential risks are reviewed on an individual basis and the level of risk is assessed as to whether they are high, medium or low risk.
Low risk issues are dealt with at office level, medium risks are dealt with at Divisional Board level and high risks being reported to the Group Board.
If the Group does not have the appropriate expertise within the Company then external specialists are appointed.
Each of the Groups offices is treated as a separate business, and monthly management accounts are prepared including a full profit and loss account and balance sheet.
This performance is measured against detailed budgets prepared just prior to the beginning of each year and whenever strategic changes are made within the offices.
Results are reviewed monthly for every office and for each individual project.
Capital expenditure and cash collection are controlled on a country basis and monitored centrally.
The former is budgeted on an annual basis and both the budget and any material deviation from it has to be approved by the Divisional Board as well as the Group Board.
The Board monitors all aspects of risk including economic risks, competition and changes in market conditions, financial risks, health and safety risks, environmental risks and client and supplier dependencies.
Within this structure the main risks to the Company are: 1.
Inadequate work to keep staff effectively utilised: this risk is mitigated by the review of forward order books by the Board on a monthly basis for each division and the Group as a whole, and each division reviews the detail for each office: steps are taken to remedy the possible shortage of work in the office as soon as a trend becomes apparent.
Poor project management leading to cost overruns and or action by clients against RPS: the mix of projects we undertake keeps this risk small, furthermore a large majority of our projects are relatively small compared with the Group and even office turnover, or comprise of stages which in themselves are relatively small: the Group, therefore, is rarely exposed to potential major cost overruns and, in any event, the financial systems have work in progress monitoring at their core: for each project a weekly update of the unbilled costs and budget remaining is produced: this coupled with the management structure means that the number of projects that run into problems is small.
Currency risk exposures arising from investments in overseas operations or through trading activities.
All currency risks are reviewed and they are managed on an individual basis.
Financial risk exposures: as the Group currently has no debt this does not create a risk.
The internal audit function is undertaken by the Group financial accounting team as part of its other functions.
Given the current structure of the Group the Board and the Audit Committee consider that a separate internal audit function is not required presently.
The Board recognises that control risks increase during the integration of newly acquired businesses and during this period monitors closely the status of the systems and commercial integration.
RPS Group Plc 51 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Quality management RPS maintains and implements documented Quality Management Systems which satisfy, as a minimum, the requirements of ISO 9001:2000, through the: documenting of procedures to control the quality of services: maintaining records to control and show compliance with quality and client requirements: recording the implementation of corrective measures necessary to ensure the quality of service provided: and taking appropriate preventative measures to improve quality and minimise the possibility of unsatisfactory service: and monitoring of the quality management system in operation at each office at regular intervals in order to ensure its continuing and improving effectiveness.
The Quality Management Systems ensure that records are kept and that performance monitoring and operational review procedures are maintained.
Formal certification to ISO 9000:2000 standards is a required procedure for most aspects of RPSs business: therefore the majority of RPSs offices in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands are certified to ISO 9001.
Those RPS offices providing environmental monitoring and analytical services hold external accreditations from additional quality assurance schemes.
Quality accreditations held by individual RPS offices include those externally audited by UKAS, Aquacheck, RICE, UK NEQAS, and the UK Health and Safety Executives WASP scheme.
Our Dutch subsidiary, RPS Certificatie BV, is an internationally recognised certification body for quality management ISO 9001, environmental management ISO 14001 and safety management OHSAS 18001 systems.
Financial management RPS always conducts business in an open and fair manner.
A significant part of RPSs success derives from the clarity and accountability of its management structure.
The day-to-day business of the Group is carried out in business divisions, which report to the main Board.
The divisions are made up of individual office units.
Each office is treated as both a separate business for the purpose of budgeting and accounting and as part of the Group-wide network for marketing and business intelligence purposes.
Each office unit is managed by an Operational Director, who is responsible for the development of their office and accountable for its performance to their Divisional Board.
Each Divisional Board is collectively accountable for the conduct and performance of the business devolved to the division.
The membership of the Divisional Board includes an Executive Director appointed by the Group Board, a Divisional Managing Director and Divisional Finance Director and any other members appointed by the Divisional Board itself.
Divisional Boards prepare Business Plans which define the activities and scope of business to be conducted by the Division and hence the office unit.
The Divisional budgets quantify the expectations for the divisions and comprise a key element of the Business Plans.
The Plans including budgets are agreed with the Group Board.
The Divisions and offices in the UK are supported by centrally run accountancy and personnel functions.
The Dutch, Irish and Australian businesses have their own central functions.
The detail of reporting by RPSs financial management system, with its checks, balances and financial modelling, ensures good financial management, accountability and transparency at every level.
Invoices from suppliers are approved by the Operational Directors and are sent to the central finance function for processing and payment.
Office based staff have no access to the underlying processing of transactions.
Remittances from clients are received by the central finance function.
This segregation of duties within the finance team itself and between the offices and the central accounting function ensures accountability and sound financial practice at every level.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 52 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Divisional Finance Directors review the divisional and office results with the Divisional Board and the Operational Directors on a monthly basis.
This detailed review, together with the checking and reconciliation work done by the accounting team, ensures the high degree of scrutiny required to minimise the possibility of mistakes, irregularity or fraud remaining undetected.
The RPS Board monitors the Groups financial performance on a monthly basis using detailed budgets as the benchmark.
Future performance is estimated by reference to a detailed forecasting model.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash and items such as trade debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these instruments is to provide finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has operations in the UK, Ireland, Australia and the Netherlands.
The majority of contracts arising in the UK are denominated in sterling.
It is the Groups policy to hedge against possible currency movements where considered appropriate in respect of contracts denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the operation note 30.
It has been and remains the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken note 29.
Shareholders The Group conducts its operations in accordance with accepted principles of good corporate governance.
Its aim is to provide shareholders with a return on investment that rewards their financial commitment.
The Group understands the importance of strong cash flows and earnings and develops its business in such a way as to grow these in a sustainable way as far as possible.
The Group endeavours to maintain involvement of shareholders by keeping them informed on major actions or decisions affecting their investment, through a year-round Investor Relations programme.
RPS employees in possession of information which, if disclosed, could affect the market price of its shares are prohibited from trading in securities until after public disclosure of such information.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet frequently with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee attend the Annual General Meeting, and are available to answer shareholders questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to discuss governance, strategy and any issues of concern or interest with any major shareholders.
They both attend the Annual General Meeting.
There is a standing board agenda item on investor relations, and the views of shareholders are disclosed to the Board as a whole.
This gives the whole Board an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders of the Group.
