34 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance The company is committed to an open governance process The board and board committees through which its shareholders may derive assurance that, The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, in protecting and adding value to SABMillers financial and determines investment policy, agrees on performance human investment, the group is being managed ethically, criteria and delegates to management the detailed according to prudently determined risk parameters and is planning and implementation of that policy, in accordance striving to achieve and advance local best practices in the with appropriate risk parameters.
The board monitors territories in which it operates.
Corporate Governance is compliance with policies and achievement against regarded as the prudential system by which the companies objectives, by holding management accountable for in the group are managed and controlled in support and its activity through the measurement and control of furtherance of the companys strategies and policies.
operations by regular reports to the board, including quarterly performance reporting and budget updates.
The company recognises worth in the values expressed The board reserves to itself a schedule of matters to in the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance be dealt with exclusively by the board.
These include and Code of Best Practice appended to the Listing strategies and policy on social and environmental Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Combined Code, responsibility.
Appropriate structures for those authorities together with guidance principles included from the delegated to management and board committees are in Turnbull Report on Internal Control: Guidance for Directors place, accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
Account is also taken of trends Each standing board committee has specic written in evolving institutional shareholder and government terms of reference issued by the board and adopted in guidance on disclosure and shareholder authorisation, committee.
All chairs of committees report orally on the including other regional governance initiatives.
This proceedings of their committees at the next meeting section describes the way in which the company seeks of the board and minutes of committee meetings are to comply with the Combined Code and believes it has provided to the board.
All the committees have a majority done so in the past financial year.
Recognising also the of members who are considered to be independent in importance of the companys substantial, new operating any jurisdiction.
presence in the United States of America USA, Following the companys extraordinary general the company intends, over the medium term, to achieve meeting EGM on 1 July 2002 held to approve the Miller substantive compliance with the USA Sarbanes-Oxley Brewing Company transaction, from 1 August 2002 the legislation and related regulation.
board was reconstituted and reduced in number from The board of directors has given attention to the 16 to 13 directors.
Four of the six executive directors Higgs review on the role and effectiveness of non-executive stepped down and Mr Slack and Dr Strauss retired from directors and the chairman submitted comment reecting the board at the annual general meeting AGM on 31 July the preliminary views of the board on a number of aspects.
Mr Bible, Mr Camilleri and Ms fide Lisi were Insofar as the company will be affected by potential material appointed to the board as non-executive directors on changes to its present board and committee composition behalf of Altria Group, Inc. Until the end of July 2002, a and the roles of certain directors in terms of principles majority of six of the ten non-executive directors were which might be adopted in the Combined Code as a result regarded by the company as independent.
Following the of the Higgs review, the board will seek over time to achieve reconstitution of the board from 1 August 2002 to meet the appropriate level of new compliance consistent with the requirements of the transaction agreements, four of the interests of the company and the shareholders, including the 11 non-executive directors are considered in all the major shareholders who are outside the UK, as well jurisdictions to be fully independent and the executive as the contractual commitments to Altria Group, Inc. presence on the board has been reduced to two, being previously Philip Morris Companies Inc..
The Smith the chief executive and chief financial officer.
Including Report on the functions and constituents of the audit the three directors nominated by Altria Group, Inc. four of committee and the companys relationship with, and the non-executive directors represent shareholders.
The independence of, the external auditors has also received company is fortunate in having on its board persons of attention from both the board and the audit committee.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 35 unquestioned integrity who can be relied upon to exercise of directors submitted for election or re-election are their best judgement in the interests of the company and accompanied by sufficient biographical details to enable its shareholders.
In the USA, all the directors except for shareholders to make an informed decision in respect of Mr Mackay, Mr Wyman and Mr Ning would be regarded their election.
Non-executive directors are appointed for as being independent for governance purposes.
specified terms subject to re-election and to Companies The details of the directors appear on pages 42 Act provisions relating to the removal of directors.
The reappointment of non-executive directors is not The executive directors generally have responsibility automatic.
In general, the board will ask a director for proposing strategy and for making and implementing reaching the age of 70 years to stand for re-election operational decisions on running the groups businesses.
annually or to retire, as the case may be.
Non-executive directors complement the skills and Performance of the executive directors and senior experience of the executive directors, contributing to the executives is assessed by the remuneration committee formulation of policy and decision-making through their against dened, pre-agreed goals and applicable strategic knowledge and experience of other businesses and objectives.
Performance of the non-executive directors is sectors.
All directors bring an independent judgement assessed formally on an annual basis by the chairman to the issues of strategy, performance, and resources, and the senior non-executive director, in accordance with including key appointments and standards of conduct.
a set matrix covering items ranging from strategic The board continues to regard commercial experience contribution to attendance.
The chairman reports these and industry exposure as key ingredients in the range outcomes to the board in broad terms, indicating that if of talents appropriate in a non-executive director of further consultation or remedial action is needed, it will be the company.
pursued through the nomination committee before being The board and its committees are supplied with full brought back to the board.
The chairmans performance and timely information which enables them to discharge is assessed by the senior non-executive director, following their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the the same matrix and process.
advice of the company secretary and independent professional advice is available to directors in appropriate Board committees circumstances at the companys expense.
The board met Specic responsibilities have been delegated to board eight times in the year ended 31 March 2003 against a committees with dened terms of reference.
The principal scheduled seven meetings and ad hoc committees of the board committees are as follows: board met twice to deal with investment, nancing and reporting issues.
The audit committee The roles of chairman and chief executive are Throughout the financial year, the audit committee was separate with responsibilities divided between them.
chaired by Mr Manser FCA, an independent non-executive The senior non-executive director is Lord Fellowes.
Lord Fellowes, Mr Levett and Mr Morland served Following the appointment of new directors to the on the committee throughout the year.
Mr Slack and board, an induction programme is arranged, which also Dr Strauss left the committee on 31 July 2002, when they involves updates and industry specic retraining for retired from the board.
Ms fide Lisi joined the committee existing directors, including visits to the groups from 4 September 2002.
The committee met three times businesses and meetings with senior management during the year and an associated reporting committee as appropriate, to facilitate understanding of the group.
The external auditors, the chief executive In addition to operations, directors are given exposure and the chief financial officer are in attendance at each to internal controls at business unit level.
meeting and other members of the management team, All directors are subject to retirement and re-election by including internal audit staff, attend as required.
Executive shareholders every three years.
In addition, all directors attendees are excused for periodic discussions with are subject to election by shareholders at the first the external auditors.
The committee has the power to opportunity after their initial appointment.
The names examine any financial operating and strategic matters in, 36 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance continued and relating to, the group in accordance with its written and Mr Morland ensure a majority of independent nonterms of reference.
This includes reviewing the annual executive directors on the committee.
accounts, internal control procedures, accounting The committee considers the composition of the policies, compliance and regulatory matters, reviewing board and its committees, retirements and appointments and approving the appointment of the external auditors of additional and replacement directors and makes and other related issues.
appropriate recommendations to the board.
Executive The audit committee reviews in annual cycles with directors are considered for appointment to the board management, that adequate and suitable internal controls on the basis of their experience, skills and level of are in place and are appropriate to meet future needs: contribution to, and impact upon, the group.
Nonthat significant business, strategic, statutory and financial executive directors are selected for recommendation on risks have been identied and are being monitored and the basis of industry knowledge, professional skills and managed: that appropriate standards of governance, experience and, where appropriate, the directors believe reporting and compliance are in operation: and it advises that significant shareholders in the company should be the board on issues relating to the application of represented on the board.
All directors are subject to accounting standards to published financial information.
retirement and re-election by shareholders at least once Internal audit structures in the major operating every three years in accordance with the companys subsidiaries and divisions function under the direction Articles of Association and the requirements of the of, and report to, their respective audit committees.
After recommendation by the The internal audit functions are performed either by teams nomination committee, the appointment of a new of appropriate, qualied and experienced employees, director is dealt with directly by the board.
or through the engagement of external practitioners upon This committee meets as often as required, usually specified and agreed terms with equivalent access.
The board chairman conducts annual These structures are reviewed for effectiveness with appraisals of the performance of each of the external consultants at least once a year.
The primary non-executive directors and reviews these with the senior mandate of the groups internal auditors is to examine and non-executive director and the company secretary.
The evaluate the effectiveness of the applicable operational senior non-executive director reviews the performance of activities, the attendant business risks and the systems the chairman of the board.
Thereafter, where appropriate, of internal operational and financial control, so as to bring individual directors may be interviewed.
The results are material deficiencies, instances of non-compliance and reported to the nomination committee and the board.
development needs to the attention of the applicable The committee follows a process of recruitment and audit committee, external auditors and operational selection to ll non-executive vacancies on the board, management, for resolution.
The companys audit using external agencies when appropriate to present committee has access to the proceedings of the reports selections for consideration and interview, in consultation to the divisional audit committees and to subsidiary with the executive directors and for presentation to the internal audit practitioners: the last having access board.
The composition and size of the board is now to both central management and to the companys regulated in terms of the agreements with Altria Group, audit committee.
Inc. covering the Miller Brewing Company transaction, During the year a corporate governance manager was but outside those requirements, the company continues appointed to co-ordinate group-wide internal audit activity, to follow the process described.
The executive director internal control monitoring and governance reporting.
membership of the board is limited to two, the chief The audit committee is comprised of five nonexecutive and chief financial officer, within the executive directors, of whom independent directors Lord arrangements which currently require three Altria Group, Fellowes, Mr Manser and Mr Morland are in the majority.
Inc. nominees in a maximum of 13 board members.
The nomination committee The remuneration committee The nomination committee is chaired by Lord Renwick.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Lord Renwick, The other members, Mr Kahn, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manser, the other members are Mr Kahn, Lord Fellowes, SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 37 Mr Manser and Mr Morland.
The committee has a majority involve investors in its AGM.
Alongside the facilities of independent non-executive directors.
The committee offered by the company secretarys department, the sets short, medium and long-term remuneration for the company has a dedicated investor relations and executive directors.
More generally, the committee is communications team to liaise with institutional investors.
responsible for the assessment and approval of a broad The investor relations team which reports to the director remuneration strategy for the group.
The determination of corporate affairs is in constant contact with analysts of short and long-term incentive pay structures for group and fund managers and arranges presentations on recent executives, the positioning of senior executive pay levels acquisitions and country business progress, as well as relative to local and international industry benchmarks and site visits.
The executive directors and senior the assessment and authorisation of specic reward management conduct regular roadshows and proposals for the companys executive directors and presentations.
The group corporate accountability those executives reporting directly to the chief executive.
manager maintains contact with fund managers and In order to promote an identity of interests with shareholders, institutional investor representative bodies on socially share incentives are considered to be critical elements of responsible investment SRI and triple bottom line issues executive incentive pay.
and initiates one-on-one interactions and briengs with The remuneration committees overall strategy is to interested investors.
ensure that employees are rewarded for their contribution The company encourages shareholders to attend its to the groups operating and financial performance at AGMs, which provide opportunities for shareholders to levels which take account of industry, market and country ask questions of the board, including the chairmen of benchmarks, as well as the requirements of collective the audit, remuneration and nomination committees and bargaining.
While Mr Kahn is not regarded as fully of CARAC.
independent, his experience of the group and external Last year the board put its remuneration report remuneration matters brings worthwhile balance and to an advisory vote at its annual general meeting.
Of the perspective to the committees deliberations.
998.7 million ordinary shares in issue, 752.2 million were voted 1.5 million by 26 shareholders present in person.
The corporate accountability and risk assurance committee Although the resolution was carried unanimously on a CARAC show of hands, the proxy votes counted represented Lord Fellowes chaired the committee throughout the year 96.1% in favour of the resolution.
and Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, Mr Manser, Mr Ramaphosa and At the extraordinary and annual general meetings held Mr Wyman served as members.
Mr Adami contributed as a respectively on 1 and 31 July 2002, all proxy votes were committee member until he stepped down from the board counted and displayed on screen during the voting on 31 July 2002 and continues as a co-opted member.
The committees activities which include examination of prospective risk are described in the separate corporate Risk management and internal control accountability review on pages 40 to 41.
The committee meets twice a year and reports to the Responsibilities board on its activities, as do the other board committees.
Additionally, the director of corporate affairs who chairs Board of directors the group-wide corporate accountability working Following the publication in September 1999 and committee a management committee meets regularly application of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on with the chairman of CARAC on implementation and the Combined Code the Turnbull Report, the directors planning issues.
report below on their review of the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Relations with shareholders The groups existing internal controls and risk It is the policy of the company, where practicable, to management processes are subject to constant review pursue dialogue with institutional shareholders and to and adaptations to the extent necessary to ensure full 38 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance continued compliance with the requirements of the Turnbull Report, Business units for the reporting period and to deliver improved value to Responsibilities and processes are to a large extent the operating businesses.
replicated at business unit level via the existence of In particular, the directors recognise the impact of divisional or company audit committees and in some changes such as the acquisition and integration of Miller cases corporate accountability committees.
Each local Brewing Company and the development of a UK corporate audit committee has formal terms of reference which centre.
Accordingly, a programme has commenced to include dened monitoring roles in relation to both risk enhance the groups risk management framework, and management processes and internal audit activities.
related systems of internal control, appropriate to the evolving structure and needs of the group.
Corporate functions The directors are responsible for the groups system In line with the recent changes outlined above and as of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The part of the current enhancement programme, the group system of internal control is designed to manage, rather intends to strengthen central management resource in than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business both risk management and internal audit.
This will improve objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, group-wide co-ordination and promote best practice in assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
In each of these specialist areas.
reviewing the system of internal control, the board has taken into account the results of all of the work carried Risk management out to audit and review the activities of the group.
The focus of risk management in the group is to support There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, the delivery of business objectives by identifying, managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant assessing, managing and monitoring all known forms risks faced by individual group companies and by the of risk across the group.
Management is involved in group as a whole.
This process has been in place for a continuous process of developing and enhancing its the year under review up to and including the date of risk and control procedures to improve the mechanisms approval of the annual report and accounts.
for identifying and monitoring risks.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, reviews on Key features of the groups system of risk the effectiveness of internal control were carried out in management comprise: May and November 2002 and in May 2003 by the board.
Group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values.
Board and executive committees Clear business objectives and business principles.
The executive committee EXCOM, which is chaired by Established risk policy.
the chief executive, and comprises senior SABMiller plc An ongoing process for identication and evaluation managers, has specic responsibility for the system of risk of significant risk that may prevent achievement of management and reviews the risk reports of the group business objectives.
and the business units twice yearly, reporting to the board Implementation of management processes to manage on key risks and their associated mitigating actions.
the significant risks to an acceptable level.
The audit committee deals primarily with operational Ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal and financial matters, including breakdowns of controls, and external environmental factors that may change reputation, insurance and loss prevention, litigation and the risk prole.
In addition, there is a process of regular reporting to The corporate accountability committee deals with the board through the audit committee on the status of business ethics, values and principles, plus stakeholder the risk management and internal control systems, and any accountability, including specialist areas such as evolving risk issues or internal control breakdowns that employee, social, health, safety and environmental issues, may have occurred.
The corporate accountability committee as well as impacts on product and service quality and also reports regularly to the board on social, environmental, non-exclusively with emerging and prospective risk.
ethical and prospective risk issues.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 39 Key reports include those that identify, rank, monitor and policies employed in managing operating risk involve measure strategic, operational and financial risks in each segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, division and on a group basis on an annual cycle.
These monitoring, financial and managerial reporting.
are supplemented by reports on internal control Business resumption planning, including preventative processes and breakdowns, along with reviews of the and contingency measures, back-up capabilities and structure and effectiveness of internal audit functions.
the purchase of catastrophe insurance to maintain These reports were co-ordinated and evaluated with advice product and service delivery under adverse conditions.
from external consultants in the period under review.
Key risks, with which the board has been concerned, Assurance and reviewed, during the year, include: Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control Miller turnaround execution risk and on their effectiveness is obtained through regular Tax risks management reviews, control self-assessment including Strategic people skills letters of representation, internal audit reviews and testing, Industry consolidation and asset impairment and by testing of certain aspects of the internal financial Fundamental consumption shifts within the liquor control systems by the external auditors during the course industry.
The groups various The current initiative to enhance the groups risk divisional audit committees consider the results of these management framework seeks to standardise and reviews on a regular basis, to confirm the appropriateness strengthen existing practices for reporting and assessing and satisfactory nature of these systems, while ensuring risks at different levels of the group to achieve a more that breakdowns involving material loss, if any, together with integrated approach to risk management.
It also seeks to remedial actions, have been reported to the appropriate provide a more consistent platform for risk management boards of directors.
process assurance by internal audit.
At the half year and at the year end the chief executives and the chief financial ofcers of all the groups Internal control operations are required to submit formal letters of The groups systems of internal control are designed and representation on controls, compliance and notication of operated to support the identication and management of ongoing or potential operational, financial and legal risks risks affecting the group and the business environment in or claims.
These letters form the subject of full reports to which it operates.
As such, they are subject to continuous the audit committee.
Directors, executives, key managers review as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
and professionals also make annual written declarations Key features of the groups systems of internal control of interests and are obliged to report without delay any comprise: potential or actual conicts of interest which may arise.
Written policies and procedures, which are detailed in Internal audit functions operated in all of the groups policy manuals, clearly dened lines of accountability principal business units in the period under review, and delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting to local management and accountable to local reporting and analysis against approved standards and audit committees.
The audit committee is satisfied that budgets.
adequate, objective internal audit assurance standards Group treasury operations control and reduce exposure and procedures exist in the group.
The November 2002 to interest rate, counterparty, liquidity and currency and May 2003 audit committee meetings reviewed internal transaction risks and co-ordinate the activities of group audit reports on the major business units, together with companies in this area.
Treasury policies, risk limits and proposals for the ongoing internal assurance processes.
monitoring procedures are reviewed regularly by the Reports on these issues were made to the board.
The adequacy and capability of the groups internal Minimisation of operating risk by ensuring that the audit structures were the subject of a review during the appropriate infrastructure, controls, systems and year by external consultants.
people are in place throughout the businesses.
