44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 24 Corporate Governance Statement 1 Overview The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Until this 2 Chairmans and Chief The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
year, the roles of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees were combined in the Executives Review This statement describes how the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied Remuneration and Succession Committee.
However, having considered the membership of 16 Directors and Advisers by the Company.
Throughout the year the Company has been in compliance with the this Committee, the Board decided to create separate committees with responsibility for the 18 Financial Review provisions set out in the Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the areas of remuneration and of succession.
The Committees of the Board are, therefore, the 21 Directors Report Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, unless otherwise indicated.
Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee details of 24 Corporate Governance Statement all these committees are set out below.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees 28 Remuneration Report 34 Consolidated Profit The Board Remuneration Committee and Loss Account The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr L C N Bury, and its other members 35 Consolidated executive directors, three independent non-executive directors and another non-executive are the other independent non-executive directors, Professor C J Constable and Mr T C W Balance Sheet director.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are quite distinct from one Ingram.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
All members attended all the meetings 36 Company Balance Sheet another and are clearly defined in written terms of reference for each role adopted by the in the year under review.
The Chief Executive may, by invitation of the Committee, attend 37 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Board.
The directors biographies appear on page 16.
These demonstrate that the directors meetings except when his own performance and remuneration are under review but is not 38 Consolidated Statement have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on a member of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to of Total Recognised Gains and Losses issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive 38 Reconciliation of success of the Group.
All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration Movements in Equity and other benefits for each of the executive directors including share options, performance Shareholders Funds The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
Where it related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.
Remuneration 39 Notes to the Accounts is considered appropriate, training is made available to directors.
A statement of the consultants advise the Committee.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the 61 Independent directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 27.
The Board has Auditors Report non-executive directors.
formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision which is 62 Notice of Meeting available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered office.
Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration 63 Financial Calendar Report on pages 28 to 33, together with further details of the Remuneration Committee.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and Audit Committee regulations are complied with.
The Secretary ensures that the directors take independent The Audit Committee is chaired by Professor C J Constable, and its other members are the professional advice as required.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a matter other independent non-executive directors, Mr L C N Bury and Mr T C W Ingram.
It meets for the Board as a whole.
at least three times a year.
All members attended all the meetings in the year under review.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups internal and external auditors.
The Board meets formally six times a year, reviewing trading performance, ensuring The Group Finance Director may, by invitation of the Committee, attend meetings but is not adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition opportunities a member of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing half-year and and reviewing regular reports to shareholders.
In the year under review all directors attended annual accounts before their submission to the Board and reviews the effectiveness of all of these Board meetings other than one non-executive who was unable to attend one internal controls.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external meeting.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work and discusses the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.
To enable the Board to nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the are distributed by the Secretary to all directors in advance of Board meetings.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the appointment, remuneration and utilisation of internal audit service which is currently outsourced to KPMG.
The members of the Board have evaluated the performance of the Board, its committees and individual members at meetings and also through the completion of detailed The Companys auditors,  LLP, also perform non-audit services for questionnaires which are reviewed and considered by the Chairman.
Further details are set the Group principally tax advice and due diligence in relation to acquisitions over and out under the heading Revised Combined Code on page 26. above the external audit.
The Audit Committee keeps this issue under review and is confident that the objectivity and independence of the auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of this further work.
p 24 44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 25 To this end the Committee has put in controls to ensure that the independence of the Internal control external audit process is not compromised and that in the provision of non-audit services, The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is safeguarded.
These controls are: internal controls.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year under Monitoring of independence and effectiveness of the audit process the scope, fee, review and up to the date of approval of this report.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and performance and independence of the external auditor is considered annually by the Audit complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
Committee, together with an evaluation of whether the external audit should be tendered.
In addition, audit partners are rotated every five years, and a formal statement of The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the independence from the external auditors is received each year.
risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
Provision of non-audit services executive management has the discretion to obtain taxation services from the external auditors without prior reference to the Audit Committee The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports subject to regularly appraising the Audit Committee of the amount and nature of such fees.
its findings to the Board.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the Other non-audit services may be undertaken by the external auditors subject to all projects effectiveness of the system of internal control include discussions with management on expected to cost in excess of an amount set by the Audit Committee, being approved in significant risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results from, internal and advance either by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or by the full Audit Committee external audits.
depending on the expected cost of the project.
The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of its review of the risk assessment Nomination Committee process.
The Board then draws its collective conclusion as to the effectiveness of the The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Mr M E W Jackson system of internal control.
and consists of the Chairman and the three independent non-executive directors, Mr L C N The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective Bury, Professor C J Constable and Mr T C W Ingram.
The Nomination Committee meets on internal control, are as follows: an ad hoc basis as required.
As the role of the Nominations Committee was until recently combined in the Remuneration Committee no meetings of a separate Nominations Indication of business risks Committee took place in the year under review.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such processes, which are reviewed and The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters relating to the improved as necessary, include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the composition of the Board and its committees including proposing candidates for regular monitoring of performance, and control over capital expenditure and acquisitions.
appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure.
Recruitment consultants are used to assist in the process.
The Company has formed a Risk Committee consisting of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, members of the Group finance team, the Secretary and representatives Relations with shareholders of the Group operating companies.
A representative of KPMG, the internal auditors, may Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The Chairmans and Chief attend meetings of the Committee by request.
The Committee reviews all business activities Executives Review on pages 2 to 5 includes a detailed review of the business and future to identify the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group, undertakes risk developments.
A full Annual Report and Accounts is sent to shareholders.
The Company review audits and considers the scope and results of audits undertaken by KPMG.
com which contains up to date information on Group identifies significant internal control failings and weaknesses and agrees remedial action activities and published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional on such matters.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board.
Through the work of the shareholders, as well as presentations to analysts after the Companys announcement of the Audit and Risk Committees, the Board is provided with a balanced assessment of the year-end and half-year results.
significant risks associated with the Groups operations and the effectiveness of the system The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional of internal controls.
investors and welcomes their participation.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 4 March 2004 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on page 62. p 25 44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 26 Corporate Governance Statement continued 1 Overview Quality and integrity of personnel Revised Combined Code 2 Chairmans and Chief The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards The Board noted with interest the introduction in July 2003 of the Revised Combined Executives Review and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the Code the Revised Code derived from a review of the role and effectiveness of non- 16 Directors and Advisers control environment.
executive directors by Derek Higgs and a review of Audit Committees by a group led by 18 Financial Review Sir Robert Smith.
21 Directors Report Management structure 24 Corporate Governance The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director has been given The Revised Code applies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 Statement responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisational 28 Remuneration Report and, therefore, will apply for the first time to the Company for the financial year commencing 34 Consolidated Profit structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
However, the Company is committed to the application of the principles and Loss Account set out in the Revised Code and the adoption of the appropriate provisions of the Revised 35 Consolidated The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive and the Code, or, where the Board considers that these provisions are inappropriate, to providing a Balance Sheet executive directors.
The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local clear explanation of why it does not comply.
36 Company Balance Sheet executive management teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and 37 Consolidated Cash performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority The current position in relation to the adoption of the relevant provisions of the Revised Flow Statement 38 Consolidated Statement to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Code is as follows: of Total Recognised Group policies and guidelines.
1.2 of the Revised Code requires the Company to identify a senior 38 Reconciliation of Internal audit independent director.
The Board has appointed Mr L C N Bury to this role.
Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG to review compliance with The Chairman of the Board will hold meetings with the non-executive directors without the 39 Notes to the Accounts procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a executive directors present as required by provision A.
These 61 Independent service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and Auditors Report meetings have been included in the agenda for the current financial year.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed 62 Notice of Meeting non-executive directors will meet without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans up to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
63 Financial Calendar performance and on other occasions as deemed appropriate.
These meetings have been Budgetary process included in the agenda for the current financial year.
A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating The Board has adopted terms of reference clearly identifying the division of responsibilities subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary boards and subsequently considered between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The terms are available to shareholders on and, if appropriate, approved by the Board.
Management information systems provide the request to the Secretary.
directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
Although the current Board complies with the main principle of the Revised Code in that it Investment appraisal including acquisitions includes a balance of executive and non-executive directors so that no individual or small Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision taking, it recognises that under the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development provision A.
3.2 of the Revised Code it is recommended that at least half the Board, programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition management.
To that end, the Chief Executive and Chairman as Chairman of Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the the Nomination Committee have commenced a strategy to identify and appoint suitable Combined Code independent non-executive directors.
External advisors have been appointed to identify The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the suitable candidates with the intention of achieving the appointment of not less than two Combined Code throughout the year with the exception of the provision A.
2.1 requiring the new independent non-executive directors by the end of the current financial year and to identification of a senior independent non-executive director which the Board did not advise on further appointments thereafter.
believe was necessary given that there is a non-executive Chairman and A.
1.2 being the existence of a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board.
Mr L C N Bury has now been identified as the senior independent director and will be available, through the Secretary, to discuss any issues with shareholders, as appropriate.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board was adopted by the Board on 28 November 2002. p 26 44441 GRich GreenStock [q4] 1 27 04 10:48 AM Page 27 The Board conducted a review of its own performance at a series of meetings during the Statement of directors responsibilities year ended 30 September 2003.
It has now adopted a formal review procedure requiring Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year the completion of detailed questionnaires by each individual member of the Board on the that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the performance of the Board as a whole, its Committees and his individual performance.
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
These questionnaires will be reviewed by the Chairman and by the Board as a whole.
A In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: discussion and evaluation of Board performance will also take place at the Strategy Conference attended each year by the Board.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Audit Committee are available on request from the Secretary at the registered office of the Company as required by the Revised Code.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Under the Revised Code the Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole and he should discuss governance and The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the strategy with major shareholders.
In addition, non-executive directors should be offered financial statements.
the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and should expect to attend The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with them if requested by major shareholders.
The Chairman ensures that shareholder reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and communication and responses are discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act shareholders have access to the non-executive directors, through request to the Chairman 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the or the Secretary.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud The Revised Code provides D. 1.1 that the senior independent director should attend and other irregularities.
sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to By Order of the Board help develop a balanced understanding of issues of major shareholders.
In his role as senior independent non-executive director, Mr L C N Bury will be available to shareholders to discuss issues of concern by request to him or the Secretary.
M J Robinson Going concern Secretary The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: 22 December 2003 Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
