A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 32 31 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Compliance Group management structure The Company remains committed to high standards of corporate governance Throughout the year the Group Management Board was responsible for and manages the affairs of the Company in accordance with the Combined ensuring that each of the Groups businesses were managed effectively Code issued by the Financial Services Authority.
and that the operational objectives of the Group set by the Main Board were achieved.
Its role included the preparation of the Group budget for approval The Board by the Main Board, management of business performance to achieve the The Board is headed by the Chairman and, until December 2002, comprised Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems providing the Group Managing Director, five further executive directors and eight clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance non-executive directors.
Guy Dickson retired as Group Managing Director and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve in December 2002 and Tony Froggatt was appointed Group Chief Executive effective inter-divisional co-ordination, for example in purchasing, beer brand in May 2003.
Erik Hartwall and Henrik Therman both joined the Board marketing and career development planning.
It also approved major items on 16 May 2002 as non-executive directors and on 27 September 2002, of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Main Board.
The Group Graham Kendrick retired as Chairman and Managing Director of Scottish Management Board met each month and, until his retirement in December Courage and John Dunsmore was appointed in his place.
Details of all 2002, was chaired by the Group Managing Director.
Thereafter it was chaired directors, together with the committees on which they sit, are set out by Sir Brian Stewart.
Its membership comprised the heads of the Groups on page 27.
The Board meets regularly seven times each year, with further major businesses and functions.
On 1 July 2003 the Company announced meetings as necessary.
Meetings are held at the Head Office in Edinburgh changes to the management structure of the Group, including the proposed as well as divisional offices in the UK and elsewhere.
appointment of three new senior executive roles Group Marketing Director, The Company Secretary and General Counsel, Peter Kennerley, is Group Operations Director and Group IS Director and the establishment responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all directors of the Executive Management Group.
The Executive Management Group, have direct access to him.
Board agendas are agreed between the Chairman which will replace the Group Management Board, will be chaired by the and all appropriate directors and all Board members are free to raise other Group Chief Executive and include all other full time executive directors issues at the Board.
All directors bring their own independent judgement and certain functional and business heads, including the three new senior to all major matters affecting the Group and the views of executive directors appointments referred to above.
are not limited to those operational or functional areas for which directors have prime responsibility.
Board papers are sent to directors in sufficient Nominations Committee time before Board meetings and any further back-up papers and information Appointments to the Board are approved by the Board as a whole.
are readily available to all directors on request to the Company Secretary.
However, the Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the The Chairman ensures that non-executive directors are properly briefed Board in respect of the appointment of new executive or non-executive on any issues arising at Board Meetings and non-executive directors have directors.
The Committee comprises a majority of non-executive directors.
access to the Chairman at any time.
There is an agreed procedure for Dr Iain Anderson is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
The process directors to take independent legal advice.
by which the Nominations Committee may bring candidates to the Board An introduction programme to the Group, which covers, in particular, the has been agreed by the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary trading operations of the Divisions and continues with visits to those Divisions to the Nominations Committee.
throughout the year, is arranged for all new directors.
Newly appointed directors are subject to election by shareholders at The roles of Chairman and Group Managing Director were separated.
All directors must submit themselves for The Chairmans role included maintaining the strategic impetus of the Group re-election at least every three years, and in any event, excluding any newly and developing the appropriate organisational structure for an international appointed directors, one third of the Board are subject to re-election at each business.
The Group Managing Director was responsible for day to day AGM and will be brought forward by rotation.
Non-executive directors are operational affairs, particularly the challenges of integrating new acquisitions, appointed by the Board for an initial term of three years, renewable with and he chaired the Group Management Board.
Between Guy Dicksons the Boards agreement for a further term of three years, and in particular retirement and the appointment of Tony Froggatt as Group Chief Executive, cases further renewed for up to three years, but subject to re-election Sir Brian Stewart chaired the Group Management Board, with all executive by shareholders on the normal rotation basis.
directors reporting directly to him.
Following the appointment of Tony Froggatt as Group Chief Executive, Sir Brian Stewart is to assume a part time role, Audit Committee and auditors focusing, as Chairman, on leadership of the Board and overall corporate The Board Audit Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors governance, with the Group Chief Executive having responsibility for all and comprises Dr Neville Bain Chairman, Sir Angus Grossart, Ian McAllister aspects of the management of the Group, including strategy and operations.
Its primary responsibility is to monitor the quality and Franck Riboud is Chief Executive of Group Danone, which owns 26% reliability of the financial information used by the Board.
The Audit Committee of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Erik Hartwall and Henrik has written terms of reference and the findings and recommendations of Therman are former shareholders of Oyj Hartwall Abp, which was acquired the Committee are reported directly to the Board by the Chairman of the by the Company in May 2002.
They are also directors of Hartwall Bolagen Committee.
The external auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings, Ab, the former holding company of Oyj Hartwall Abp, and which now owns along with the Group Finance Director and the Head of Group Review 29% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The external auditors have a standing opportunity to meet with executive directors have no material business or other relationship with the members of the Audit Committee alone if so required.
The Audit Committee, Company and all other non-executives are considered independent.
The in addition to reviewing the annual financial statements of the Group, also Board believes that the complementary roles of executive and non-executive reviews the effectiveness of the systems of accounting and internal control.
directors, who all have considerable experience in senior appointments in It reviews the appointment and terms of reference of the external auditors other companies, works well and allows for a well informed and broadly and their fees and also monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit based debate.
Ian McAllister has been designated the senior non-executive function.
The Committee seeks to ensure the continued independence director to whom any concerns can be conveyed.
The non-executive of the Groups auditors both by reviewing the auditors internal processes directors meet together in the absence of the Chairman at least once and through monitoring the level of non-audit services provided to the Group each year.
It has established guidelines to ensure that all non-audit work There is an agreed list of matters which are always dealt with by above set levels is submitted for tender, except in cases where a thorough the Board, such as the approval of the Group corporate plan and Group understanding of the Group or concerns as to confidentiality, for example budget.
Major acquisitions and disposals, as well as major capital spend, in the case of taxation advice or due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, are authorised by the Board and are also subsequently monitored by the mean that it is appropriate that the Groups auditors should perform the Board after authorisation.
The Board approves the issue of final and interim task.
Even in this case, any instructions above set project values must be results and the Annual and Interim Accounts.
A breakdown of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors during the year is set out in note 4 to the accounts.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 33 32 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Board Committee on Treasury A comprehensive control self assessment exercise conducted on an The Board Committee on Treasury provides strategic direction for the Group annual basis complements the work of Group Review and Audit.
This exercise on treasury matters.
Its responsibilities include an annual review and approval is subject to regular enhancement and requires management to assess the of the Groups Treasury Policy Statement, which is submitted to the Group effectiveness of their fundamental operating control over all aspects of their Main Board for formal approval, strategic decision in respect of gearing and operations, not just financial controls.
Group Review and Audit will test the other policy targets, interest and currency risk policy and the approval of validity of the latest responses on their next visit to the location.
At the end of major facilities.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director, the financial year heads of businesses functions sign a letter of representation and, in addition to two non-executive directors, comprises the Group confirming that controls have been applied throughout the period.
Treasurer and the Deputy Group Treasurer as secretary.
The foregoing procedures can be varied depending upon the specific agreements with each of the Companys joint venture partners.
Where this Shareholders is the case, however, the Board would use best endeavours to ensure that The Company has a regular dialogue with Institutional shareholders it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the prevailing control environment.
throughout the year, other than during close periods.
The Company also encourages communication with private shareholders throughout the year Going concern and welcomes their participation at shareholder meetings.
In addition to the After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Chairmans Statement at the AGM, a trading presentation to shareholders Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable is given and details of the Companys trading activities are on display at the future.
For this reason, the going concern basis was adopted in preparing AGM.
All Board members attend the AGM and, in particular, the Chairmen the accounts.
of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available to answer questions.
Separate resolutions are proposed on substantially separate issues and the agenda at the AGM includes a resolution adopting the Annual Report and Accounts.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting and details of the proxy votes for and against each resolution are made available after the result of the hand votes.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
While these systems are intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, it should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As prescribed in the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control an ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements.
The process is regularly reviewed and discussed at the Audit Committee and amended where required.
As part of the ongoing process each division reviews and evaluates the risks to the achievement of its strategic objectives.
The Board also identifies those significant risks which might preclude achievement of corporate objectives.
Having recognised these risks, mitigating controls are then identified together with any action necessary to enhance the effectiveness of those controls.
The profiles of significant risk at divisional and corporate level are subject to regular review and update as an integral part of the Groups Integrated Performance Management process.
The Board obtains its assurance on the effectiveness of the control system from regular reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee, management reports and reports by the internal and external auditors.
The Group has an internal audit function, Group Review and Audit, which reports to the Audit Committee.
The annual audit plan, which is risk-based, is approved by the Audit Committee and covers business processes and internal controls in all divisions and functions.
Reports are produced for each audit undertaken and there is an effective follow-up system for ensuring the implementation of agreed action.
There is an audit function within the Retail Division for monitoring controls at operating level and the Head of Group Review and Audit provides a direct link between that divisional function and the Audit Committee.
