| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 57 Corporate Governance Corporate governance statement The non-executive directors are appointed for process: and its outcome, including specic The company is committed to the highest a specified term of three years: recommendations, was regarded as very standards of corporate governance.
This reappointment is not automatic, and each positive.
statement, together with the Remuneration non-executive directors position is subject to Report of the Directors, set out on pages 61 review prior to his or her expiry from ofce.
It Table 40 shows the number of, and to 68, describes the extent to which, in is company policy that non-executive directors individual attendance at, meetings of the respect of the financial year ended 31 serve no more than two three-year terms Board, as well as of the Nomination, March 2003, the company has been in unless there are exceptional circumstances.
In Remuneration and Audit Committees compliance with the principles of good the case of Sir Peter Gregson, it was felt during the year.
governance set out in Section 1 of the appropriate in the interests of orderly Combined Code as appended to the Listing succession planning to extend his term of Board committees Rules of the UK Listing Authority in the UK ofce by up to one year.
Directors are The Board has three principal standing and with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and elected at the first annual general meeting committees: namely, the Nomination, associated rules to the extent they apply to following their appointment and thereafter Remuneration and Audit Committees, the company in the US.
are re-elected at least every three years.
together with certain other committees.
The current membership of each of the The company acknowledges the Board meetings are held on a regular basis, principal committees is shown on page 56. consideration of the role and effectiveness of twelve times a year, and otherwise as In addition, authority as described below is non-executive directors contained in the required.
Of the normal twelve meetings, six delegated to the Executive Team.
Details are Higgs Report and the guidance for audit are held at company locations in the UK as follows: committees contained in the Smith Report.
and US and the remaining six are Arising from the Higgs Report, the company conducted by telephone conference.
The Nomination Committee will review its corporate governance policies Board has a schedule of matters concerning The Nomination Committee is chaired by and practices, in due course, in the light of key aspects of the companys activities the Chairman of the Board with, as any revisions made to the Combined Code.
which are reserved to it for decision.
The members of the Committee, the Chief Board exercises full control over strategy, Executive and three independent nonBoard of directors investment and capital expenditure.
It has a remit to There is a well-established division of addition, individual executive directors have consider and make recommendations to the authority and responsibility at the most specic responsibilities for such matters as Board on all new appointments of directors, senior level within the company through the health, safety, environment and regulation.
having regard to the overall balance and separation of the roles of Chairman and The decisions reserved to the Board include composition of the Board: to consider and Chief Executive.
any changes to the companys constitution approve the remit and responsibilities of the or share capital or to the group structure: executive directors: and to review and advise In addition to the Chairman, there are the adoption of business plans and budgets: upon issues of succession planning and currently three executive and seven nonthe approval of capital expenditure over organisational development.
executive directors on the Board.
All the certain limits: and the adoption or variation non-executive directors are considered by of major policies.
Remuneration Committee the Board to be independent and Sir Peter The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Gregson is the senior independent director.
All directors have access to the Company Sir Peter Gregson and all members of the Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Committee are independent non-executive The company has made provision for the that all Board procedures are observed and, directors.
It has a remit to consider and non-executive directors to meet annually through the Chairman, is responsible for all make recommendations on Board without the presence of the Chairman and corporate governance matters.
Any director remuneration policy and, on behalf of the the Chief Executive: this practice has been wishing to do so, in furtherance of his or her Board, to determine specic remuneration established for a number of years.
duties, may take independent professional packages for each of the executive directors.
advice at the companys expense.
In discharging its remit, the Committee has The non-executive directors are from a wide regard to the provisions of the Combined range of backgrounds, and all directors have During the year, the Institute of Chartered Code and has as an objective the aim of the benefit of induction and training tailored Secretaries and Administrators conducted providing packages to attract, retain and to individual requirements following their an independent evaluation of the motivate executive directors of the quality appointment to the Board.
Their experience performance of the Board.
The evaluation required: to judge the companys position in allows them to exercise independent looked at the operation of the Board, matters of remuneration policy and practice judgement on the Board and their views including its corporate governance and relative to other companies: and to take into carry significant weight in Board decisions.
decision-making framework and the account wider issues of pay-setting.
It also They contribute to the companys strategy operation and content of its meetings.
The has responsibility for the companys bonus and policy formulation, in addition to evaluation process, on the basis of private and incentive schemes.
The Remuneration monitoring its performance and its interviews with each of the directors, was Report of the Directors for 2002 03 is set executive management.
considered to have been a thorough out on pages 61 to 68.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 58 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Director, Director of Internal Audit, Company to the Chief Executive who is supported by The Audit Committee is chaired by Ewen Secretary and representatives of the external the Executive Team and by divisional and Macpherson and all members of the auditors.
However the Committee also business boards in the discharge of these Committee are independent non-executive meets in private session, at least once functions.
Major issues and decisions are directors.
Nick Rose has been identied as annually, and otherwise as required, with the reported to the Board.
the Committees financial expert and, external auditors, external counsel the following Ewen Macphersons retirement, Director of Internal Audit and senior Relations with shareholders will become chairman of the Committee.
The company's Investor Relations department communicates with its The Committee has written terms of Other Committees institutional investors through analysts' reference.
Its principal role is to review: During the year, the company established a briengs and extensive investor roadshows Group Finance Committee and a Treasury in the UK, US and Europe.
Transparency is the effectiveness of the system of internal Committee.
The Group Finance Committee, further promoted by timely stock exchange control and consider reports from both comprising both executive and nonannouncements, formal meetings with internal and external auditors on key risks executive directors, was created to review management and site visits.
Broader facing the group and controls over these risks the structure, financing, tax and treasury communication with shareholders takes affairs of the group and make place via the Annual General Meeting, the the companys quarterly financial recommendations on these matters to the Annual Report & Accounts, and the statements, including accounting policies, Board.
The Treasury Committee was company website to which all material stock compliance with legal and regulatory established to implement finance and exchange announcements are posted.
All requirements, judgmental issues and the treasury operations within limits set by the Board members attend the AGM and they findings of the external auditors Board, including such matters as authorities are available to answer shareholder for the operation of bank accounts and the questions.
the activities and effectiveness of the approval of bond and note issues, loan internal audit function facilities and guarantees.
com, provides current the relationship with the external auditors, Executive Team information on share prices, financial results including the engagement of auditors, the The Executive Team comprises the Chief and analysts presentations.
Information audit scope and approach, fees and Executive and other executive directors, regarding the AGM, results and other events performance and provision of non-audit together with the Chief Executive officer, are typically made available to shareholders services by the external auditors PaciCorp: Chief Executive officer, PPM: by webcast.
Group Director, Infrastructure: Group compliance with legal and regulatory Director, Commercial and Legal: Group Internal control requirements Director, Corporate Communications: Group The directors of ScottishPower have overall Director, Human Resources: Group Director, responsibility for the system of internal litigation and claims affecting the group.
Strategy: and the Group Company controls and for reviewing the effectiveness Secretary.
Operational control and of the system.
The system of internal Meetings of the Committee are normally implementation of group strategy and policy control is designed to manage rather than attended by the Chief Executive, Finance are responsibilities delegated by the Board eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Table 40 Board and Committee attendance during the year ended 31 March 2003 Charles Euan Mair Philip Sir Peter Nolan Ewen Nick Ian Charles David 3 Miller Smith Baird Barnes Carroll Gregson Karras Macpherson Rose Russell Berry Nish 1 2 N, A R N, R A N, R, A N, R, A R, A A N Board 12 meetings 12 8 11 11 11 12 12 1 12 12 10 Nomination Committee 5 meetings 5 4 5 5 5 Remuneration Committee 4 meetings 4 3 4 4 4 Audit Committee 7 meetings 7 77271 N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee A Audit Committee Committee Chairman 1 Resigned from the Audit Committee in April 2003 2 Appointed to the Audit Committee in January 2003 3 Appointed February 2003 | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 59 business objectives.
In pursuing these Chief Executive and Finance Director that The use of a well-dened risk management objectives, internal control can only provide they may sign their formal certication to methodology across all businesses allows a reasonable and not absolute assurance the Securities and Exchange Commission consistent and coordinated approach to risk against material misstatement or loss.
SEC in accordance with Section 302 of reporting for review by the Board, which the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. also receives regular reports on these The Executive Team is responsible for matters from the Audit Committee, to implementing the risk management Identication and evaluation of risks and enable the directors to review the strategy: ensuring that an appropriate risk control objectives effectiveness of the system of internal management framework is operating The companys strategy is to follow an control on a regular basis.
effectively across the company: appropriate risk policy, which effectively embedding a risk culture throughout the manages exposures related to the A key element and requirement of the risk group: and providing the Board and the achievement of business objectives.
evaluation process is that a written Audit Committee with a consolidated view certicate is provided quarterly by all of the risk prole of the company, Each business identies and assesses the members of the Executive Team, conrming identifying any major exposures and key business risks associated with the that they have reviewed the effectiveness mitigating actions.
achievement of its strategic objectives.
Any during the year of the system of internal key actions needed to further enhance the control under their responsibility.
The risk management framework and control environment are identied along internal control system across the group, with the person responsible for the Energy management which is subject to continuous development, management of the specic risk.
Each A Group Energy Risk Committee GERC provides the basis on which the company month a detailed review of the key risks, has been established to assist the Executive has complied with the Combined Code controls and action plans within each of the Team in ensuring that there is an appropriate provisions on internal control.
businesses takes place and a Risk Report is risk and control governance framework in produced for review and challenge by the place over energy activities.
The GERC meets Control environment board of each business.
This monthly Risk monthly and the key responsibility of this The company is committed to ensuring that Report is a standing item on the agenda of group is to make suitable recommendations a proper control environment is the business boards which operate to the Executive Team on energy-related risk maintained.
There is a commitment to throughout the group.
This is a key tool in management issues.
In addition, the Group competence and integrity and to the ensuring the active management of risk Energy Risk Director, with other members of communication of ethical values and across the organisation.
the GERC, continues to enhance business control consciousness to managers and processes and systems to ensure that all employees.
Employees are required to Business controls managers have been risks pertaining to operating the trading and adhere to the companys Code of Conduct appointed within each of the businesses to energy businesses are understood, and Disciplinary Rules.
Furthermore, in help ensure that the risk management and quantied, managed and reported on a compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act internal control system is consistently consistent basis across the group.
2002, the company has adopted a Code of adopted, updated and embedded into the Ethics for the Chief Executive, Finance business processes.
The GERC also provides advice and Director and principal accounting ofcers.
guidance to the businesses on interpretation Human resources policies underpin that The corporate centre also considers those and execution of the Group Energy Risk Policy.
commitment by a focus on enhancing job risks to the groups strategic objectives that skills and promoting high standards of may not be identied and managed at a Monitoring and corrective action probity among staff.
In addition, the business level.
The Executive Team reviews monthly the key appropriate organisational structure has risks facing the group and the controls and been developed within which to control the The Board and Executive Team on a monitoring procedures for these.
Operation businesses and to delegate authority and monthly basis receive the group-wide Risk of the groups control and monitoring accountability, having regard to acceptable Report together with supporting procedures is reviewed and tested by the levels of risk.
This report groups internal audit function under the highlights the most significant risks across supervision of the Director of Internal Audit, The company has developed a fraud policy the group and the actions being taken to reporting to the Finance Director and with and implemented procedures to ensure that mitigate them, and also identies the access to the Chairman of the Audit all incidences of fraud are appropriately individuals responsible for the Committee.
Internal audit reports and investigated and reported.
The recommendations on the groups information being supplied to the Board procedures are reviewed regularly by the A Disclosure Committee has been and Executive Team is continually being Audit Committee.
As part of their external established to ensure effective disclosure developed to include quantitative measures audit responsibilities, the external auditors controls are operating around the such as sensitivity analyses and Value-atalso provide reports to the Audit Committee production of key published financial Risk calculations for issues reported on in on the operation of the groups internal statements and to provide assurance to the the Group Energy Risk Report.
The Audit | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 60 Corporate Governance continued Committee also receives regular reports on factors that could materially affect these the continued development, implementation controls after the date of their evaluation.
and evaluation of the risk management and internal control system.
Social, environmental and ethical risks and opportunities Auditor independence Information regarding the social, The Audit Committee and the rm of environmental and ethical policies and external auditors have safeguards to avoid practices of the company can be found in the possibility that the auditors objectivity the separate Environmental and Social and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the Political donations and expenditure external auditor for non-audit-related ScottishPower is a politically neutral services.
This policy has been revised organisation but is required to comply with during the year to reect the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and Referendums Act 2000.
This legislation subsequent SEC rules.
defines political donations and expenditure in wider terms than would be Where it is deemed that the work to be commonly understood by these phrases.
undertaken is of a nature that is generally The denitions include expenditure which considered reasonable to be completed by the Board believes it is in the interests of the external auditors for sound commercial the company to incur.
The Act also requires and practical reasons, including companies to obtain prior shareholder condentiality, the conduct of such work will approval of this expenditure: at the Annual be permissible provided that it has been General Meeting in 2002, the company pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
obtained authorisation up to a maximum Examples of pre-approved services include amount of 100,000. the completion of regulatory audits, provision of taxation and regulatory advice, During the financial year ended 31 March reporting to the SEC and the UK Listing 2003, the company paid a total of 9,500 Authority and the completion of certain for activities which may be regarded as financial due diligence work.
All these falling within the terms of the Act.
These services are also subject to a pre-dened fee activities comprised the sponsorship of limit.
Any work performed in excess of this briefings, receptions and fringe meetings at limit must be approved by the Finance party conferences.
These occasions present Director and the Chairman of the Audit an important opportunity for the company Committee.
Details of audit and non-audit to represent its views on a non-partisan fees paid to the external auditors are basis to politicians from across the political contained in Note 2 to the Group profit and spectrum.
The payments do not indicate Loss Account on page 79. support, and are not intended to inuence support, for any particular political party.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and It should be noted that these activities do procedures Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 not contravene the restrictions on political The Chief Executive and the Finance contributions under the US Public Utility Director have evaluated the effectiveness of Holding Company Act of 1935, to which the the groups disclosure controls and company is subject.
procedures within 90 days of the date of this document.
Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive and Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all material respects to ensure that material information relating to the group would be made known to them by others within the group.
There have been no significant changes to the groups internal controls or in other
