31 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are required by the United disclosed and explained in the financial The maintenance and integrity of the Severn Kingdom Companies Act 1985 to prepare statements.
Trent Plc website is the responsibility of the financial statements for each financial year Directors: the work carried out by the auditors which give a true and fair view of the state The Directors have responsibility for ensuring does not involve consideration of these matters of affairs of the company and the group as at that the company keeps accounting records and, accordingly, the auditors accept no the end of the financial year and of the profit which disclose with reasonable accuracy responsibility for any changes that may have or loss of the group for the financial year.
at any time the financial position of the occurred to the financial statements since company and which enable them to ensure they were initially presented on the website.
The Directors consider that in preparing the that the financial statements comply with financial statements, the company has used the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing appropriate accounting policies, consistently the preparation and dissemination of financial applied and supported by reasonable and The Directors have general responsibility statements may differ from legislation in prudent judgements and estimates, and that for taking such steps as are reasonably other jurisdictions.
all United Kingdom Accounting Standards open to them to safeguard the assets of which they consider applicable have been the group and to prevent and detect fraud followed, any material departures being and other irregularities.
Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc We have audited the financial statements has not kept proper accounting records, accounting policies are appropriate to the which comprise the profit and loss account, if we have not received all the information companys circumstances, consistently the balance sheet, the cash ow statement, and explanations we require for our audit, applied and adequately disclosed.
the statement of total recognised gains and or if information specified by law regarding losses and the related notes.
We have also Directors remuneration and transactions is We planned and performed our audit so as to audited the disclosures required by Part 3 not disclosed.
obtain all the information and explanations of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 which we considered necessary in order to contained in the directors remuneration We read the other information contained provide us with sufficient evidence to give report the auditable part.
in the annual report and consider the reasonable assurance that the financial implications for our report if we become statements and the auditable part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors aware of any apparent misstatements or Directors remuneration report are free from and auditors material inconsistencies with the financial material misstatement, whether caused by The Directors responsibilities for preparing statements.
The other information comprises fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming the annual report, the Directors remuneration only the Directors report, the unaudited our opinion we also evaluated the overall report and the financial statements in part of the Directors remuneration report, adequacy of the presentation of information accordance with applicable United Kingdom the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief in the financial statements.
law and accounting standards are set out in Executives review, the operating and the statement of Directors responsibilities.
financial review and the corporate Opinion governance statement.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial The financial statements give a true and fair statements and the auditable part of the We review whether the corporate governance view of the state of affairs of the company Directors remuneration report in accordance statement reects the companys compliance and the group at 31 March 2003 and of with relevant legal and regulatory with the seven provisions of the Combined the profit and cash ows of the group for requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Code specified for our review by the Listing the year then ended: Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and The financial statements have been Board.
This report, including the opinion, has we report if it does not.
We are not required properly prepared in accordance with the been prepared for and only for the companys to consider whether the Boards statements Companies Act 1985: and members as a body in accordance with on internal control cover all risks and Those parts of the Directors remuneration Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and controls, or to form an opinion on the report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving effectiveness of the companys or groups to the Companies Act 1985 have been this opinion, accept or assume responsibility corporate governance procedures or its risk properly prepared in accordance with the for any other purpose or to any other person and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985. to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Basis of audit opinion  LLP agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, We report to you our opinion as to whether Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Birmingham 10 June 2003 the financial statements give a true and fair examination, on a test basis, of evidence view and whether the financial statements relevant to the amounts and disclosures in and the auditable part of the Directors the financial statements and the auditable remuneration report have been properly part of the Directors remuneration report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies It also includes an assessment of the Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our significant estimates and judgements made opinion, the Directors report is not consistent by the Directors in the preparation of the with the financial statements, if the company financial statements, and of whether the
