5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 14 14 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board has taken into consideration that The Hon James Grant governance is a partner of Stikeman Elliot, a Canadian law rm which, from time The Board is committed to high standards of corporate to time, provides legal advice to the Group.
In July 2003, the new Combined Code on Corporate Mr Grant to be independent notwithstanding his position as he is Governance was published and will take effect for the Company not involved in the provision of legal advice to the Company and for the financial year commencing on 1 January 2004.
The is not engaged in marketing the services of Stikeman Elliott to the Company has already taken steps to comply with the new Company.
Mr Grant was a board member of BioChem Pharma Inc.
Combined Code, notwithstanding that it is not required to do prior to its merger with the Company in 2001 and he brings a wealth so until its report for the 2004 financial year.
The Companys of experience and expertise to the Board.
compliance with the provisions of the new Combined Code is described in this corporate governance review.
Board changes There were several changes to the Board in 2003.
Mr Rolf Stahel, Throughout the period under review the Company has, in the the Companys former Chief Executive stepped down from the Directors opinion, i applied the principles of the Combined Board on 19 March 2003 and Dr Francesco Bellini and Mr Grard Code in effect for the 2003 financial year and ii complied with Veilleux stepped down from the Board as non-executive Directors the provisions of the Combined Code in effect for the 2003 on 10 May 2003.
Mr Matthew Emmens joined the Board as Chief financial year.
Executive officer on 12 March 2003 and Mr Robin Buchanan joined the Board as a non-executive Director and a member The Board of the Remuneration Committee on 30 July 2003.
The Board comprises three executive and five non-executive Directors and meets at least five times a year.
Board Meetings During 2003, there were 14 Board meetings of which five were The Board has overall responsibility for managing the Company face-to-face meetings and the remainder held by telephone.
Board and its strategic direction and seeks to provide effective leadership meetings are well attended.
The record of attendance by Directors and the control required for a listed company.
The Board has at Board meetings is set out below: formally reserved specic matters to itself for determination which include strategic issues, budgeting, changes in share capital, Number of meetings Out of approval of the Companys financial statements and entry into Directors attended possible % material contracts.
Matters not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the Executive Committee and to various other Board James Cavanaugh Chairman 14 14 100 committees set out below.
The Board receives detailed information Matthew Emmens Chief Executive officer 11 11 100 from executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior appointed 12 March 2003 managers to enable it to exercise its responsibility.
Angus Russell Chief Financial officer 14 14 100 Wilson Totten 14 14 100 All Directors have access to the advice and guidance of the Barry Price 14 14 100 Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent The Hon James Grant 13 14 93 advice at the Companys expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
Ronald Nordmann 14 14 100 The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the Robin Buchanan 5 6 83 knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions appointed 30 July 2003 required of a director of a listed company.
Rolf Stahel stepped down 19 March 2003 3 3 100 Dr Francesco Bellini 4 5 80 Biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on stepped down 10 May 2003 pages 10 and 11.
Grard Veilleux 3 5 60 stepped down 10 May 2003 Independent Directors The Board considers Dr James Cavanaugh, Dr Barry Price, The The non-executive Directors have met informally during the year Hon James Grant, Mr Ronald Nordmann and Mr Robin Buchanan without the Chairman and Chief Executive officer present but to be independent non-executive Directors.
The Board views each not as part of a structured programme.
It is intended that such of these non-executive Directors to be independent of management, meetings will be formalised in 2004. independent in judgement and character, and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere Chairman and Chief Executive officer with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The ofces of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are held separately.
The Chairman, Dr James Cavanaugh, is responsible The Board considered its non-executive Chairman, Dr James for the conduct of the Board and ensures that Board discussions Cavanaugh, to be an independent non-executive Director in are conducted in such a way that all views are taken into account, 2003.
Dr Cavanaugh is a member of the Companys Audit and so that no individual Director or small group of Directors Remuneration Committees and is Chairman of the Companys dominates proceedings.
The Chief Executive officer has the Nomination Committee.
As the new Combined Code contemplates general responsibility for running the business on a day to day that the Chairman should no longer be considered to be basis and chairs the Executive Committee.
independent, the Company will address this by changing the constitution of the Audit and Remuneration Committees The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief in 2004.
Executive officer are clearly dened, separate and have been approved by the Board.
5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 15 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements 15 Senior non-executive Director The Audit Committee met on 4 occasions during 2003.
Mr Ronald Dr Barry Price is the nominated senior independent non-executive Nordmann was the Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2003 and Director.
Dr Barry Price and Dr James Cavanaugh were members of the committee in 2003.
All members attended all meetings in 2003.
Supply of information The executive Directors and the Company Secretary are Mr Nordmann has been a financial analyst for over 30 years responsible for ensuring that detailed information is provided and accordingly is considered by the Board to have recent to Board members in advance of any scheduled Board meeting.
Before decisions are made consideration is given to the adequacy of information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions ii Remuneration Committee are deferred if further information is required.
The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board the policy for the setting of remuneration and incentivisation Re-appointment of the executive Directors and other senior executives and Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of two years, the xing of the terms of their employment.
The Remuneration subject to shareholder approval.
Re-appointment of non-executive Committee may engage external consultants to advise on Directors following the expiry of such two-year period is subject to any aspects of remuneration.
satisfactory performance and to Board approval.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined by At each Annual General Meeting, any Director who has been the Board.
appointed by the Board is required to seek re-election, together with, but not exceeding, one-third of the other Directors for the The Directors remuneration report appears on pages 18 to 29 time being.
Accordingly, no Director should serve for more than and provides further information on the role of this Committee.
three years without being subject to re-election by shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee met on 10 occasions in 2003.
Performance Appraisals Dr Barry Price chaired the Remuneration Committee in 2003 and The new Combined Code will require the Company to describe Dr James Cavanaugh was a member of this committee in 2003. how performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its Mr Grard Veilleux was a member until he stepped down from Directors has been conducted.
Whilst the Board has monitored the Board on 10 May 2003.
Mr Robin Buchanan joined the overall Board and individual Director performance during 2003, a Remuneration Committee on 30 July 2003.
Mr Veilleux was unable more formal performance evaluation for the Board, its committees to attend 2 of the 6 Remuneration Committee meetings which and for each Director will be introduced in 2004. took place before he stepped down from the Board, but otherwise all members attended all meetings.
Committees of the Board The Board has established the Audit Committee, the Remuneration iii Nomination Committee Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and Committee.
Each committee has its own written terms of reference nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll that have been approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for vacancies to the Board.
This Committee meets as required and in the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees have recently 2003 was chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Mr Ronald Nordmann, been revised and updated in light of new regulatory requirements The Hon James Grant and Dr Barry Price also served on this in the United States and the release of best practice guidance Committee in 2003.
All members attended all meetings in 2003. in the UK.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be made available on the Companys When considering appointments to the Board, the Nomination website in 2004.
Details of each committee are as follows: Committee takes into account the skills, knowledge and experience of the existing members of the Board and determines i Audit Committee the capabilities which are required of any new Director.
The The Audit Committee is required, amongst other things, to Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search review the effectiveness of internal control systems, to monitor consultants to assist it in the identication and nomination of the relationship with external auditors including discussing the new Board candidates.
scope of the audit and any issues arising from it, to review the Companys statutory accounts and other financial statements iv Executive Committee and information and to review the business risks faced by the The Executive Committee has the day-to-day management of Company.
The Audit Committee also proposes to shareholders the Company delegated to it by the Board and operates within the appointment or the reappointment of the external auditors clear and formal parameters.
The Executive Committee meets and is responsible for recommending their remuneration.
The Chief Executive officer is the Chairman of the Executive Committee, which in 2003 consisted of nine senior The Audit Committee is also required to approve any audit and executives including the three executive Directors.
The Executive non-audit services provided by the Companys auditors.
Any Committee reports to and seeks guidance from the Board on a such services are either approved by the Audit Committee, or if regular basis.
between scheduled Audit Committee meetings, by the Chairman of the Audit Committee who has been delegated responsibility for doing so or are provided under a pre-approval policy adopted by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is informed at each meeting of services approved by the chairman or provided under the pre-approval policy.
These procedures are intended to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 16 16 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements Director remuneration Code of Ethics The Companys remuneration policy is described in the Directors The Company is committed to the maintenance of high ethical remuneration report on pages 18 to 29.
The report details the level standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive The Groups Code of Ethics was reviewed and updated in remuneration is xed.
2003 and the amended version was approved by the Board in December 2003.
The Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and Executive Remuneration employees and is available for review on the Companys website.
The remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee, other than the executive Directors, is determined by the Chief Financial disclosure, internal control and the role of the Executive officer within policy guidelines set down by the auditors Remuneration Committee and is dependent on performance.
The Board has, through the Audit Committee, established formal and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal Relations with shareholders control and external auditing.
The Audit Committees terms of The Company is committed to maintaining constructive reference extend to the Companys risk management activities relationships with shareholders.
The Chief Executive officer and as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
the Chief Financial officer, supported by other senior executives, arrange individual and group meetings with major shareholders All employees can raise any concerns in any of these areas with throughout the year to discuss the Companys strategy and the Chairman of the Audit Committee in the strictest confidence.
performance and to understand the views of major shareholders, The Company operates a whistle-blowing policy which is the which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
The framework for a condential process through which all employees Chairman and the senior independent non-executive Director are able to report concerns relating to financial disclosure, internal also are available to meet with major shareholders.
control and other compliance issues in good faith without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
In addition, the Audit Committee The Company maintains a ow of information to its shareholders has introduced a procedure for the receipt and monitoring of through the announcement of quarterly results and the provision complaints relating to internal controls.
The Companys website at www.
com also provides information about the Company and its business and is i Financial reporting regularly updated.
The Companys Investor Relations department The Board has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
accounts and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
The Board strives to present a balanced and The Company holds its Annual General Meeting in London at understandable assessment of the Companys position and which shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions its prospects and endeavours to present scientific and other of the Directors.
price-sensitive information in a balanced way.
The Company publishes quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders Balanced and timely assessment of positions and prospects can monitor the Companys financial position regularly.
The Company strives to give timely assessments of matters that impact on its business and financial position and to present On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has the responsibility scientific and other price-sensitive data in a balanced way.
Before for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal financial it was required under SEC rules, the Company voluntarily adopted controls and the audit process.
The Audit Committee has quarterly financial reporting, which is not obligatory in the UK.
independent access to the auditors throughout the year in addition to presentations from the auditors on a quarterly basis.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Any significant findings or identied risks are closely examined The Company recognises the impact that its business may have and are reported to the Board with recommendations for action.
on people and the environment as well as the social implications of its operations on the general community.
The Company The Company has established a Disclosure Committee which is therefore attaches great importance to social and environmental chaired by the Chief Financial officer.
Its membership comprises issues and to ethical business practices.
Accordingly, ultimate senior managers from legal, finance and risk.
Its responsibility is responsibility for them is taken at the highest levels.
The Board to establish and maintain controls and other procedures to ensure reviews the Companys approach to corporate social responsibility that information disclosed to investors is recorded, summarised generally and the specic business risks related to Social, and reported accurately and to monitor the effectiveness of these Environmental and Ethical SEE matters.
The Disclosure Committee also has the responsibility for review and oversight of the Companys periodic reporting.
The Board receives advice and information from the CSR Committee to make this assessment.
The CSR Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial officer, was established during 2003.
It meets three times a year and is responsible for setting the policies and procedures that manage SEE issues, risks and opportunities.
SEE risks are managed within the overall framework of risk management, explained below under the heading internal control.
This year the Company has decided to produce a standalone report on CSR.
This is available on request or from the Shire website.
5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 17 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Corporate governance statements 17 Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the The internal review of the Companys control procedures and United States, the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial compliance with them is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
officer are required to complete formal certications, which The Companys outsourced internal audit function was operational confirm, inter alia, that: throughout 2003.
The majority of internal audit work during 2003 has been concentrated on internal financial controls and on the annual report in the United States on Form 10-K does achieving compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements, not contain any material misstatements or omissions: which is required by 31 December 2004.
This will continue in financial information reported in Form 10-K fairly presents 2004.
The Audit Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows the activity of the internal audit function, has reviewed the of the Company: effectiveness of the internal audit during 2003. the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer are responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls Although the Board and the Audit Committee receive reports and procedures: and on areas of significant risk to the Company and related internal the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer controls, there are limitations in any system of internal control have indicated in Form 10-K whether there were any and accordingly even the most effective system can provide significant changes in the Companys internal control only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
Such a system over financial reporting.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer have and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
completed these certications and they will be led with the SEC in the United States as part of the Company's annual report iii External auditing in the United States.
Whilst there is no formal requirement for The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the these certications to be given in connection with the accounts audit and non-audit services provided by the auditors, the cost prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, the UK statutory financial effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
statements have been prepared using the same processes.
Going concern basis ii Risk management and internal control After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a control, recognises its overall responsibility to maintain a sound reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
and the Companys assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going The Board has reviewed both the key risks faced by the Company concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems in 2003.
Outside of its review, the Board delegates responsibility to the Audit Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has kept these areas under review in 2003.
The Company has an integrated risk management and internal audit function.
The Head of Risk and Audit, whose appointment was confirmed by the Audit Committee, reports to the Chief Financial officer and attends and presents regularly at Audit Committee meetings.
The Head of Risk and Audit also has direct access to the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the other members of the Audit Committee.
The Company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation throughout the period under review and up to the date of the signing of the accounts.
This includes analysis of the impact on the operation of key risks and the action being taken to avoid or reduce each risk.
The risk schedule allocates responsibility for management of each key risk to appropriate senior executives.
The Company also has a system of control procedures.
Compliance with these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and regular reports on financial performance.
Any significant issues arising are reported to the Audit Committee.
