Corporate governance The board remains committed to maintaining high standards are delegated to the board committees, notably the Audit, of corporate governance throughout the group.
The Listing Remuneration and Nomination committees, which operate Rules of the Financial Services Authority require UK listed within clearly defined terms of reference, reporting regularly to companies to report on the manner in which they apply the the board.
Information on these committees is given below.
Principles of Good Governance and the extent to which they comply with the Provisions set out in the Code of Best The board comprises the non-executive Chairman Practice.
This report is published pursuant to the Code in Martin Adamson, the Chief Executive Peter Jackson, effect at the companys year end the Combined Code.
two other executive directors and three non-executive The principles of this Combined Code deal with directors, directors who are independent of management and have directors remuneration, relations and accountability to no relationships which would materially interfere with the shareholders and the audit of the company.
exercise of their independent judgement.
The board also includes Galen Weston, a non-executive, who is not Statement of compliance regarded as independent.
The board considers that the Following the publication in January 2003 of the Higgs non-executive directors provide a solid foundation for good Review on non-executive directors and the Smith Report corporate governance for the group and ensure that no on audit committees, the Combined Code has been amended individual or group dominates the boards decision making.
and the revised Code comes into effect for financial years Details of the full board are set out on pages 32 and 33. beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the revised Code.
The board has already implemented a review of its policies The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are in the area of corporate governance and as a result has separately held and are so defined as to ensure a clear implemented a number of changes to board procedures, division of responsibilities.
Lord MacGregor is the recognised its induction programme for new directors, and the terms of senior independent director, having taken up this role on reference for its board committees.
It will continue to review Professor Sir Roland Smiths retirement at the year end.
and take whatever steps it considers appropriate to reflect the revised Code provisions.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the directors retire by rotation at the annual general meeting The board considers that the company has fully complied with in each year subject to the requirement that each director the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code seeks re-election every three years.
during the year except in relation to the recommendation that the Remuneration committee should only comprise On joining the board, directors are given background independent non-executive directors.
The board of Associated documents describing the company and its activities.
British Foods plc does not accept this recommendation New directors are provided with an appropriate induction as it considers that Martin Adamson, as Chairman, should programme and site visits are arranged to major business participate in any decisions concerning remuneration due to units.
Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
his experience and the fact that encompassed in his role is the supervision of the board.
However, no director has any Board and committee papers are circulated to board involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
members in advance of the meetings.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular The board of directors contact with all directors and hold informal meetings with The business and the management of the company are the non-executive directors to discuss any issues affecting the responsibility of the whole board.
The board met formally group.
Senior executives below board level are invited, when nine times during the year.
There is a formal schedule of appropriate, to attend board meetings and make presentations matters reserved to the board for decision and these include on the results and strategies of their business units.
the approval of annual and interim results, the companys strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital expenditure The board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, and investment proposals and overall system of internal in pursuit of their duties, take independent professional control and risk management.
Other specific responsibilities advice on any matter at the companys expense.
Directors 36 Associated British Foods plc have direct access to the advice and services of the Remuneration committee Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Current members: MG Adamson, MR Alexander, JF Harris, board procedures are followed.
Lord MacGregor: chairman: MG Adamson.
Board committees Details of the Remuneration committee and its policies are Harry Bailey and Professor Sir Roland Smith were members set out on pages 39 to 45. of all three board committees until their retirements on 5 December 2002 and 13 September 2003 respectively.
Relations with shareholders Martin Adamson was a member of the Audit committee until The manner in which the company communicates with its 7 April 2003.
Jeff Harris was appointed to the board on shareholders is described in the corporate citizenship 21 May 2003 when he was also appointed to each of the section on pages 28 to 31 of the annual report.
He became chairman of the Audit committee on Professor Sir Roland Smiths retirement.
The annual general meeting takes place in London and formal notification is sent to shareholders approximately Nomination committee one month in advance.
The annual general meeting gives Current members: MG Adamson, MR Alexander, JF Harris, shareholders an opportunity to hear about the general Lord MacGregor: chairman: MG Adamson.
development of the business and to ask questions of the Chairman and the board.
The recent practice has been The terms of reference establish a framework through which for a short film to be shown at the meeting explaining the Nomination committee can review the balance and a particular area of the groups business.
effectiveness of the board to ensure suitable board candidates are identified and recommended for appointment as executive Accountability and audit and non-executive directors.
The members of the committee, The board is required by the Combined Code to present a who are all independent non-executive directors save for the balanced and understandable assessment of the companys chairman, ensure that this selection process is conducted position and prospects.
In relation to this requirement, in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
reference is made to the statement of directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements set out on page 46.
Audit committee The independent auditors report on page 47 includes a Current members: MR Alexander, JF Harris, Lord MacGregor: statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board recognises that its responsibility to present The Audit committee has terms of reference modelled a balanced and understandable assessment extends to closely on the revised Code provisions.
It meets regularly interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to receive and review reports from the external auditors and to regulators as well as information required to be presented from management.
The Audit committee is responsible by law.
for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the groups external auditors, reviewing the companys internal financial Going concern controls and the audit process.
The Audit committee aids the After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable board in seeking to ensure that the financial and non-financial expectation that the group has adequate resources to information supplied to shareholders presents a balanced continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this assessment of the companys position in view of the boards reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis responsibilities.
The committee reviews the objectivity and for preparing the financial statements on pages 48 to 77. independence of the external auditors and also considers the scope of their work and fees paid for audit and non-audit Internal control services.
The members of the committee who held office at The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups the year end and at the date of this report are all independent system of internal control to facilitate the management of non-executive directors.
risk, protection of shareholders investment and the groups Annual Report and Accounts 2003 37 Corporate governance continued assets.
The directors recognise that they are responsible operational level and centrally, with variances being for providing a return to shareholders, which is consistent reported promptly.
The cash position at group and with the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
operational level is monitored constantly and variances The board regularly considers the need for a central internal from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
audit function, but has concluded that it would be inappropriate to establish such a function at this time in view of the A significant part of the groups cash reserves is managed processes, described below, which are already in place.
by independent fund managers operating within detailed guidelines specified by the group relating to, inter alia, Effective controls ensure that the group is not exposed permitted investments and counterparties, currency to avoidable risk, proper accounting records have been exposures and approved instruments.
The balance of the maintained and the financial information used within the groups cash reserves is managed by its treasury function business and for publication is reliable.
The dynamics of the in accordance with guidelines referred to in the Finance group and the environment within which it operates are Directors report.
continually evolving along with its exposure to risk.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of assets Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital being unprotected and to guard against their unauthorised expenditure and investment decisions encompassing use and the failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal budgets, appraisal and review procedures and levels controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute of authority.
assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Risk management review The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for The detailed policies and internal control procedures identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the established at operational level are reviewed by group group, which has been in place for the year under review personnel.
Each business is responsible for regularly and up to the date of approval of the annual report and assessing its risk management activities to ensure good accounts and that they have regularly reviewed the system practice in all areas.
These assessments are reviewed of internal controls utilising the review process set out below.
by group personnel twice a year.
The Audit committee receives reports on internal financial control issues from Standards management and from the external auditors and regularly There are group-wide guidelines on the minimum reports to the board for the purposes of the boards requirements for health and safety and environmental annual review.
There are also group-wide guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that each of the divisions should exercise over specified processes.
Each business has developed and documented policies and procedures to comply with the minimum control standards established, including procedures for monitoring compliance and taking corrective action.
The board of each business is required to confirm annually that it has complied with those policies and procedures.
High level controls All operations prepare annual plans and budgets for operational and cash performance, which are updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at 38 Associated British Foods plc
