Corporate governance Combined Code the boards argument for their re-election.
Further Management structure set prior to his appointment to the board, all The board of directors is responsible for and details on all directors are provided in their biographies The board of directors is responsible for: directors were present at each meeting.
committed to the maintenance of the highest on pages 68 to 69. standards of corporate governance throughout the Setting the strategic direction of the group The schedule of matters reserved for the board group.
It supports the principles laid down in the Independence of non-executive directors Establishing high standards of behaviour includes health and safety, annual budgets, Combined Code on Corporate Governance the The groups non-executive directors bring wide Establishing policies and internal controls to strategic plans, payment of dividends, reporting Combined Code as updated following the Higgs and varied commercial experience to the boards safeguard the companys assets to shareholders, approval of acquisitions and Report Review of the role and effectiveness of deliberations and fully participate in the resolution Developing robust corporate governance and divestments, approval of major capital non-executive directors and Sir Robert Smiths of matters reserved for the board.
risk management procedures expenditure projects and consideration of recommendations in relation to audit committees.
Notwithstanding his presence on the board for a Monitoring operational performance.
As the revised code only became effective on period of more than nine years, the board considers The Company Secretary would minute any 1 January 2004, the company was not required that Andrew Simon remains an independent and The board of Associated British Ports ABP, the unresolved concerns expressed by any director.
to comply with it for the year ended 31 December valuable member of the board.
It benefits significantly groups principal subsidiary, manages operational Were a director to resign over an unresolved 2003.
However, as this report shows, the from his background and experience and considers matters relating to the UK business.
The ABP board issue, the Chairman would bring the issue to the company already complies with almost all of the him to be free from any business or other relationship consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group attention of the board.
The board has that could materially interfere with his independent Finance Director, the six Port Managing Directors agreed the additional steps required to achieve judgment.
In recognition of the experience he has for the groups UK operating units, the Group Board members are provided with all relevant full compliance during the year ending 31 gained through his non-executive involvement Property Director and the Engineering Director.
information on a timely basis in order to enable December 2004. with a range of UK and international businesses, the board to discharge its duties effectively.
The the board nominated Andrew as the Senior The AMPORTS board manages operational Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Board of directors Independent Director from 15 April 2003. matters relating to the groups USA business.
It directors are briefed properly on issues arising at Composition of the board comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group board meetings.
The board comprises a non-executive Chairman, Derek Sach, who provides the board with expertise Finance Director, the AMPORTS Chief Executive five independent non-executive directors and two in banking and treasury matters, is a senior executive Officer and the AMPORTS Chief Financial Officer.
All directors have access to the advice and executive directors.
The role of non-executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland plc, one of the services of the Company Secretary, who is Chairman is separate from the role of Group Chief groups key relationship banks.
As a result, he The executive directors and the ABP and responsible for ensuring that board procedures Executive and there is a clear division of responsibilities does not participate in any decisions in relation to AMPORTS boards operate within clearly defined are followed.
Andrew Simon became the Senior the selection of the groups banking relationships limits of authority and must refer any matters Independent Director following the retirement of or procurement of any financing or other derivative outside these limits to the board of directors for New directors receive background information on George Duncan on 15 April 2003. instrument from any financial institution.
the company, including board papers from recent excluded by the Royal Bank of Scotland plc from meetings, details of recent operating The board operates as a team and no individual any decisions that relate to the group.
Derek is How the board operates performance, annual budgets and strategic plans or group is encouraged to dominate the decisions considered by the board to be free from any The board meets eight times a year in the normal and analysts reports on the company.
business or other relationship that could materially course of business and maintains close dialogue directors without previous public company board interfere with his independent judgment.
Board meetings are held at experience would be provided with training on All directors are subject to election by shareholders the companys head office and the group's port their roles and responsibilities.
All directors are at the first opportunity after appointment, and to All non-executive directors are therefore locations around the UK.
permitted to undertake subsequent training re-election every three years.
Details of directors considered to be independent of management relevant to their duties at the companys expense.
submitted for re-election at the companys and free from any business or other relationship In 2003, the board met eight times.
With the Any director may also take independent forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM are that could materially interfere with their exception of Stuart Chambers, who missed two professional advice in furtherance of his duties at provided in the directors report, together with independent judgment.
meetings as a consequence of the dates being the companys expense.
74 During 2003, the independent non-executive The Committees terms of reference were updated Aubrey Adams directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, during the year and are now available from the Tim Bowdler met to assess the Chairmans performance.
Its key Stuart Chambers intended that this process will take place each duties include: Derek Sach year and that the Chairman will hold at least one Andrew Simon meeting a year with the non-executive directors in Keeping under review the scope, results and the absence of the executive directors.
The board effectiveness of the external audit, and the The Committee meets as and when necessary, has also implemented a formal annual independence and objectivity of the external and at least once a year.
It held one meeting in the performance evaluation for the board, its auditors presence of all members, except for Stuart committees and individual directors.
Making recommendations in relation to the Chambers, during 2003.
Members also maintain appointment or dismissal of external auditors, informal dialogue on an ongoing basis.
Board committees their remuneration and terms of reference There are three main committees of the board.
Reviewing the effectiveness of internal financial control and risk management systems, The Audit Committee including the internal audit function The Audit Committee comprises the following Monitoring the integrity of annual and interim non-executive directors: financial statements, particularly in relation to any significant financial reporting judgments Aubrey Adams Committee Chairman and compliance with Stock Exchange and Tim Bowdler legal requirements Derek Sach Monitoring compliance with policies in relation Andrew Simon to the procurement of non-audit services and employment of personnel previously employed Aubrey Adams, who is a qualified Chartered by the companys external auditors Accountant and has previously worked as Reviewing arrangements for the confidential group finance director of a UK listed company, reporting by employees of concerns relating to replaced Derek Sach as Chairman of the Audit financial reporting or other matters.
The Committees three meetings in 2003 were attended by all of The Remuneration Committee its members.
The company Chairman, Group A separate report on the Remuneration Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, nonCommittee is set out on pages 78 to 84 as part executive director Stuart Chambers, Head of of the companys remuneration report.
The Internal Audit and representatives from the Committees terms of reference are available companys external auditors were also invited to from the groups website, www.
The Committee also met with the Head of Internal Audit and The Nomination Committee representatives from the external auditors in the The Nomination Committee comprises the absence of executive directors.
The Chairman of companys non-executive Chairman as the Audit Committee maintains regular dialogue Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the with the external audit partner and the Head of following non-executive directors: Internal Audit between Committee meetings.
Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 75 Corporate governance The Committees terms of reference have been shareholders.
Ross Sayers, Chairman, and While it is subject to regular review and update, it updated recently and are available from the Andrew Simon, Senior Independent Director, should be recognised that such systems can groups website at www.
Its duties also maintain contact with major shareholders provide only reasonable, and not absolute, include reviewing the size, structure and to ensure that any potential concerns can be assurance against material misstatement or loss.
composition of the board and succession raised directly.
The Committee takes into account the During 2003, procedures were in place balance of skills, knowledge and experience of The company issues trading statements in throughout the group to ensure compliance with the board in making its recommendations and advance of its close periods and provides an the report of the Turnbull Committee Internal uses external search firms or open advertising to indication of trading at the time of the AGM.
All Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined compile shortlists of candidates for board board members attend the AGM and, in Code.
The key components of the groups membership.
particular, the chairmen of the Audit, Nomination system of internal control are described below.
and Remuneration Committees are available to Relations with shareholders answer questions.
Resolutions are proposed on The group has in place clearly defined lines of The board is committed to maintaining good each substantially separate issue and the agenda responsibility and limits of delegated authority.
Other than includes a resolution to adopt the groups Annual Comprehensive procedures provide for the during close periods, the Group Chief Executive Report & Accounts.
Notice of the AGM is sent to appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and the Group Finance Director maintain a regular all shareholders at least 20 working days before expenditure.
dialogue with institutional shareholders the meeting.
Details of the proxy votes for and throughout the year.
The executive directors give against each resolution are announced after the The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance presentations to institutional shareholders and result of the hand vote is known.
Director and senior operational and financial analysts immediately after the announcement of managers meet on a regular basis to discuss the groups half-year and full-year results.
These The groups Annual Report & Accounts, particular issues affecting each business unit, are subsequently made available on the groups preliminary and interim announcements, trading including their major risks.
The group also encourages statements and press releases are available on its communications with private shareholders website, www.
All communications The group maintains a comprehensive annual throughout the year and welcomes their from the company can be obtained in electronic planning and management reporting system.
form by e-mailing pr@abports.
detailed annual budget is prepared in advance of each year and supplemented by revised The Group Chief Executive and the Group Going concern forecasts during the course of the year.
In Finance Director also conduct one-to-one formal After making enquiries, the directors believe that addition, a three-year strategic plan is updated meetings with the groups key shareholders the group and the company have adequate annually.
Actual financial results are reported following the announcement of half-year and fullresources to continue in operational existence for monthly and compared to budget, revised year results.
The group obtains independent the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they forecasts and prior-year results.
The board feedback on these meetings through its continue to adopt the going concern basis in reviews all reports for approval.
This is circulated to all board preparing the financial statements.
members along with other feedback received The internal audit function supports the directors during the meetings.
Internal control in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls The board acknowledges that it has overall at each business unit through a pre-agreed audit The company aims to facilitate any requests responsibility for the group's system of internal programme.
This programme addresses the full from its shareholders for meetings with board control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The spectrum of the groups potential risks by directors and responds formally to all queries and system is designed to manage, rather than undertaking reviews in areas such as health and requests for information from existing or potential eliminate, risk in achieving business objectives.
safety, environment and information technology.
76 Where control weaknesses are identified, corrective understanding of the risks and responses the board on a regular basis.
In addition, risk coaction is taken and, where appropriate, communicated required for success.
The groups definition of ordinators submit regular updates to head office to other operating units to encourage and enhance risk is an uncertainty or event that could, unless on risks relevant to their operations.
best practice around the group.
effectively managed, significantly affect Associated British Ports Holdings PLCs ability Compliance with the provisions Every year, each operating unit completes a control to achieve its current or future objectives.
of the Combined Code self-assessment questionnaire that measures The board considers that the company has and assesses risk areas and principal controls.
The group has identified five major risk complied in full with the principles set out in This questionnaire is part of the risk management management objectives: Section 1 of the original Combined Code process and is reviewed by internal audit.
The throughout the year ending 31 December 2003. results, which are presented to the Audit Committee, To ensure that the health and safety of its complement the existing internal and external employees and other persons is not put at risk audit procedures.
by its undertaking To continue to avoid disasters or catastrophes Risk management by managing those physical and other risks As recommended by the Turnbull Committee, that have the potential to damage significantly the group maintains a risk management working the financial position of the group, its reputation group to identify the major risks facing the group or its ability to provide services and formalise the groups risk objectives and risk To identify, assess and prioritise opportunities management processes.
This working group to grow the business, having regard for the comprises senior executives from the groups need to manage the groups commercial risks operations and is chaired by the Group Finance In operating its business, to endeavour to meet Director.
The working groups recommendations the demands of trade while having due regard are reviewed and updated annually and have for the potential impact of its activities on the been adopted by the board.
environment To ensure that it has in place mechanisms to The embedded risk management processes understand, monitor and meet its obligations to described below take into account the significance all its stakeholders.
of any potential social, environmental and ethical issues applicable to the groups operations.
The group aims to manage risk wherever possible These processes enable the board to receive by embedding processes and ensuring controls to information on all significant risks and facilitate manage risk are inherent in day-to-day operations.
the formulation of effective responses on a timely To this end, monthly reports received by the Group basis.
All risks, including significant social, Chief Executive from the operating units cover environmental and ethical risks, which could key aspects of the business such as commercial impact on the groups shortand long-term matters, health and safety issues, personnel issues, objectives are identified, quantified, assessed for financial results and future business prospects.
These reports also comment on existing risks and identify specifically any emerging risks along with The groups overall risk management objective is actions being taken to manage them.
Risks such to take such strategic and commercial risks as as health and safety and the environment are enable it to grow the business through a thorough further monitored by written reports submitted to Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 77
