Corporate Governance The Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines and Responsibility Statement on social responsibility continue to be recognised by the Board, which understands that the value of shareholders investments could be affected by any failure to meet societys reasonable expectations.
Scottish and Southern Energy seeks to run The Board has nine scheduled meetings its entire business and maximise profits in each year and meets more frequently as a way which is responsible, safe, customerrequired.
During the year all Directors focused and commercially aware.
In attended each of the nine scheduled keeping with this and with due regard to meetings.
The Board has specifically the continuing developments in the field of reserved to it authority in respect of areas corporate governance, it has continued to significant to the Groups business.
keep under review its commitment to high standards of governance.
The Board receives detailed financial and operational information in order for it to Combined Code monitor effectively the performance of the Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 key areas of the business.
the Group complied with the provisions of the Combined Code of Corporate All Directors are required under the Governance set out in the Listing Rules of Articles of Association to stand for the Financial Services Authority.
The Board re-election at least every three years.
Any acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring Director appointed by the Board during that an adequate system of internal control the year has also to be subject to election at exists which accords with the requirements the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
of the Turnbull Committee guidance.
The new Finance Director, Gregor Alexander, is being proposed for election at the AGM.
The Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social responsibility The Board is aware of the current debate continue to be recognised by the Board, on the structure and composition of Boards, which understands that the value of which has been given renewed focus by the shareholders investments could be affected Higgs Report.
In order to prepare for the by any failure to meet societys reasonable future and to enhance the performance of expectations.
The Boards approach to risk the Board, three new non-Executive management encompasses any possible Directors are being proposed for election exposure to these issues.
Sir Robert Smith, Mr Ren Mdori and Mrs Susan Rice are Board of Directors all independent as defined in the Higgs The Board currently consists of a nonReport.
The Board will be reviewing Executive Chairman, five non-Executive membership of the various Committees of Directors and five Executive Directors, thus the Board in the light of these appointments.
achieving an appropriate balance of The Board considers that their independence and experience.
The Board qualifications and experience will enhance considers that all the non-Executive the performance of the Board and bring Directors and the Chairman are increased expertise to the Board.
All of independent of management and free of any the non-Executive Directors have been relationship that would materially interfere appointed for fixed terms of three years.
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The senior independent Director There is an agreed procedure for Directors is the Deputy Chairman, Ian Grant.
to be able to take independent professional Biographical details of the Directors are advice in the furtherance of their duties, if shown on page 43. necessary, at the Groups expense.
Directors receive an appropriate induction course on Due to the complexity and regulated nature joining the Board, and are fully briefed in of the energy sector, the Group, when advance of all Board meetings on all appropriate, seeks to retain the services of matters to be discussed including regular non-Executive Directors for periods longer business and financial reports.
than may be the custom in other sectors, due to their experience and knowledge.
This An appraisal system has been agreed by the accumulated experience and knowledge, in Board for evaluation of the Board, its turn, helps the Board to discharge its duties Committees and the individual Directors.
These evaluations will be carried out on an annual basis.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance The Directors have overall responsibility for and Responsibility Statement the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Board Committees Directors remuneration, including bonuses The Board has established three principal and the granting of incentives under the committees, and the terms of reference of companys schemes.
The Remuneration each have been reviewed by the Board Committee comprises the following nonduring the course of the year.
The Company Executive Directors: Secretary acts as Secretary of each of the Committees.
Ian Grant Chairman Dr Bruce Farmer The Audit Committee comprises theDavid Payne following non-Executive Directors, Nick Timpson appointed by the Board: The Boards Remuneration Report is set out Sir Graeme Odgers Chairman on pages 46 to 50.
Henry Casley Dr Bruce Farmer The Nomination Committee comprises Nick Timpson the following Directors, appointed by the Board: It reviews the financial reports of the Group, considers the results of the auditorsDr Bruce Farmer Chairman examination of Group Accounts and reviewsSir Graeme Odgers the programme of work of the GroupsIan Marchant internal audit function.
It meets regularlyIan Grant with management and with the internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness It meets when necessary to consider the of the Groups systems of internal control composition and balance of the Board and business risk management on behalf of and recommends suitable candidates the Board.
The Committee receives reports for appointment as Directors and on a large number of different activities re-appointments to the Board.
During the within the Group, including areas where year the Nomination Committee met on there could be significant risk such as four occasions, and all members attended energy trading and treasury.
reports are also provided to the Committee to ensure appropriate actions are completed.
For biographical details of all Directors, The Committee also reviews the terms of see page 43. appointment of the external auditors, partner rotation and the level of fees for Internal Control non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and The chairman of the Audit Committee risk management and for monitoring their reports to the Board following each meeting effectiveness.
The purpose of these systems of the Committee on the main areas and is to manage, rather than eliminate, the subjects it has reviewed, such as risk risk of failure to achieve business management, internal control matters, objectives, and provide reasonable internal audit reports and any issues arising assurance as to the quality of management from its review of Group Accounts.
During information and to maintain proper control the year, the Audit Committee met on three over the income, expenditure, assets and occasions, and all members attended each liabilities of the Group.
It also met with the external auditors without management present.
No system of control can, however, provide The policy on fees paid to Audit Committee absolute assurance against material members is explained in the Remuneration misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the Report on page 47.
Directors have regard to what controls, in their judgement, are appropriate to the The Remuneration Committee is responsible Groups businesses, to the materiality of for formulation of remuneration policy and the risks inherent in these businesses, approving all aspects of Executive and to the relative costs and benefits of Scottish and Southern Energy plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Ethical principles govern the way Scottish and Southern Energy goes about its business.
The Board has committed the Group to five key ethical principles.
The Board The annual FT-SE 100 Audit Fees survey maintains an ongoing process of identifying, was featured in Financial Director evaluating and managing the key magazine in January 2003.
It showed that commercial, financial and general risks to SSE had the fourth lowest other fees to the Groups business.
This process is auditor of any FT-SE 100 company.
regularly reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee, and has been in place for The company has in place a formal policy the whole year.
governing and controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Control is maintained through an This policy specifies areas of work from organisational structure with clearly which the auditors are excluded: financial defined responsibilities, authority levels and thresholds above which non-audit work lines of reporting: the appointment of is to be put to competitive tender: and suitably qualified staff in specialised a mechanism for approval in exceptional business areas: and continuing investment circumstances.
in high quality information systems.
These methods of control are subject to periodic Going Concern review as to their implementation and The Directors consider that the Group has continued suitability, and have been in place adequate resources to continue in throughout the year and up to the date of operational existence for the foreseeable approval of the accounts.
The accounts are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
There are established procedures in place for regular budgeting and reporting of Ethical Principles financial information.
The Groups Ethical principles govern the way the Group performance is reviewed by the Executive goes about its business.
The Board has Directors and the Board.
Reports include committed SSE to five key ethical principles: variance analysis and projected forecasts for the year compared to approved budgetsseeking to meet the needs of, and and non-financial performance indicators.
contributing to the welfare of, customers by supplying energy to them and the There are Group policies in place covering a communities it serves in a way which wide range of issues such as financial is reliable, safe and represents value authorisations, IT procedures, health and for money: safety and environmental risks.
The business risks associated with the Groupsachieving the highest standards of health operations are regularly assessed by the and safety performance so that employees Board and the Audit Committee.
There is a and contractors are able to carry out Risk Committee comprising four Executive their responsibilities in the safest possible Directors, together with senior managers, manner, reflecting the fact that safety which meets regularly to review risks will never be compromised for business and authority levels in key areas of the interests or operational pressures: Groups activities.
being actively responsible towards The effectiveness of the Groups systems of current and future generations by internal control is monitored by the Groups prioritising and continually improving internal audit department.
Its reports, the environmental performance of which include where appropriate relevant its activities: action plans, are distributed to senior managers, Directors and external auditors, enabling employees to derive the and the findings are reviewed regularly by maximum possible benefit from their the Audit Committee.
employment with the Group, through participation in its affairs, active There remains significant concern about the encouragement of share ownership and extent of non-audit work carried out for the maintenance of effective policies on audit clients by leading accountancy firms.
issues such as equal opportunities: and Scottish and Southern Energy plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Active responsibility towards current and future and Responsibility Statement generations is important to the success of Scottish and Southern Energy.
Health and safety is a core value in the business and an updated Environment Policy has been agreed and issued.
taking proper account of the interests and updated Environment Policy has been of the communities in which Scottish agreed and issued, which commits SSE and Southern Energy operates and to continually improving the environmental assisting in projects which fall within performance of its activities and moving agreed criteria, including the interests towards a more sustainable and effective of young people, safety, environment life cycle for processes, products and and energy efficiency.
The Director with lead responsibility for the Environment The Group actively encourages best practice at Board level is David Sigsworth.
on the part of contractors and suppliers through the evaluation of their policies Over several years SSE has reduced and approaches to health, safety and emissions from its thermal power stations environment issues.
Their practices have and has the most thermally efficient stations to equal the Groups standards or they in the UK.
In addition, SSE owns and will not be employed.
operates nearly half of the UKs renewable energy capacity.
In 2002 03, carbon dioxide Health and Safety emissions from SSEs own generation SSE recognises the need to conduct its portfolio were however 8.3 million tonnes, business in such a way as to ensure, as far compared with 7.2 million tonnes in the as is reasonably practicable, that employees previous year reflecting the exceptionally and others who may be affected by its low hydro output in 2002 03. operations are not exposed to risks to their health and safety.
Health and safety is a core More generally, SSE focuses on use value in the business and, as a minimum, of resources, pollution control, waste SSE strives to fulfil both the spirit and the management and ecology and amenity.
letter of the law and, in addition, take a Full details of environmental performance proactive approach to achieve a continual in 2002 03, and targets for 2003 04, are improvement in performance.
set out in the Environment Annual Report 2003, which can be found at www.
scottishIn line with this, SSE issued a revised southern.
co. uk or by calling the number on Health and Safety Policy in October 2002, the back cover of this Report.
part of which commits to the provision of appropriate instruction, training, retraining To benchmark its activities, SSE participated and supervision in health and safety to in the seventh Business in the Environment maintain and improve the competence Index of Corporate Environmental levels of all employees.
The Safety and Engagement, the results of which were Environment Manual has the status of a announced in March 2003.
SSEs overall work instruction, with which all employees score improved from 97% in the previous must comply.
The Director with lead year to 98%, making it the top performing responsibility for Health and Safety electricity company and the top performing at Board level is Colin Hood.
It meant SSE featured in BiEs Premier League of companies.
In the year to 31 March 2003, there were a According to BiE, environmental total of 28 lost-time and reportable injuries management remains exceptionally strong across the entire SSE Group, the same as within SSE, with full marks received in in the previous year.
SSE believes that most areas.
all injuries should be preventable, and for this reason is reinforcing and refreshing Encouraging energy efficiency is also a key its approach to safety, with a particular part of SSEs environmental responsibilities, emphasis in 2003 04 on driving safety and the Environment Annual Report 2003 both in and out of work.
includes the Energy Efficiency Annual Report.
In 2002 the Government introduced Environment the Energy Efficiency Commitment Active responsibility towards current EEC for the period 2002 to 2005. and future generations is important to the This requires electricity and gas suppliers success of SSE.
In line with this, a revised in Great Britain to achieve targets for Scottish and Southern Energy plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Scottish and Southern Energy believes that its first corporate responsibility is to maintain supplies of electricity to the people and communities it serves.
the promotion of energy efficiency, with an Ownership of shares in the Group has emphasis on helping lower income customers.
been encouraged by means of a share incentive plan, which enables staff to buy SSEs target for reducing energy partnership shares in the Group up to a consumption in the period 2002 to limit of 125 a month using pre-tax and 2005 will not be finalised until 2004, national insurance salary.
SSE currently but it is expected to be around 6,000GWh, matches the partnership shares purchased, representing almost one tenth of the total on a one-for-one basis, up to 30 per month.
EEC target for all suppliers.
The Group has In 2002 03, 2,460 staff participated in the made good progress in achieving the EEC, plan.
A total of 3,540 staff participate in with savings achieved at the end of March a separate Save-As-You-Earn scheme.
2003 amounting to over 3,000GWh, or 50% of the Groups expected total target Participation in SSEs affairs is encouraged for the period to 2005. through team meetings, briefings and an internal magazine.
During the year, Research and Development employees were invited to attend and SSE pursues a range of research and participate in roadshow sessions with development programmes, particularly for directors and senior managers.
Policies increasing energy efficiency and for energy on matters such as Equal Opportunities, management of the remoter parts of its including opportunities for disabled people, network.
In total, expenditure on research and Health and Safety are readily available and development was 1m in 2002 03. to staff via an Intranet and are geared to supporting staffs needs during their SSE is working in partnership with Talisman employment with SSE.
The Employment Energy to examine the feasibility of using Act 2002 is the latest legislation dealing the Beatrice oil field infrastructure in the with the employer employee relationship, Moray Firth as the hub for a large offshore and SSE has taken great care to ensure wind farm.
The companies are building that its policies take full account of demonstration machines to verify the its requirements.
technical viability of the project.
The Group as a whole directly employed In addition, SSE has formed a joint 9,474 staff at the end of March 2003, venture with The Weir Group to invest in the compared with 9,354 the year before.
development of renewable power generation and control systems.
The purpose of the joint Communication with Shareholders venture is to stimulate new technologies for The Directors acknowledge the importance wave and tidal energy, and other related of communication with shareholders.
technologies, through the provision of a There is a continual programme of meetings dedicated fund.
between Executive Directors and major shareholders on a wide range of issues.
Employees The non-Executive Directors receive Enabling employees to derive the maximum feedback on these meetings on a regular possible benefit from their employment with basis to allow them to form a view of SSE remains one of the principles which the the priorities and concerns of institutional Board has adopted.
In line with this, there investors.
All Directors were present at is active encouragement of share ownership, the Annual General Meeting in 2002 and opportunities for employees to participate all intend to be present at the meeting in in SSEs affairs and the development of 2003 to answer shareholders questions.
effective policies on employee issues.
Customers and Communities There is a well-established Joint Negotiating SSE believes that its first corporate and Co-ordinating Council, which has a responsibility is to maintain supplies of consultative and negotiating role, and which electricity to the people and communities includes lay and full-time representatives it serves.
For this reason, the operational from five trade unions.
performance of Power Systems, set out Scottish and Southern Energy plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Scottish and Southern Energy believes that employees and Responsibility Statement should be enabled and encouraged to be active citizens in the communities in which they live and work.
For this reason, a scheme has been introduced by which funds raised by employees for charitable and community purposes are matched by the Group.
on pages 9 and 10 is a key performance indicator.
Similarly, performance against Ofgems Guaranteed Standards of Performance, which deal with issues such as making and keeping appointments, responding to enquiries and estimating charges, is vital.
Ofgems latest report, published in February 2003, confirmed that SSE delivers the highest standard of performance in these areas.
Financial support is provided by SSE for projects undertaken by National Energy Action NEA and Energy Action Scotland to address fuel poverty.
The commitment to service for customers and communities is also reflected in the retention of Scottish Hydro-Electric shops throughout the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
These shops, while profitable, also provide an important service in many small and remote communities.
SSE believes that employees should be enabled and encouraged to be active citizens in the communities in which they live and work.
For this reason, it has introduced a scheme by which funds raised by employees for charitable and community causes are matched by the Group up to a limit of 500 per employee.
In addition, SSE and its staff have raised around ST 800,000 for NSPCC and Children 1, since 2000, as part of its commitment to raise 1m for the charities by 2005.
SSE runs a Visitors Centre at Pitlochry Power Station, Perthshire, and the Museum of Electricity in Christchurch, Dorset, which provide free visits for schools to give children the opportunity to learn about electricity.
More than 10,000 children visited the two facilities during the year.
Overall, in 2002 03, SSE directly supported charitable and community activities with donations totalling over 300,000.
No political donations were made.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
