SSL International plc 26 Corporate Governance Annual Report 2003 Combined Code The mix of skills and experience of the The Remuneration Committee The number of scheduled Board Listed companies are required to Board ensures that matters are properly comprises all the Non-Executive meetings attended by each Director 1 disclose how they have applied the debated and that no one Director or Directors and is chaired by Tim Howden.
during the year was as follows: principles of Section 1 of the Combined group dominates the Boards decisionIt is responsible for determining Board meetings Code on Corporate Governance, which making process.
Non-Executive contractual terms and remuneration Attnd Non attnd is appended to the Listing Rules of Directors are appointed for a specified for the Executive Directors and certain the Financial Services Authority the term.
All Directors are subject to resenior executives.
The Group Human Brian Buchan 7 Combined Code and whether they election at the first AGM following Resources Director attended as Garry Watts 7 have complied with the Combined their appointment and at least every Secretary throughout the year.
Steven Eastwood 7 Codes provisions during the year.
The Chief Executive and Company Andrew Slater The Group has complied with the Secretary attended by invitation.
resigned 30.04.03 7 Combined Code, with exception of The Company Secretary ensures that The Company Secretary is now Ian Martin 7 the provisions relating to Directors Board procedures are followed and Committee Secretary.
This report, together all Directors have access to his advice with the Remuneration Report on pages and services.
The Company will also The Remuneration Report on pages 29 Bernd Beetz 6 1 29 to 34 explain how the Group has arrange for appropriate training and to 34 provides full details on the Groups Tim Howden 7 complied with the Combined Code.
From policy on executive remuneration Peter Read 7 time to time updates are provided and Directors packages.
Throughout Alain Strasser The Board covering developments on company the financial year, the Group complied resigned 16.05.03 7 The Board consists of three Executive law, corporate governance and other with the provisions on the design Rod Sellers Directors, the Non-Executive Chairman key areas.
of performance-related remuneration 1 resigned 16.07.02 2 and four other Non-Executive Directors, as set out in Schedule A of the all of whom are considered independent A procedure exists for Directors to take Combined Code.
Internal Control of management and free from any independent professional advice at the The Board is responsible for the business or other relationship which Companys expense in the furtherance The Nomination Committee comprises maintenance of internal controls and could materially interfere with of their duties.
the Chief Executive and all the Non- 1 reviewing its effectiveness.
This includes the exercise of their independent Executive Directors.
The Committee financial, operational and compliance judgement.
Following Rod Sellers Board Committees advises on Board appointments as controls, together with risk management.
resignation on 16 July 2002, The Board has established four principal necessary and is chaired by Ian Martin.
The controls are designed to manage Tim Howden became the Senior committees.
Terms of reference for rather than eliminate the risk of failure Independent Director.
Biographical each committee have been agreed The Risk Management Committee to achieve business objectives and can details for all current Directors and by the Board.
The composition and RMC is chaired by the Director of only provide reasonable and not the Company Secretary are given role of each committee is as follows: Group Treasury with the Head of absolute assurance against material on pages 24 and 25.
There is a clear Internal Audit attending as Secretary.
The Board has division of responsibility between The Audit Committee is chaired by It comprises the Executive Directors established a process for internal control the Chairman, who leads the Board Eric Anstee and comprises all the Nonand selected Group and Divisional 1 which was in place throughout the and the Chief Executive, who is Executive Directors.
The Committee considers financial year under review and up responsible for running the business.
strategic risks to which the Group may to the date of approval of the Annual Board meetings are scheduled for The Chief Executive, Group Finance be exposed and proposes appropriate Report and Accounts.
every other month and there is a Director, Head of Internal Audit and mitigation strategies to management.
formal schedule of matters reserved other senior members of the finance In addition it receives reports from for its approval, which include setting function are also invited to attend, the Head of Internal Audit on the strategy, annual and interim results, although the Committee meets external effectiveness of the risk management annual budget and treasury policy, auditors at least once a year without of process at Divisional level.
The major acquisitions, disposals, capital executives present.
This Committee Audit Committee receives a report on expenditure and the monitoring of ensures that financial information the operational effectiveness of the operational and financial performance.
supplied to shareholders provides a RMC and the Chairman of the Audit The Board has adopted a Code of balanced assessment of the Groups Committee has a standing invitation Practice which governs the calling position, and it reviews the system of to attend meetings.
of meetings, pre-circulation of papers, internal control and the effectiveness review of Committee membership of the external and internal audit In addition to the above, the Leadership and terms of reference.
To perform its function, the Team, which comprises the Executive Committee receives regular reports Directors and certain other senior from both internal and external auditors.
executives meets on a regular basis and deals with day-to-day management of the Group including the review of monthly financial reports compared to budget and taking any action where necessary.
SSL International plc 27 Annual Report 2003 The Board reviews the effectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Shareholder Relations of the system of internal control at least There is Board level responsibility for The Board recognises the importance annually, and is confident that it CSR matters.
A CSR working group of open communications with complies fully with the internal control has been established and reports institutional and private shareholders.
guidance for Directors in the Combined to the Leadership Team.
Key elements of the review include: managers and analysts are briefed Environment: A separate environment at presentations and regular meetings Reviewing the updated Group and report is being sent to shareholders and with Executive Directors.
In addition, Divisional risk matrices from the is available on the corporate website.
the Board responds continually to RMC assisted by an ongoing review ad-hoc requests for information from of internal controls by the Internal Health and safety: The Group is all shareholders.
The AGM provides Audit function in line with the audit committed to ensuring employees an opportunity for shareholders to plan agreed by the Audit Committee operate in a health and safety conscious raise questions with the Chairman and Group Finance Director: environment.
The Group Health and and the Board.
Ensuring Group policies and Safety department works closely with procedures are in place for management, staff and others.
The main source of information all areas considered at risk: for the private investor is the Annual Requiring a Letter of Assurance Ethical: A revised ethics policy was issued Report and Accounts.
Further investor from all statutory business units in October 2001 and requires staff to information, including copies of within the Group, stating behave ethically to all stakeholders.
previous Annual Reports and Accounts, compliance with Group policies, press releases, analyst presentations, identification of business risks Examples of further progress in the share price performance, financial and internal control confirmation: Groups relationships with stakeholders results and answers to frequently asked Consideration of reports from are given in the Operating Review.
questions are available on the Groups internal and external audit on the website www.
com system of internal and material Going Concern control weaknesses: Having made appropriate enquiries, Note: Ensuring each business unit the Board is satisfied that the Group 1.
Rod Sellers and Alain Strasser completes an updated Control Risk has adequate resources to continue who resigned as Non-Executive Self Assessment, which are centrally in business for the foreseeable future.
Directors on 16 July 2002 and collated and reviewed: and Therefore, the going concern basis 16 May 2003 respectively were Assessing the year end reporting continues to be appropriate in preparing members of the Remuneration, process throughout the Group the financial statements.
including visits to selected locations Both Directors were considered by the Internal Audit function independent.
to assist in year end close and issue resolution.
