Corporate governance 2003 The Group is committed to high standards of corporate appointment and subsequently such training or briefings as are governance.
The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders considered necessary to keep abreast of matters affecting their and others for the Groups activities and is responsible for the duties as directors.
The number of full Board meetings during the effectiveness of corporate governance practices within the Group.
The full Board meets once a year at an operational In accordance with the Listing Rules issued by the Financial location and regular verbal communication is maintained by the Services Authority, this statement describes how the principles of Chairman to ensure all directors are briefed on strategic and good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined operational issues.
Non-attendance at the Board or its committees occurs only in very exceptional circumstances.
The Board has a number of The Board notes both the report of Derek Higgs on the role and matters reserved for its consideration, with principal effectiveness of non-executive directors and the accompanying responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment report by Sir Robert Smith on audit committee reform.
The policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor Group currently complies with many of the recommendations performance of senior management, to ensure that there are contained in the two reports and will review its current corporate proper internal controls in place and to vet acquisitions or governance practices in light of the recommendations contained disposals.
All directors have full and timely access to information within these and the timescales set for compliance.
with Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
On 21 July 2002, the Board appointed Robert Speirs, previously The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each the senior independent non-executive director, as non-executive director under review and changes in responsibilities for example Chairman.
Brian Souter was appointed Group Chief Executive at in the composition of Board committees during the year are the same time.
made where necessary to improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better control, certain of The Board the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
The Stagecoach Board currently comprises the Chairman who is a non-executive director, the Group Chief Executive, two other The operational management of the Group is delegated by the executive directors and five other non-executive directors.
Five of Board to the Group Chief Executive and executive directors.
The the six non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be executive directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet independent.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief Executive regularly face-to-face or in videoconferences with non-board have been separately held since 1998. senior management.
There are four principal operating divisions UK Bus: Coach USA: Overseas Bus: Rail which each comprise a The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and varying number of autonomous business units, each headed by a shareholders are properly conducted and is responsible for setting chairman or managing director who is responsible for the day to and moving forward the Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board day performance of the business unit.
The UK Bus division is by the Chairman is not the same as the leadership required headed by a managing director, who reports to the Group Chief from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards decisions Executive and is supported by a small team of senior into actions and galvanise the whole enterprise.
The Group Chief management and other specialists.
The division is divided into a Executive has day-to-day responsibility for all business of the number of principal operating units, each headed by a managing Group and carries out the decisions of the Board.
director who reports to the managing director of UK Bus.
The The directors biographies appear on page 22 of this Annual managing director of UK Bus and the other UK Bus directors Report and illustrate the directors range of experience, which meet regularly.
Coach USA is presently headed by the Group ensures an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
Coach USAs executive management board non-executive directors bring an independent viewpoint and comprises the Group Chief Executive and other senior create an overall balance.
Following the appointment of Robert management based in North America.
The division comprises Speirs as Chairman, Russell Walls became the senior independent several regions, each headed by a regional vice-president who non-executive director.
reports to the Group Chief Executive.
The Overseas Bus division is headed by a chairman and until June 2003, comprised two The executive and non-executive directors have a complementary principal business units, each of which was headed by a range of financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that managing director who is responsible for the performance of the ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the decisionbusiness unit.
Following the disposal of Citybus in June 2003, making process.
the Overseas Bus division consists only of the New Zealand operations.
The Group Chief Executive generally attends the All directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Board and management meetings of the principal Overseas Bus company secretary and may take independent legal or other operations.
A Rail board, comprising one executive director and professional advice at the Groups expense where it is considered other senior management, oversees the development of the Groups rail business.
At South West Trains, an executive necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as directors.
All directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the director is the chairman and this role is separate from the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and all managing director who is responsible for the performance of the directors are required to stand for re-election by shareholders business unit.
They are supported on the South West Trains every three years.
Each director receives induction training on board by a member of Group management and three non- 26 Corporate governance 2003 General consulting For other consulting work, the Group executive directors.
Virgin Rail Group is headed by a chief will select an advisor after taking account of the skills and executive and Board meetings are attended by one Stagecoach experience required and the expected cost of the work.
The executive director and one other Stagecoach representative.
Group uses a range of advisors for general consulting, including Stagecoach is involved in all key decisions at Virgin Rail Group.
the auditors where they are best suited to the work being Road King Board meetings are also attended by at least one undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general Group executive, and the Chairman of Overseas Bus.
consulting when both the Group and the auditors are satisfied The Group holds periodic meetings with its principal shareholders that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to and welcomes all shareholders to its AGM and EGMs.
Formal the audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
notice of the 2003 AGM is enclosed within this annual report.
Remuneration Committee Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee during the year comprised five The Audit Committee comprises five non-executive directors and non-executive directors, Robert Speirs Chairman until 1 May at the present time, its members are Russell Walls Chairman, 2003, Russell Walls, Iain Duffin Chairman from 1 May 2003, Janet Morgan, Robert Speirs, Ewan Brown and Iain Duffin.
Of the Janet Morgan and Ann Gloag.
Ann Gloag is no longer a member members of the Audit Committee, the Chairman and one other of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met two times are former Finance Directors of FTSE 100 companies and a third during the year.
It is responsible for reviewing the scale and member is currently the chairman of an audit committee of structure of the remuneration of the executive directors and the another FTSE 100 company.
The Committee therefore has deep terms of their service contracts and is also responsible for financial expertise and is appropriately qualified to undertake its approving grants of and changes to the companys performanceduties in an effective manner.
related incentive schemes and executive share option schemes.
The Audit Committee met twice during the year and has met a Exercise of options, which is always subject to the rules of the further three times in May and June 2003.
It receives reports schemes, is approved by a Committee of the main Board.
from many of the Groups business functions including the risk assurance function.
It also receives reports from the external Nominations Committee auditors.
It considers the scope and results of the audit, the The Nominations Committee currently comprises two noninterim and annual accounts and the accounting and internal executive directors, Robert Speirs and Ewan Brown and one control systems in place throughout the Group.
The Audit executive director, Brian Souter.
The Committee may also Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and include, by invitation on an ad hoc basis, the other non-executive objectivity of the external auditors.
Subject to the annual directors, as necessary.
The purpose of the Committee is to appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit propose to the Board any new executive director appointments.
Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship Final appointments are the responsibility of the whole Board.
The between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: Committee did not meet during the year because there were no the consideration of audit fees that should be paid as well as new or proposed appointments to the Board.
The changes to the any other fees which are payable to auditors or affiliated firms Chairman and Group Chief Executive roles in July 2002 were in respect of non-audit activities: dealt with by the Board as a whole.
the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: Health, Safety and Environmental Committee the nature and scope of the external audit and the The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired arrangements which have been made to ensure co-ordination by a non-executive director Janet Morgan, and also comprises where more than one audit firm or offices of the same firm Graham Eccles.
It was established to discuss health, safety and are involved: and environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting the Board on these matters.
It has access to internal safety standards.
executives and also external consultants.
Our procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: Directors remuneration Audit related services These are services that the auditors The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board for ensuring that the directors remuneration is appropriate must undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such services include formalities relating to attract, motivate and retain executive directors of the quality to bank financing, regulatory reports, and certain shareholder needed to run the Groups business successfully.
The auditors would generally provide all such believes that remuneration packages should contain significant performance-related elements.
Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor established to align incentives with the interests of shareholders, for each specific piece of tax consulting work who has the using an appropriate balance of longand short-term targets.
most appropriate skills and experience for the work required.
These include not only traditional financial indicators but also The Group uses a range of advisors for tax consulting, personal targets, successful investment, innovation, staff including the auditors where they are best suited to the work development, customer satisfaction, achievement of regulatory being undertaken.
requirements, including health and safety and environmental 27 Corporate governance 2003 targets.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Board considers whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks Committee complies with the principles and provisions of the that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated by the Group.
Combined Code and this is detailed in the remuneration report The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout laid out on pages 30 to 34. the businesses during the year ended 30 April 2003.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups Relations with shareholders internal control environment and such reviews are supported on The Board considers communications with shareholders, whether an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The Board large or small, external or employee, to be extremely important.
is satisfied that the processes are in place to ensure that risks are The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major mitigated to an acceptable level.
institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the financial press.
Annual meetings are held with employee The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control and risk management processes, while shareholder representatives through the ESOP and QUEST trustee recognising that it retains ultimate responsibility for these.
Board believes that it is important that these processes remain The programme of investor relations includes presentations in rooted throughout the business and the managing director of London of the full year and interim results and meetings with each operating unit is responsible for the internal control institutional investors in the UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst framework within that unit.
The Audit Committee meets with feedback is sought after presentations to ensure key strategies, representatives of operating units because this is one way for an market trends and actions being taken are being effectively independent appraisal of risk management to be obtained.
communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
During the Self assessment of risk conducted by the directors and senior year written responses are given to letters or e-mail received from management is ongoing and has been considered at several levels shareholders and all shareholders receive interim and annual reports with each division maintaining a separate risk profile.
Risks are or the summary annual report.
Each shareholder is given the evaluated within broad categories: external, reputation, strategic opportunity to elect which document they require and this allows and competitive, legal and regulatory, business change, people, our reporting to be more focused towards the needs of individual financial performance and operational performance.
Information is also available on the company website www.
Private and institutional shareholders The Group Risk Assurance function is utilised in monitoring risk are welcome to attend and participate at the AGM and any EGMs.
management processes to determine whether internal controls The Group aims to ensure that the chairmen of the Audit, operational, compliance and financial are effectively designed Remuneration, Nominations and Health, Safety and Environmental and properly implemented.
A risk-based approach is applied to Committees are available at the AGM to answer questions.
The the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The monitoring AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the process also forms the basis for continually improving the risk Chairman and other directors on a variety of topics and further management process in the context of the Groups overall information is provided at the AGM on all the Groups principal goals.
At each AGM, the Chairman reports details of all Group Risk Assurance plans and reports are reviewed by the proxy votes lodged for each resolution after each show of hands.
Audit Committee together with external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are recommended by Accountability and audit the external auditors.
The Board endeavours, in all its communications with shareholders, to present a balanced and understandable Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Rail Group at present, but the Group The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an maintains an overview of the business risk management through integral part of business and unacceptable levels of risk are representation on the Board and audit committee.
Stagecoach avoided or reduced and, in some cases, transferred to third management representatives meet with representatives of Virgin parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and manage Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture follows appropriate acceptable levels of risk.
The directors acknowledge their risk management procedures.
responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control.
Although the system can provide Road King Infrastructure has its own audit committee and only reasonable and not absolute assurance of material internal audit function.
misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to The Groups Audit Committee review the financial statements of provide the directors with reasonable assurance that any risks Virgin Rail Group and Road King Infrastructure together with the or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with minutes, external audit presentations, management presentations appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of and internal audit presentations from the respective audit risk review and certification by the business heads of each committee meetings of these companies.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Internal control Each identified business risk is assessed for its probability of The wider process described above, together with the key occurrence and its severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the procedures noted below, enables the directors and senior group 28 Corporate governance 2003 a commitment to best practice in external reporting.
managers to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness a competition compliance programme which has been of the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
approved by the Board and which is subject to regular The key procedures, which the directors have established, are as monitoring.
follows: an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of Auditors out-turn, identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets Following the conversion of our auditors, are presented to a panel of the executive directors and senior , to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP group managers by each business units management team, from 1 January 2003,  resigned as before being approved by the Board prior to the auditors and the directors appointed its successor, commencement of the financial year.
A resolution to re-appoint reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing  LLP as auditors to the Company, at profit and loss, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance remuneration to be fixed by the directors, will be proposed at indicators and operating ratios.
All results are monitored this years Annual General Meeting.
throughout the year by the Group executives.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business performance during their period in office, recommend processes and business controls, reporting directly to the Audit re-appointment.
The audit fees of 0.7 million for Committee.
 LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.2m third party reviews commissioned by the Group of areas were discussed by the Audit Committee and considered where significant inherent risks have been identified, such as appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The Committee strategy and competition policy.
believes the level of non-audit services does not impair the a decentralised organisation structure with clearly defined objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit limits of responsibility and authority to promote effective and obtained from using professional advisors who have a good efficient operations.
understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting firms control over the activities of joint ventures and associated have been used where the Group recognises them as having undertakings through Stagecoach representation on the boards particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of of the entities together with regular contact between interest for the auditors are identified.
Stagecoach management and the management of the relevant entities.
Compliance with the Combined Code a performance management appraisal system is in place which The Group has complied with the provisions of the Code covers over 100 of the Groups senior management and is throughout the financial year except that one director who was based on agreed financial and other performance objectives, not independent of management was a member of the many of which incorporate identifying and managing risk.
Remuneration Committee during the year.
The Remuneration significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank Committee now comprises four independent non-executive balances are reviewed on a daily basis, cash flows are directors and the director who was not independent is no longer compared to budget on a four-weekly basis and any material a member.
variances between earnings and expected cash flows are Pension schemes investigated.
The assets of the Groups pension schemes are totally separate regular Board reporting on specific matters including pensions, from the assets of the Group and are invested with independent insurance, treasury management, foreign exchange, interest fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury scheme of whom five are employee representatives nominated management policies and procedures.
by the members on a regional basis.
The other trustees include defined capital expenditure and other investment approval executive directors and senior Group and UK Bus executives.
The procedures, including due diligence requirements where Company Secretary, who is an elected member of the NAPFs material businesses are being acquired or divested.
Investment Council, and who in 1998 was also re-elected for a each operating unit maintains controls and procedures six year term to the 16-member board of the industry-wide appropriate to the business.
It is a key requirement of the Railways Pension Scheme, acts as chairman of the trustees of the procedures that a written certificate is provided annually by principal UK scheme.
The auditors and actuaries of the principal the managing director and financial manager of each business UK pension schemes are both independent of the Group.
Similar confirming that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the arrangements are in place for the South West Trains, Island Line, system of internal control during the year.
As might be Sheffield Supertram and two Virgin Rail Group sections of the expected, a number of minor internal control weaknesses were Railways Pension Scheme.
 LLP does not identified by this procedure, all of which have been, or are conduct the external audit of any significant pension schemes in being, addressed.
None of the weaknesses have resulted in which the Group participates.
any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would  LLP provided internal audit services to require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part of the continuous the Railways Pension Scheme until 2002 when an in-house improvement of our risk management procedures.
internal audit function was fully established instead.
