Corporate Governance The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company The Board has established a number of standing Committees, in accordance with the Principles of Good Governance and each of which operates within its own defined terms of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined reference.
The four principal Committees, whose minutes Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules are circulated to and reviewed by the full Board, are Audit, of the U. K. Listing Authority the Combined Code.
Remuneration, Nomination and Banking and Finance.
In addition, there is an advisory panel on risk management Throughout the year to 27 April 2003 the Company has which is referred to as the Risk Committee.
complied in all respects with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The members of each of the principal Committees are named on page 14.
The role of the Audit Committee is explained on A Directors page 22 and that of the Remuneration Committee on page 16.
The Board of Directors leads and controls the Company.
The Information about the terms of Directors appointments is present Board comprises a balance of five Executive and three included on page 17.
The Nomination Committee, which Non-Executive Directors.
All the Non-Executive Directors meets only as and when required, comprises the Chairman, are independent with the Deputy Chairman, Len Cowburn, Chief Executive and all the Non-Executive Directors and makes regarded as the most senior.
Any Directors appointed by recommendations to the Board on all new appointments of the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the Directors.
It also advises on general Board composition.
All Directors are required to Banking and Finance Committee meets not less than twice a retire and submit themselves for re-election at least once year and makes recommendations to the Board regarding every three years.
The Risk Committee meets periodically, in advance of Board Meetings, and its function There is a clear division of responsibilities between the is described in Section D below.
Chairman, Leonard Steinberg and the Chief Executive, Bob Wiper.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the running B Directors remuneration of the Board.
He ensures that all Directors receive sufficient Particulars are given in the Remuneration Report set out on relevant information on financial, business and corporate pages 16 to 20.
This report contains a statement on policy issues in a timely manner prior to meetings and provides together with details of the remuneration of each Director, a conduit for Directors to make further enquiries where including incentive payments and the related performance necessary.
The Chief Executives responsibilities focus on criteria.
co-ordinating the Groups businesses and implementing its strategy.
C Relations with shareholders The Company encourages a dialogue with both its institutional All Directors are expected to bring independent judgement to and private investors and responds to all queries received.
bear and are able to take independent professional advice, The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with if necessary, at the Companys expense.
All Directors have analysts and institutional shareholders.
All shareholders access to the services of the Company Secretary.
The Company have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Secretary is appointed by, and responsible to, the Board as a Meeting at which all Directors and Chairmen of the principal whole and is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures Committees are introduced and are available for questions.
are followed and for compliance with applicable rules and Our website, which contains investor relations information, can regulations.
com and further shareholder information can be found at the end of the Annual Report.
The Board met six times during the year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its consideration.
It is D Accountability and Audit responsible for overall Group strategy, standards of conduct, 1 Financial reporting acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable expenditure projects and consideration of significant financing assessment of the Groups position and prospects through matters.
It reviews the strategic direction of individual trading detailed performance and financial reviews.
These appear in subsidiaries, including their codes of conduct, annual budgets, the Chairmans Statement on pages 1 to 4, together with progress towards achievement of these budgets and capital the Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 5 to 11, expenditure programmes.
It considers employee issues and and the Directors Report on page 15.
It also ensures thatall Directors receive of the Directors for the FinancialStatements are described appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently on page 25. as necessary and appropriate.
2003 Annual Report and Accounts 21 Corporate Governance continued 2 Internal controls its authority and duties.
It meets three times a year.
Internal and external auditors attend by invitation.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Throughout the year The Committee provides the mechanism by which both the under review and up to the date of this report, the Board internal audit function and the Groups external Auditors has continued to encourage and oversee the establishment report to the Non-Executive Directors and it monitors of a risk-based approach to internal controls in order to and reviews the appointment, services provided by and ensure proper identification, evaluation and management independence of, the Groups external Auditors.
The Auditors of significant risks.
The Board considers that it maintains a are also required to confirm to the Audit Committee that sound system to safeguard shareholders investments and in their professional judgement they are independent with the Groups assets and that it operates procedures meeting respect to the Group audit.
The Directors use a range of the requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal providers as they consider appropriate for other services control.
The Board conducted its most recent review of the such as taxation advisory work or general consulting.
effectiveness of internal controls in April 2003, noting that these are designed to manage, not eliminate, risk and that Set out below is an analysis of the non-audit services such a system can provide only reasonable but not absolute provided by  LLP during the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
current year: Some key features of the internal control system are: 2003 2002 000 000 i a Group internal audit department, together with divisional security and compliance departments, all of Tax 206 150 whom report routinely to the Audit Committee: Acquisitions and due diligence 27 75 Sundry 17 58 ii Group procedures and policies, including manuals detailing principal operational, accounting and other policies: E Corporate Social Responsibility The Group promotes Corporate Social Responsibility, iii a clearly-defined organisational structure and well recognising its importance to all our stakeholders, whether established financial reporting and control systems: they are customers, employees, shareholders or suppliers.
Tangible evidence of this is our inclusion in the London Stock iv preparation of comprehensive annual budgets that Exchanges FTSE4Good index where we must pass a formal are reviewed and approved by the Board: and screening process in accordance with published requirements.
The Board has issued a formal statement on corporate v detailed monthly management accounts, with review principles and considers that itreceives adequate information of variances against both budget and prior years.
and has effective systems in place to take regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical issues, Risk management including identifying and assessing both the risks and Strategic reviews are undertaken by the Board.
It is the responsibility of each division Committee directs risk management via the internal audit within the Group to comply with these corporate principles function on a planned basis to ensure that a system is in by implementing initiatives to meet their own exposures and place for raising and dealing with matters reported by responsibilities.
Implementation of the principles is monitored management.
The risks identified are assigned to those by the Company.
accountable: the mechanisms for controlling those risks are documented and actions are taken to identify and Environment implement measures to further reduce and or eliminate The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental those risks.
Monitoring of controls and adherence to policies laws as an important part of its responsible approach to the is undertaken at all levels.
Senior managers regularly visit environment.
We continue to implement  throughout the Group and review with local aware business practices adopting wherever possible an managers both the financial and business issues affecting environmentally responsible attitude in the fulfilment of our the Groups operations.
Energy and water conservation and recycling of waste material continue to be a central focus 3 Audit Committee and Auditors where economically practical.
The Audit Committee, comprising all the Non-Executive Directors, has specific terms of reference which deal with 22 Stanley Leisure plc Corporate Governance continued Communities and charities We recognise the potential impact of our businesses on society generally and take several positive actions in this regard.
We follow industry and trade association codes of conduct as they apply to our businesses.
The gaming division regularly donates to the Gambling Industry Charitable Trust, whose aims are to research and limit problem gambling.
Additionally support is given to Salford University to enable it to operate The Centre of Gambling Studies.
The betting division, through the medium of the Association of British Bookmakers, actively supports the efforts of GamCare in providing an operation that helps and informs both individuals and their families who have issues related to problem gambling.
The Board believes that the Group and its employees benefit from making an appropriate contribution to the communities in which they operate and it will continue to encourage this.
We have a long tradition of supporting a variety of local and national charities.
Employees Our employees are important to us and we endeavour to foster a working environment that reflects this.
We make specific arrangements, including presentations and newsletters, to ensure they are kept informed of the Groups performance, activities and future plans.
We also promote employee ownership through our various share option schemes.
The Group is committed to a policy of equal opportunity in matters relating to employment, training and career development of employees and is opposed to any form of less favourable treatment afforded on the grounds of, for example, disability, gender, race or religion.
Health and Safety We acknowledge that the health, safety and welfare at work of all of the Groups employees, customers and contractors is a major responsibility of management.
Comprehensive policies embracing health and safety matters with the objective of ensuring that procedures conform to current best practice are in place.
Each division has adopted its own procedures to meet the Groups objectives and these continue to be reviewed and updated.
Health and safety reports are considered by the Risk Committee and divisional management.
We organise health and safety training to the Institute of Occupational Healths IOSH Managing Safety standard.
All development, refurbishment and new-build projects incorporate health, safety and environmental assessments.
Following an audit of our businesses for air quality a number of our casinos have now been upgraded to meet the standard for ventilated premises under the Public Places Charter.
Arrangements are also being put into place throughout the Group to meet the requirements of Regulation 4 Duty to manage asbestos in non-domestic premises of the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations 2002.
