Corporate Governance The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance was published in July 2003 and applies for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Whilst this statement is the Boards final report by reference to the Combined Code issued by the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 the Combined Code, your Board has already introduced many of the provisions of the new Combined Code.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The company considers that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2003 with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Application of the Principles of Good Governance The Principles of Good Governance contained in the Combined Code were applied as follows: Directors The activities of the company are controlled by the Board which currently comprises two executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained in a broad range of commerce.
The Board meets quarterly to review current and projected performance and to determine strategic issues.
The Board has established Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees which are discussed below.
All Board and Committee meetings were fully attended during 2003.
The Board considers the following non-executive directors to be independent in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code: Mr R H Hunting, Mr G Montezemolo, Dr M J Peagram, Mr P J Welch and Mr P S Wood.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided between Mr A E Richmond-Watson who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman and Mr A Walker who has responsibility for the running of the companys business as Chief Executive.
In February 1998, following the acquisition of Holliday Chemical Holdings PLC, Dr M J Peagram, its former chairman, was appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman in recognition of his position as the senior non-executive director.
The directors receive in advance full information on all matters to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed quarterly review of performance prepared by the Chief Executive.
The Chairman receives the minutes of the Executive Committee comprised of the divisional Chief Executives, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and chaired by the Group Chief Executive which meets once a month and all directors receive a monthly trading summary and commentary.
The Nomination Committee which is chaired by Mr R H Hunting and whose members are identified on page 22 makes recommendations to the Board regarding all new Board appointments, considers succession planning and has responsibility for the induction and training of non-executive directors.
The Nominations Committee met twice during 2003.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three year terms and all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Directors aged over 70 are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Chairman periodically reviews the individual performance of each director.
Directors remuneration All matters relating to remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report, set out on pages 28 to 33.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and meetings take place following the announcement of interim and full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, and in particular private investors, at the companys Annual General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members are in attendance.
In particular, the chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions and the remits of the committees are available to shareholders.
The company makes use of its web site www.
com to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim and full year results, company announcements, share price and other investor information.
Corporate Governance continued Accountability and audit An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the financial statements and a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 34 and 35 respectively.
The report by the directors that the business is a going concern and a report on the approach to internal control are set out below.
The directors endeavour to make the annual report and financial statements as informative and understandable as possible.
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by Mr P J Welch and whose members are identified on page 22, has established a detailed remit regarding the application of financial reporting and internal control principles.
It meets periodically with the companys auditors to review the adequacy of the groups financial management, the internal controls and information systems.
The Audit Committees remit includes the review of the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors including the extent of non-audit services and fees payable to the auditors which is carried out and discussed with the auditors on a periodic basis.
With regard to seeking to ensure the independence and objectivity of the auditors, the Audit Committees policy is to avoid the auditors providing services in areas which may create or be perceived to create a conflict of interest.
Accordingly, other than in circumstances where time constraints render it impractical or assignments are of a minor nature, the auditors are not invited to tender or propose for services of the following nature: corporate finance, legal, information technology and systems, recruitment or remuneration, accounting, internal audit or control, acquisition due diligence, valuations or appraisals, actuarial or general business consulting.
In addition the auditors have been requested not to provide services to executive directors or senior executives and non-executive directors are required to disclose any relationship they have with the auditors.
The current auditors were appointed in 2002 and details of audit and non-audit fees paid to them in 2003 are set out in note 2.
Non-audit fees principally relate to taxation advice.
The Audit Committee met formally twice during 2003 and the Chairman of the Audit Committee had regular dialogue with the auditors during the course of the year.
Internal control The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of internal control and sets appropriate policies to ensure that the Combined Code requirements on internal control are met.
The system of internal control deployed within the group is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated.
The internal control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about meeting such business objectives or against material misstatement or loss.
A process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks faced by the group was developed and fully implemented in 2000.
This has since been built upon so as to embed further the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness of the relevant processes and information.
The process has operated throughout 2003 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
During 2003, a number of pilot projects were undertaken to implement the recommendations arising from a study conducted by an external consultant.
As a result of this work, the process has been further strengthened and will continue to be deployed throughout the group.
The system is applied at all subsidiaries, and a bottom up risk profile is created by evaluating the information at business, divisional and group level.
Senior managers with cross-functional responsibilities participate in the risk management process to identify and evaluate key risks.
The process relies on senior managers detailed knowledge and understanding of key internal and external risks facing their business.
This is based on formal management information and reporting together with interaction with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other relevant parties.
Where a significant risk is identified, its causes, potential business impact and the planned risk control measures are recorded.
The process requires that the risk assessment is reviewed at least twice per year during a management meeting, with any significant changes reported to a central data base.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this process primarily relate to matters of an operational nature.
The most significant issues impacting the group in 2003 are highlighted in the Chairmans statement and the divisional reports.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, by the nature of the groups business, always of the utmost concern and the safety, health and environment report on pages 18 to 21 reviews the groups performance in this connection in 2003.
A number of other issues which may impact levels of reported profits in the future have been identified from the process which arise from external influences.
These include the proposed EU REACH regulation and the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards in 2005.
Evaluation of the potential impact of such matters is ongoing and they will require careful management.
26 27 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2003 The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the internal control system include the following: A review of the external audit work plan: Consideration of reports from management and external parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: Quarterly review of safety, health and environmental performance: Discussion with management of the actions taken on any possible problem areas for the business identified by Board members or in the audit report: Consideration of a consolidated risk management report setting out the main conclusions from the internal control process: In addition, the Board: Receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee meetings: Considers the role of the group insurance programme: Receives regular written and oral reports from management on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk management matters.
In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
Social, environmental and ethical matters In October 2001 the Association of British Insurers ABI published guidelines on socially responsible investment which take the form of disclosure principles that institutional investors would expect to see in the annual report of listed companies.
These guidelines require statements on the extent to which social, ethical and environmental matters are taken into account by the Board and identified, assessed, managed and monitored particularly in relation to the risks and opportunities they present to the value of the company.
Environmental matters The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with health and safety protection is central to the companys business.
A separate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the annual report for a number of years and the first of a series of stand-alone SHE reports was published in August 2000.
The SHE statement on page 18 to 21 incorporates the ABI guidelines.
Social and ethical matters The Board does not regard social and ethical matters as a distinct subject for special review.
The companys system of internal control does, however, by virtue of its approach to risk identification, cover areas which encompass social and ethical matters.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities in which the groups businesses operate and is supportive of local initiatives by management.
The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated with social and ethical issues and has a group wide code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities.
The purpose of this code is to ensure that the groups employees have a clear understanding of the principles that are important in these areas when conducting the groups business.
