Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 corporate governance Combined Code The Board usually meets eight times The Board Committees The Committee on Corporate each year.
At least one meeting takes The Board has a formal schedule of Governance issued the Combined place at an operating subsidiary or matters reserved to it for decision, but Code the Code in June 1998. joint venture company.
Ten Board also delegates specific responsibilities The Listing Rules of the Financial meetings were held during the year to Board Committees, all of which Services Authority require a narrative and the directors overall rate of have written terms of reference.
statement of how the Company attendance was 92%.
The current Board Committee applies the principles of the Code, structure is described below.
and a statement as to whether the All substantive agenda items have Company has complied with the comprehensive briefing papers which Chairmans Committee provisions of the Code throughout the are circulated five days before the The Chairmans Committee comprises accounting period, giving reasons for meeting.
The Board reviews regularly the Chairman, the other non-executive any non-compliance.
The paragraphs the strategy of the Group and at most directors and the Chief Executive, below, together with the Directors Board meetings it reviews the strategy under the chairmanship of the Remuneration Report on pages of one of the major units.
It meets before each 33 to 40, describe how the Company Board meeting as required, and applies the principles and complies During the year, the Board carried out provides an opportunity for the with the provisions of the Code.
an evaluation of the effectiveness of Chairman and Chief Executive to the Board and the Board Committees.
brief and obtain the views of the The Board The evaluation covered issues such as non-executive directors.
The Board currently comprises Board and Committee composition, the Chairman which is a nonarrangements for and content of The Committee met eight times during executive position, four executive meetings, access to information, the year and the members overall directors and six other non-executive administrative procedures, director rate of attendance was 98%.
The non-executive directors training and visits to operating sites.
have a wide range of skills, The results of the evaluation were Audit Committee experience and outside business considered by the Board and The Audit Committee comprises the interests.
The roles of Chairman and recommendations were made and Chairman and all the non-executive Chief Executive are separated and implemented.
directors except Larry Pillard, under clearly defined.
The Chairman is the chairmanship of Keith Hopkins.
responsible for the working of the Appropriate training and briefing Following the Annual General Meeting Board and the Chief Executive for is available to all directors on on 31 July 2003 2003 AGM, Keith the running of the business and the appointment to the Board, taking into Hopkins will retire as Chairman of the implementation of Board strategy account their individual qualifications Committee and will be succeeded by and policy.
and experience, and also on an Richard Delbridge.
Keith Hopkins will ongoing basis as required to meet continue to serve as a member of the The Board considers the Chairman their individual needs.
Committee, subject to his re-election and all the non-executive directors to as a director at the 2003 AGM.
be independent of management, with The directors have access to the the exception of Carole Piwnica and advice and services of the Company The Committee provides a facility for Larry Pillard.
Carole Piwnica is a Secretary who is responsible for discussing with the Groups external former Chairman of Amylum Group advising the Board on procedures auditors their report on the annual and is paid by the Group for and applicable rules and regulations.
accounts, reviewing the scope and consultancy services which she The Company Secretary acts as results of the internal audit work performs in addition to her duties as Secretary for all the Board Committees.
programme and considering any other a non-executive director.
Details of There is also a procedure in place matters which might have a financial the terms of her consultancy whereby, in the furtherance of their impact on the Company.
This includes agreement are given in the Directors duties, directors can obtain reviewing the Groups system of Remuneration Report on page 36. independent professional advice at internal control and the process Larry Pillard is a former executive the Companys expense.
for evaluating and monitoring risk.
director of the Company he ceased The Committee also reviews the to be Chief Executive on 31 December The Companys Articles require the objectivity of the external auditors, 2002.
He has extensive knowledge re-election of one-third of the Board including the level of non-audit and experience of the starch industry or the nearest whole number below services supplied, and ensures both in the US and Europe and was one-third at each Annual General that there is an appropriate asked to serve as a non-executive Meeting.
Where this would result in audit relationship see Auditor director so that his considerable a director serving for more than three Independence on page 32. knowledge and expertise would years without re-election, the directors continue to be available to the Board.
have agreed to submit themselves for re-election.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 The Committee met three times during It also makes recommendations to the The processes described below, the year with the Chief Executive, Board on the processes for the which accord with the guidance Group Finance Director, Head of appointment of the Chairman of the Internal Control: Guidance for Internal Audit and other members Board, the Boards composition and Directors on the Combined Code of the senior management team, balance, the membership of the Board issued by the Institute of Chartered together with the external auditors, Committees and material changes in Accountants in England and Wales in attendance.
Non-executive the responsibilities of Board Members.
the Turnbull guidance, have been directors who are not members of the in place throughout the year and up Committee are also invited to attend During the year, with the help of to the date of this Annual Report.
meetings to provide advice as external recruitment consultants, These processes are reviewed on required.
The Committee meets the Committee selected and made an ongoing basis by the Board privately with the external auditors recommendations to the Board for and the Audit Committee.
and the Head of Internal Audit at least the appointment of a new Chief once a year.
Executive and Chief Operating Officer.
The Group operates a management Both recommendations were system that recognises the The members overall rate of approved by the Board.
appropriate balance of risk and attendance at Committee meetings reward as a key part of the enterprise.
The Committee met nine times during The system emphasises risk the year and the members overall management as a responsibility Remuneration Committee rate of attendance was 93%.
of line executives, not only of staff The Remuneration Committee specialists.
The process is flexible comprises the Chairman and all the Shareholder Communications and ongoing and is supported by a non-executive directors except Larry The Chief Executive and Group formal procedure for identifying and Pillard under the chairmanship of Finance Director, supported by evaluating major business risks facing Allen Yurko.
It meets as required, the Chairman, maintain a regular the Group.
Under this procedure, usually before each Board meeting.
programme of visits and presentations senior executive management to major institutional shareholders.
confirms to the Chief Executive and The Committee makes Group Finance Director, at least twice recommendations to the Board on Some 250 shareholders normally a year, that these risks are being executive directors remuneration attend the Annual General Meeting managed appropriately within their policy and specifically approves the and are invited to ask questions and operations and controls have been remuneration and other detailed terms meet informally with the directors after examined and are effective.
of service, including the terms upon the formal proceedings have ended.
which such service is terminated, The Chief Executive requires his of the executive directors and the The Company aims to present senior managers to maintain regular Company Secretary.
The Committee a balanced and understandable contact with him and he also receives also approves the salary and benefits assessment in all its reports to comprehensive reports monthly from of members of the Executive the public and to regulators.
Key each major business group.
Committee and employees who announcements and other information report directly to the Chief Executive.
may be found on the Companys The Group has an internal audit website at www.
department that supports the Board During the year, the Committee met and the Audit Committee in ten times and the members overall Internal Control maintaining procedures through a rate of attendance was 98%.
The Board of Directors has overall programme of regular reviews that responsibility for the Groups system focus on key aspects of the business.
The Directors Remuneration Report of internal control and for reviewing The Audit Committee receives regular on pages 33 to 40 gives more its effectiveness.
Such a system is reports on the progress and work of information on the Companys designed to manage rather than the internal audit department.
It also executive remuneration policy and eliminate risk, and can only provide receives reports from the Groups practice, and on the working of reasonable and not absolute external auditors on the effectiveness the Committee.
assurance against material of the system of internal control and misstatement or loss.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee The Audit Committee, on behalf of An Executive Committee comprises comprises the Chairman, the other the Board, reviews the effectiveness the executive directors, the Company non-executive directors and the Chief of the system of internal control at Secretary and other senior Group Executive under the chairmanship of least annually and has confirmed to managers.
It is chaired by the Chief the Chairman.
It meets periodically the Board that this review has been Executive and meets at least nine as required.
carried out twice during the year to times during the year.
Its members 31 March 2003 and up to the date are appointed by the Chief Executive The Committee considers and of this Annual Report.
This review to assist him in managing the recommends to the Board candidates covered financial, operational and activities of the Group.
for appointment as executive and compliance controls and risk non-executive directors and as management procedures.
com 31 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 corporate governance The Chief Executive and the Group Auditor Independence Developments in Corporate Finance Director submit written As stated in last years Annual Report, Governance reports to each Board meeting the Board has adopted a policy that The Board will continue to review its which include consideration of excludes the Groups external auditors existing arrangements in light of the changing threats and opportunities from assignments that are not closely recommendations made in Derek within the business.
related to the audit function unless the Higgs report on Review of the role Audit Committee determine otherwise.
and effectiveness of non-executive The standard Board review of directors, Sir Robert Smiths report investments and disposals includes The Audit Committee has agreed on Audit Committees: Combined identification of major risks that could a schedule which categorises such Code guidance, and, upon its affect the outcome of each project, services between: publication in final form, the new with a sensitivity analysis.
those which the external auditors Formal annual reports and are permitted to provide: presentations are received by the those which the external auditors Board on certain areas of special risk.
are not permitted to provide: and These include insurance, treasury those for which the approval of the management, commodity trading, Audit Committee is required before pensions management, safety and the external auditors are permitted environmental issues.
There is a comprehensive annual The schedule, which has been issued planning and financial reporting by the Group Finance Director to all system comparing results with Group companies, is reviewed by the plan and the previous year on a Audit Committee on an ongoing basis.
Revised forecasts for the year are produced at least Details of the amounts paid to the quarterly.
Reports include a monthly external auditors for audit, auditcash flow statement projected for related work and non-audit work is 15 months.
Additionally, quarterly given in note 4 to the financial financial reviews of the major statements on page 53. operating units are undertaken.
Compliance with the Provisions The Company has defined procedures of the Code for the authorisation of capital The Company has complied expenditure and investment, granting throughout the year with the of guarantees, trading and hedging of provisions of the Code, with the currencies and commodities and use following exceptions: of treasury products.
Larry Pillards bonus for the The Groups businesses operate year ended 31 March 2003 is under mandatory written procedures pensionable, in accordance with to provide an appropriate control usual North American practice.
The Group Policies and The Board does not consider it Procedures set out the Groups necessary to identify a single commitment to competence, integrity senior non-executive director, and ethical values.
Each year, the in addition to the Chairman, to Groups businesses are required whom concerns may be conveyed.
formally to confirm that they are in The Chairmen of the Remuneration compliance with these policies and and Audit Committees can be the results of this review are reported consulted on any matters where to the Audit Committee.
investors feel an approach to the Chairman or Chief Executive would be inappropriate.
Carole Piwnica is a member of the Remuneration Committee and, consequently, it does not exclusively comprise independent non-executive directors.
