Corporate governance Part one The board practises good corporate governance and supports the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The board has decided to report on how it has applied the Combined Code rather than delay reporting until next year, when full adoption of the Combined Code is mandatory.
The company has applied the principles of the Combined Code as follows: The board The board comprises the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, as well as five independent non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important independent perspective to board decision making.
Tony Cowling chairs the board and Mike Kirkham is Chief Executive.
The board has agreed their respective roles and responsibilities, to ensure they are clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place.
Rob Rowley acts as the senior independent non-executive director.
Biographical information on the board directors is given on page 65.
The board is accountable to shareholders for the groups business operations and affairs.
It participates in the establishment of the groups strategy and oversees its implementation.
The board is responsible for monitoring the groups financial and operational performance and appropriate risk management.
In addition, it ensures that appropriate corporate governance procedures are in place to protect the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors to consider their views.
They constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy at meetings specifically set up for the purpose, which are attended by all board members.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board that includes, inter alia, the approval of long term objectives and commercial strategy, financial statements, major changes to the groups corporate structure, major acquisitions and disposals, dividend payments, expenditure authority levels and treasury and risk management procedures.
The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held during 2003 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Board meetings Committee meetings Regular Ad hoc Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings in year 9733 6 Executive directors Tony Cowling 9 7 n a 3 n a Mike Kirkham 8 7 n a 2 n a 1 William Lipner 42 n a n a n a David Lowden 8 7 n a n a n a Non-executive directors Stephan Buck 9733 6 Neil Cross 9633 6 Rob Rowley 9723 6 Rmy Sautter 8 6 n a 2 5 2 Sharon Studer 2110 n a 1 appointed on 17 July 2003 2 appointed on 12 November 2003 Independent non-executive directors The board has determined that all of its non-executive directors are independent.
Stephan Buck has been a member of the board for more than nine years and had until 6 April 2003 a consultancy contract for services provided to the company.
These factors do not conform to the criteria given in the Combined Code to assist boards in determining whether a director is independent.
As allowed by the Combined Code, however, the board has determined that, in its opinion, Stephan Buck is independent.
The board believes that he is independent both in opinion and judgement and that he demonstrates this at board meetings, where he actively scrutinises the companys performance.
Furthermore, his extensive knowledge of the company and market information industry is of great benefit to board and committee discussions.
the sixth sense of business 69 The terms and conditions of appointment for each of the non-executive directors are highlighted in the remuneration report.
Information and professional development The group has a formal induction programme for newly appointed directors to meet key personnel and, on request, major shareholders.
On an on-going basis, regular presentations and site visits are given to board members to keep them up-to-date with the groups activities.
During the year, some directors attended tailored training programmes, specific to their individual needs and such programmes are available to all board members.
The board is also regularly briefed on matters affecting the groups activities, such as significant industry developments, as well as changes to the legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates.
Reporting is designed to ensure that management submits all information relevant to board decisions, to board members, in a timely manner prior to each board meeting.
There is an agreed procedure whereby all board members may obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties.
Such advice was not sought by any director during 2003.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Performance evaluation Board and committee evaluations were carried out for the first time in 2003 and will be held annually in future.
Non-executive director evaluations took the form of questionnaires and interviews conducted by the Chairman, with the Chairmans review led by the nonexecutive directors.
This is followed up by a review of board performance involving all directors.
Retirement by rotation In accordance with the companys articles of association, executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves for re-election every three years and non-executive directors every two years.
Board committees The board has three committees to assist in fulfilling its duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and a remuneration committee.
Terms of reference for each of these committees have been reviewed and approved by the board to take account of the Combined Code.
They are posted on the companys website and hard copies are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Audit committee The audit committee consists of independent non-executive directors, one of whom has recent and relevant financial experience and is chaired by Neil Cross.
Its primary responsibilities include monitoring internal control and risk management systems, approving the groups accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before their submission to the board and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit, as well as the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors.
During the year, the committee reviewed internal business and internal control reports, together with external audit reports.
The external auditor attended all audit committee meetings and met separately with the committees chairman.
The committee has adopted a formal policy for the supply of non-audit services provided by its external auditors.
Its aim is to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is not compromised whilst, at the same time, allowing the company to benefit from their expertise where it is needed.
The policy provides that proposals for all non-audit work carried out by the companys external auditors, incurring fees of over 50,000, require the approval of the audit committee.
All such proposals need to be accompanied by a written note to the committee, specifying why the work would not compromise the external auditors independence and objectivity and stating why the external auditors are being recommended for the work.
In addition, the policy provides that all other non-audit work carried out for the group by the companys external auditors, which incurs fees of less than 50,000, be reported to the board on a regular basis.
The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent powers of investigation and access to information.
No such advice was required in 2003.
Nomination committee The nomination committee comprises four independent non-executive directors, as well as the Chairman and Chief Executive.
It is chaired by Stephan Buck.
Its role is to review regularly the composition of the board, consider succession planning and nominate to the board, for approval, candidates to fill board vacancies.
Under the board appointment process, led by the nomination committee, it agrees a job specification that takes account of skills analysis of the existing board members.
Three specialised external consultancies are asked to tender for the business.
The chosen consultancy provides a list of potential candidates, from which the committee agrees a short list.
Interviews are held by members of the committee and the successful candidate is recommended for board approval.
Remuneration committee The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Combined Code in setting director remuneration, are included in the remuneration report on pages 73 to 79.
Financial controls and reporting The group operates a comprehensive system for financial reporting to the board, based on an annual budget and regular forecasts.
Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and the operational management team identifies any new business matters, key 70 TNS annual report and accounts 2003 risks facing the operating units and recent acquisitions in its reports.
The board approves budgetary expenditure in line with the groups corporate strategy.
Internal control The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an appropriate system of internal controls.
Day-to-day management of those controls is delegated to senior management of the relevant operating units.
Each year, all operations perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in place in their business, through an internal control questionnaire and report their findings to the group.
The group has a business review department which reviews financial, operational, and compliance controls in a number of key businesses.
Recommendations are reported to senior management and, ultimately, to the audit committee and board.
In 2003 six businesses were visited.
In December 2003, on the recommendation of the audit committee, the board agreed that the business review department should also act as the companys internal audit function and approved its terms of reference.
By these mechanisms the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2003, the key business, financial, operational and compliance risks facing the group were reviewed and prioritised.
The procedures in place to detect risks were addressed and the results were reported to the board.
The board believes that there are appropriate on-going procedures for identifying and evaluating any significant risks faced by the group.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered by this report and up to the date the annual report and accounts were approved.
The procedures comply with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
Code of conduct In 2003, the company established a code of conduct, which employees are required to follow.
It provides guidance and assistance on how employees should conduct business throughout the group, including how to manage relationships with the companys stakeholders.
Employees are required to report suspected breaches of the code of conduct to the Company Secretary who reports directly to the Chairman.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The group has in place a structured programme of communications with shareholders.
Executive directors and the Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with existing and prospective institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and North America, to provide background information regarding the group and to improve their understanding of the companys business and strategy.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, price-sensitive information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time.
Group results are announced twice a year and the presentations made to analysts are webcast on the groups website, www.
com, on the day of announcement.
In addition, both the Chairman and the senior non-executive director communicate with the companys brokers, to keep abreast of institutional shareholders attitudes to the company.
The Chairman and senior non-executive director offer annually to meet with major shareholders to review with them the performance and governance of the group.
All non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
Directors are also kept informed of shareholders views via brokers briefings and surveys of shareholders opinion.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet with and question the directors.
During 2003, 12 Regulatory News Service announcements were released, informing the market of acquisitions, financial results and board changes.
These announcements, together with current and back issues of annual and interim reports, are available on the groups website.
Pension funds The group operates a number of pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans for its employees throughout the world.
The pensions consist of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans.
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the groups employees are held separately from those of the group.
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee representatives and group board members, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995.
In the Netherlands, these are held by Stichting NIPO Pension funds.
In the US, the group operates a number of section 401K plans with independent providers, as well as the CMR LLC Union Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by Northwest Bank Minnesota, N. A, together with defined benefit plans sponsored by TNSMI CMR.
For employees of TNS NFO, there are three active retirement plans.
The first is the TNS NFO 401K plan with JP Morgan acting as the trustee.
The second is the NFO Research Profit Sharing Plan with KeyBank acting as the trustee, and the third is the NFO Research Pension Plan defined benefits with KeyBank acting as the trustee.
Details of pension commitments are given on pages 53 to 56. the sixth sense of business 71 Annual general meeting At least 20 working days notice of the annual general meeting is given to shareholders.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review during the meeting and recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
The Chairman, executive directors and chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees aim to attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
Part two During 2003, the group complied with all the provisions set out in section 1 of the combined code dated June 1998, except to the extent that the notice period in the service contract of Mike Kirkham, the Chief Executive, was two years, as explained in the remuneration report.
The board has embraced the provisions of the Combined Code introduced in July 2003, and has, since then, set about implementing its provisions, as illustrated above.
Accordingly, the board now believes that it has the procedures necessary to comply with the new provisions during 2004.
72 TNS annual report and accounts 2003
