TESCO PLC 7 corporate governance STATEMENT OF APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES OF THE Executive Committee The Board delegates day-to-day and COMBINED CODE The Group is committed to high standards business management control to the Executive Committee, of corporate governance.
This statement describes the which comprises the Executive Directors.
This meets formally manner in which the company has applied the principles every week and its decisions are communicated throughout set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
the Group on a regular basis.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group policy, the monitoring DIRECTORS AND THE BOARD The Board of Tesco PLC and performance of the business and reporting to the full comprises eight Executive Directors and six independent Board thereon.
The Chairman, Mr J A Gardiner, is an independent Non-executive Director who has a primary Nominations Committee Appointments to the Board for responsibility of running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Sir both Executive and Non-executive Directors are the Terry Leahy, has executive responsibilities for the operations, responsibility of the Nominations Committee which is chaired results and strategic development of the Group.
Clear divisions by Mr J A Gardiner and whose members are set out in the of accountability and responsibility exist and operate effectively table on page 11. for these positions.
In addition, Mr G F Pimlott is the senior As exemplied by the section on Directors and their Non-executive Director.
The Board ensures that no one interests within the Directors report on pages 5 and 6, the individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
companys Articles of Association ensure that on a rotational Since the year-end, the Board has announced its succession basis Directors resign every three years and, if they so desire plans for the retirement of Mr J A Gardiner in March 2004. and are eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The full Board meets at least ten times a year and annually devotes two days to a conference with senior Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, executives on longer-term planning, giving consideration composed entirely of Non-executive Directors, is chaired by both to the opportunities and risks of future strategy.
The members are set out in the table on page 11.
Board manages overall control of the Groups affairs by The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee, together the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
In so far with an explanation of how it applies the Directors remuneras corporate governance is concerned, these include the ation principles of the Combined Code, are set out in the approval of financial statements, major acquisitions and report of the Directors on remuneration on pages 12 to 21. disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury policies, risk management, Group governance policies and succession Audit Committee The Board has an Audit Committee, plans for senior executives.
chaired by Mr G F Pimlott and consisting entirely of NonTo enable the Board to make considered decisions, executive Directors, which meets a minimum of three times a written protocol exists and has been communicated to a year.
Membership of the Audit Committee is set out in senior managers ensuring that relevant information is made the table on page 11.
Its terms of reference are reviewed available to all Board members in advance of Board meetings.
annually and represent current best practice.
The Committees All Directors have access to the services of the Company primary responsibilities include monitoring the system of Secretary and may take independent professional advice at internal control throughout the Group, approving the Groups the companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
accounting policies and reviewing the interim and annual The need for Director training is regularly assessed financial statements before submission to the Board.
Committee will be undertaking an assessment of the Groups position in relation to the Financial Reporting Council GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES The following paragraphs guidelines for strengthening the Combined Code, issued describe the key governance structures operating in the recently as the Smith Report, although it is believed that Group under the overall direction of the Board.
the Group already comply substantially with the proposals.
The review will also cover the role and effectiveness of the Non-executive Directors as set out in the Higgs Report.
8 TESCO PLC corporate governance continued Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee ensures The capital investment programme is subject to formalised that the Board discharges its obligations to comply with all review procedures requiring key criteria to be met.
All major necessary laws and regulations.
It has established a schedule initiatives require business cases to be prepared, normally for the regular review of the Groups operational activities covering a minimum period of five years.
Post-investment to ensure compliance with accepted practices and policies.
appraisals are also carried out.
The Committee, comprising two Executive Directors and three members of senior management, normally meets four Risk management process At the highest level, the Board times a year.
considers strategic risk every time it meets.
The two-day Board Conference, referred to earlier, considers where future INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board opportunities and risks lie and helps shape our corporate has overall responsibility for internal control, including risk strategy going forward.
Accountabilities for managing management, and sets appropriate policies having regard to operational risks are clearly assigned to line management.
the objectives of the Group.
Executive management has the Internal controls have been developed over all risks in line responsibility for the identication, evaluation and management with the risk appetite determined by the Board and are of financial and non-financial risks and for the implementation subject to review.
Formal risk assessments are carried out and maintenance of control systems in accordance with the routinely throughout the business.
Procedures exist to ensure Boards policies.
that significant risks and control failures are escalated to The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed senior management and the Board, as necessary, on a daily, the effectiveness of the systems of internal control for the weekly and periodic basis.
accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements, although it should be understood Monitoring The monitoring of strategic and operational that such systems are designed to provide reasonable but risks are responsibilities of the Board and line managers not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board maintains the Key Risk Register and considers Internal control environment The Group operates an at their formal risk assessments whether the actions being objectives-driven approach aimed at satisfying its core taken in mitigation are sufficient.
purpose that translates into a rolling five-year business plan.
The Internal Audit function also operates on a risk-based The plan covers both revenue and capital expenditure and approach helping managers with their risk responsibilities and forms the basis of business plans for all our business entities.
From this the Board, together with monitoring regimes based  LLP, our external auditors, upon our Steering Wheel, agrees the annual revenue and contribute a further independent perspective on certain capital budgets.
aspects of the internal financial control system arising from The Steering Wheel is the term used to describe our their work.
Independence is strengthened by an agreement balanced scorecard approach, which we believe is the best to rotate audit partners every five years.
The engagement way to achieve results for our shareholders.
It sets out a of auditors is considered annually by the Audit Committee.
broad range of targets under quadrant headings of customers, Annual statements received from CEOs further support operations, people and finance.
This allows the business to be the monitoring of key subsidiary operations.
These statements operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard confirm that the Boards governance policies have been for all stakeholders.
The Board undertakes a formal review adopted in practice and spirit.
of progress on a quarterly basis and any resulting actions Overall, the Audit Committee seeks to ensure that considered appropriate are communicated throughout the whole management process provides adequate control the business.
over all major risks to the Group.
This is achieved through consideration of regular reports from internal and external audit alongside discussions with senior managers.
TESCO PLC 9 Other specialist functions within the Group, notably Trading The CSR Committee has established a set of CSR Key Law and Technical and Company Secretariat, provide Performance Indicators KPIs, and these KPIs are used to assurance and advice on health and safety, regulatory and track performance quarterly and annually.
The KPIs feed legal compliance and social, ethical and environmental issues.
directly into the Steering Wheel monitoring system explained These functions report their findings on a regular basis to earlier and thus contribute to the overall monitoring of the Compliance Committee.
Group performance and control evaluation by the Board.
The Chairman of the CSR Committee makes regular Communication A programme of communication exists reports to the Executive Board on CSR matters.
and is constantly being developed, to ensure that all staff are The CSR KPIs and the related management system aware of the parameters that constitute acceptable business are available in the CSR Review 2002 03 and on-line.
performance and the expectations of the Board in managing risk.
This provides clear denition of the Groups purpose and Risks and opportunities Like all companies, we manage goals, accountabilities and the scope of permitted activities a broad range of financial and non-financial risks, including of companies, executive functions and individual staff.
those relating to our CSR responsibilities.
The most recent CSR assessment found that controls CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Board regards largely mitigated the SEE risks to the business.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR as an integral part Customer focus is fundamental to delivering our strategy of the overall corporate governance framework and is fully and the way we manage risk.
All our business practices centre integrated into existing management structures and systems.
on serving the customer and in meeting those challenges we Therefore, the risk management policies, procedures and recognise our responsibility to deliver quality products at the monitoring methods described above equally apply to our right price.
CSR activities, including the management of social, ethical All companies have to face ethical dilemmas in the and environmental SEE risks.
Our approach comes from the Many investors take an interest in how companies are Tesco Values.
The Values set out the standards we wish to managing non-financial risks as these can, under certain uphold in how we treat people.
circumstances, have an impact on shareholder value.
For These are supported by Codes of Ethics and govern the example, The Association of British Insurers ABI has relationships between ourselves and employees, suppliers and published disclosure guidelines on social responsibility, contractors.
The Compliance Committee regularly monitors including SEE matters, for investors and companies.
The company is a signatory to the Last year, we published our first CSR Review on our DTI Code of Conduct and has met fully its obligations for website, www.
This reects the implementing the Code.
importance that Tesco has placed on CSR over the past In the last year, we have introduced a Human Rights 10 years.
More details of our CSR strategy can be found in policy, and Protector Line a condential telephone helpline the Tesco Corporate Social Responsibility Review 2002 03 for staff to raise their concerns without fear.
We will investigate and on our website.
any allegations of impropriety and take appropriate action as We have an established cross-functional CSR Committee necessary.
More details of the policy are available in the CSR that meets a minimum of four times a year.
Committee is chaired by the Group Corporate Affairs CSR is also an important factor in retaining and recruiting Director, and its membership is made up of senior managers staff.
It helps morale, and programmes such as Charity of the from all parts of the business.
One of its objectives is to Year and Race for Life, encourage staff involvement.
The Tesco identify threats and opportunities for the coming year and CSR website, www.
com everylittlehelps has been cited to highlight emerging issues.
by graduate recruits as one factor in their choice of Tesco as an employer.
10 TESCO PLC corporate governance continued Managing health and safety and supply chain standards The Board regards the Annual General Meeting as an Health and safety standards are very important: the company opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
is committed to providing a safe shopping and working The whole Board attends the meeting and is available to environment for customers, staff and contractors.
answer questions from shareholders present.
The company has established policies, procedures and Each year end, every shareholder may choose to training to identify and minimise the risks inherent in a retail receive a full Annual Report and Financial Statements and distribution business.
or an abbreviated Annual Review and Summary Financial The safety of our products carries the highest Statement.
At the half year, all shareholders receive an responsibility and priority.
We have established, over many Interim Report.
These reports, together with publicly-made years, a comprehensive due diligence process supported trading statements, are available on the Groups website, by technical and product development standards and www.
This assurance covers staff training, providing guidance and auditing suppliers to ensure they supply PENSION FUNDS The assets of the pension funds established quality products for the Tesco brand.
for the benefit of the Groups employees are held separately We have conducted a comprehensive risk analysis from those of the Group.
A trustee company manages both of products, suppliers and factories upon which our audit the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme and the remaining assets of programme is based.
Auditing is carried out on both a the Tesco PLC Money Purchase Pension Scheme.
The Tesco PLC Pension Scheme is a dened benefit Supply chain risks can include, for example, a failure scheme which has over 120,000 contributory members of standards relating to product safety, quality, and animal and nearly 10,000 pensioners.
The Trustee Company Board welfare and worker welfare.
comprises one Executive Director, Mr R S Ager, four senior We review regularly our technical, due diligence and managers and four members appointed from staff and crisis management procedures in the light of the latest pensioners.
Management of the assets is delegated to a scientific research and expert opinion, to ensure that these number of independent fund managers.
These fund managers risks are managed effectively.
have discretion to invest in shares of Tesco PLC, but only to We use in-house experts as well as external advisors the proportional weighting of the shares in the total market.
to look for and analyse emerging issues so that appropriate Details of pension commitments are set out in note 26 action can be taken.
to the financial statements on pages 47 to 49.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board attaches a PROVISIONS IN THE COMBINED CODE Throughout the high importance to maintaining good relationships with all year ended 22 February 2003 the company has been in shareholders and, primarily through the Investor Relations compliance with all of the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 department, ensures that shareholders are kept informed of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except as of significant company developments.
1.7 on the length of Directors During the year, Executive Directors have met with 72 of service agreements, details of which are set out in the report our leading shareholders representing over 53% of the issued of the Directors on remuneration on pages 12 to 21. shares of the company.
While the focus of dialogue is with institutional shareholders to whom regular presentations are made on company direction, care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
TESCO PLC 11 BOARD COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Nominations Remuneration Audit Compliance AS AT 22 FEBRUARY 2003 Committee Committee f Committee g Committee Non-executive Directors Mr J A Gardiner Mr G F Pimlott Mr C L Allen a Mr R F Chase b Ms V Morali c Dr H Einsmann d Mr J W Melbourn e Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy Mr R S Ager Mr P A Clarke a Mr C L Allen retired from the Audit Committee on 14 June 2002. b Mr R F Chase was appointed to the Board and the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees on 1 July 2002. c Ms V Morali was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee on 11 September 2002. d Dr H Einsmann was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 14 June 2002. e Mr J W Melbourn retired from the Board and its Committees on 14 June 2002.
To that date, he was Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
f Mr J A Gardiner and Sir Terry Leahy attend the Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
g Mr J A Gardiner and Mr A T Higginson attend the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
