Corporate Governance Statement The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the company's shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the company and the company's compliance with the Combined Code for Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout 2003, the company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, unless otherwise indicated below.
The company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as set forth below.
The company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company that has been in place for 2003 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Principal controls are managed by the executive directors and key employees, including regular review by management and the board of the operations and the accounts of the company.
Following the Higgs and Smith Reports into the roles of non-executive directors and audit committees, the Code was superseded and replaced in July 2003.
The revised Code will apply to the company for its financial year beginning January 1, 2004, and application and compliance with the revised Code will be reported on in next year's annual report.
Composition and Operation of the Board The board comprises four independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The executive directors are the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Technology Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The board has been established in order to give a balance of knowledge, experience and objective overview.
The three executive directors provide the necessary skills in commercial, operational and financial management.
The board has considered the independence of the non-executive directors and believes that all of the non-executive directors are currently independent of management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The four independent non-executive directors provide a blend of experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the board's deliberations.
The directors' biographies appear on pages 26 and 27.
These demonstrate that the directors have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources, finance, controls and standards of conduct.
The board does not sit with a permanent chairman, but rather the chair rotates amongst the senior members present at the meeting excluding the CEO.
The board is structured to ensure that there is no undue dominance by the executive directors.
The board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the company.
Training is made available to the directors where it is considered appropriate.
A statement of the directors' responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 33.
The board formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision in February 2004.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that the board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary ensures that the directors take independent professional advice as required.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years, and at each annual general meeting one third must retire by rotation.
Directors who are appointed by the board must retire at the next annual general meeting so that they may be re-elected by the shareholders.
Mr. McMonigall is the board's senior non-executive director.
The board meets at least once a quarter and is responsible for the company's strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters, including development of commercial strategy, approval of major business matters and policies, analysis of risk and maintaining adequate systems of internal control, and the approval of financial statements and extraordinary commercial arrangements.
The board has put in place an organisational structure and schedule of matters with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority between executive and non-executive directors.
Prior to each meeting, the board is furnished with timely information in a form and quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the state of the business and performance.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the company's position, lies with the board.
The board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee to deal with specific aspects of the company's affairs: Audit Committee - The Audit Committee is chaired by Mark Opzoomer, and its other members consists of John McMonigall, Barry Ariko and Richard Perle.
The committee has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the scope and results of the external audit, the review of interim and annual results, the involvement of the external auditors in those processes, considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and for advising the board on the requirement to maintain an effective system of internal controls.
The committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the group's external auditors, value for money of the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee has authority over the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the company's auditors.
Corporate Governance Statement 35 The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors regarding independence.
In order to avoid the possibility that the auditors' objectivity and independence could be compromised, the company's tax consulting work is only carried out by the auditors in cases where they are best suited to perform the work, for example, tax compliance and advisory work relating to the audit.
In most cases, the company has engaged another independent firm of accountants to perform tax consulting work.
The company does not award general consulting work to the auditors.
However, from time to time, the company will engage the auditors to perform due diligence work on matters relating to acquisition accounting and due diligence.
In these circumstances, the Chief Financial Officer seeks approval from the committee.
The committee meets at least four times a year, and always prior to the announcement of interim or annual results.
The external auditors and Chief Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the committee is available for it to operate effectively.
The committee also meets at least once a year with the external auditors without any executive directors present.
Remuneration Committee - A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on page 38.
Nominations Committee - The Nominations Committee has responsibility for proposing to the board any new appointments of both executive and nonexecutive directors and makes recommendations to the board on board composition and balance.
The committee currently consists of Messrs. Opzoomer and Perle.
The committee meets as required.
Relations with Shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The interim and annual results are intended to give a detailed review of the business and developments.
A full Annual Report is sent to all shareholders.
The company also has a website www.
com which contains up to date information on company activities and published financial results.
The company holds regular investor conference calls and webcasts, and solicits regular dialogue with institutional shareholders other than during closed periods.
The board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with all and welcomes their participation.
Internal Control The board is responsible for the company's system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness with regard to achieving the company's business objectives and enhancing shareholder value.
Such a system is designed to manage the risk of failure, and by its nature can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the company's internal control systems, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
These reviews are principally based on reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The board has also performed a specific assessment for purposes of this Annual Report.
The directors consider that the company's internal controls, particularly given the company's size and the nature of its business operations, provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main elements of internal control currently include: Operating Company Controls - The identification and mitigation of major business risks on a daily basis is the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management.
Each business function within the company maintains controls and procedures, as directed by senior management, appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to company standards and guidelines.
These include procedures and guidelines to identify, evaluate the likelihood and mitigate all types of risks on an ongoing basis.
Information and Communication - The company's operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting financial and non-financial information to the directors.
Financial projections, including balance sheets and profit and loss and cash flow statements, are reported on a regular basis to senior management against corresponding figures for previous periods.
The central process for evaluating and managing non-financial risks is weekly meetings of business functions, each involving at least one director, together with periodic meetings of executive directors and senior management.
Finance Management - The finance department operates within policies approved by the directors and the Chief Financial Officer.
Expenditures are tightly controlled with stringent approvals required based on amount.
Duties such as legal, finance and operations are also strictly segregated to minimize risk.
Insurance - Insurance cover is provided externally and depends on the scale of the risk in question and the availability of cover in the external market.
Internal Audit - Given the company's relatively small size, with approximately 240 employees world-wide as of December 31, 2003, the extensive internal reporting functions and significant executive director involvement in all aspects of the company's business affairs, the board for the present does not consider it necessary to have its own internal audit function.
The board periodically will review the need for an internal audit function.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the company are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such processes include, in addition to the above, strategic planning, appointing highly skilled managers with accountability, regular monitoring of performance and setting and communicating high standards and targets for ethics, safety and health.
36 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Social, Ethical and Environmental Policies While the company is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its employees, customers and suppliers, and the local communities and environments in which it operates.
The Company Secretary takes responsibility for matters relating to corporate social, ethical and environmental policies.
The company's website includes a section dedicated to corporate ethical, employment and environmental issues.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of intellectual property, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The company strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of or discrimination against its staff.
The company also endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
However, given the company's relatively small size and low social and environmental impact, the company believes that there are few significant risks to the company's short and long term value arising from these matters.
The company believes it has adequate information to assess these matters, and these matters form a part of the company's risk management policies where relevant.
The company recognises that all human activities interact with the environment and considers environmental management to be an integral part of good business practice.
As a developer of software the company has no manufacturing facilities and its premises are composed exclusively of offices.
"All of the company's ""products"" are software licenses, the majority of which are delivered electronically to customers."
Autonomy's policy is to endeavour to minimise the impact of its activities on the environment and to comply with all relevant environmental laws and regulations.
The company's environmental policy is published on its website.
The company actively encourages every employee to work together to meet the requirements of this policy.
By order of the board, Andrew M Kanter Company Secretary April 14, 2004 Corporate Governance Statement 37
