CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board promotes the highest standards of corporate governance Accordingly, the Board believes that there are no such relationships within the Company through its support and application of the that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined judgment.
Marshall Wallach is the only non-executive Director deemed not to be independent as a result of his advisory capacity to the Gates Code.
A summary of the Companys system of applying the principles family who, notwithstanding the redemption of the redeemable and the manner in which the provisions in Section 1 have been convertible cumulative preference shares during the course of 2003, complied with are set out in this report to shareholders.
Section 1 of remain substantial preference shareholders in the Company.
Nonthe Combined Code sets out the main and supporting Principles of executive directors are normally appointed for a period of two years, Good Governance for companies, which are split into the following which is renewable by agreement with the Board.
The terms and areas: directors, remuneration, accountability and audit, and relations conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for with shareholders.
inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection at the Annual General A DIRECTORS Meeting.
The Combined Code recommends the appointment of a 1.
The Board senior independent non-executive Director and Sir Brian Pitman has The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards served in such capacity during the year under review.
main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership The role of non-executive Directors is to challenge constructively, of the Company, to approve the Companys strategic objectives and and help develop, proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made management in meeting agreed objectives and monitor the reporting available to the management to enable them to meet those objectives.
of performance, including satisfying themselves as to the integrity of The Board, which has reserved certain specic matters to itself for financial information, and that financial controls and systems of risk decision, is responsible for approving overall Group strategy and management put in place by the Company are robust and effective.
financial policy, acquisition and divestment policy and major capital They meet together from time to time in the absence of management expenditure projects.
It also appoints and removes members of the and the Chairman normally presides over such meetings.
Board and Board Committees, and reviews recommendations of the Directors receive a range of information about the Company upon Remuneration Committee and the appointment of auditors and the appointment and, where appropriate, any training that is necessary for financial performance and operation of each of the businesses.
them to carry out their duties effectively.
An induction programme is The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive officer available which aims to provide an understanding of the Company as responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group subject a whole, including its strategy, structure, geographical spread of to certain financial limits above which Board approval is required.
operations, financial position, markets, products, technologies and Such delegated authority includes such matters as acquisitions and people, as well as the legal responsibilities of a Director.
The Directors divestitures, investments, capital expenditure, borrowing facilities have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose and foreign currency transactions.
removal may be effected only with the approval of the Board.
There is The Board of Directors is comprised of a non-executive Chairman, an approved procedure by which all Directors can obtain independent five additional non-executive Directors and two executive Directors professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their who together, with their different ages, financial, commercial, duties, if required: this procedure is reviewed periodically.
technical and operational expertise and cultures, bring with them The Board meets not less than five times a year, and will hold a wide range of experience to the Company.
additional meetings when circumstances require.
During the year The Board has determined that David Newlands, Norman to 3 January 2004, the Board met on seven occasions, including Broadhurst, Jack Keenan, Ken Minton and Sir Brian Pitman are a meeting held solely to consider and approve Group strategy.
independent, as they are independent of the Companys executive Between meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive officer management and free from any material business or other update the non-executive Directors on current matters and there relationship with the Company either directly or as a partner, is frequent contact to progress the affairs of the Company.
shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship Attendance by each individual Director at Board and Committee meetings held during 2003 is set out in the table below: with the Company.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Health, Safety and Board Committee Committee Committee Environment Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director held attended held attended held attended held attended held attended David Newlands 7 7 N A N A N A N A 1 1 N A N A Norman Broadhurst 76445511 N A N A Jack Keenan 76445311 N A N A Ken Lever 7 7 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Ken Minton 7744551144 James Nicol 7 7 N A N A N A N A N A N A 4 4 Sir Brian Pitman 7 5 N A N A N A N A 1 1 N A N A Anthony Reading 7 7 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Marshall Wallach 7 7 N A N A N A N A 1144 Notes: 1 N A Not applicable where a Director is not a member of a Committee.
2 The table provides details of the attendance record of each Director at meetings of the Board and of its respective Committees.
During the year, other Directors have attended meetings of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee by invitation.
These details are not included in the table.
3 On the rare occasion where a Director cannot attend a meeting, he will normally, prior to the meeting, make his views on the agenda items known to the Chairman or, in respect of Committee meetings, to the chairman of the respective Committee.
TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Board sets the standards and values of the Company and much 3.
Board performance evaluation of this has been embodied in the Companys Code of Conduct and The Board conducted an evaluation of its own effectiveness and the Ethics and Human Rights Policy which can be found on the Companys evaluation process concentrated on six key elements comprising: website www.
The Code of Conduct and Ethics applies i the optimum mix of skills and knowledge amongst the Directors, to all directors, ofcers and employees, including the principal ii clarity of goals and processes, iii tailoring the evaluation to the executive, financial and accounting ofcers, as required by section specic circumstances of Tomkins, iv the culture of candour that 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the related rules of the US encourages constructive evaluation, v regular reviews of assessment Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the New York criteria and vi full disclosure of procedures and criteria to the Board.
The Code contains provisions in paragraph XVI The results of the first evaluation were that, in general, much progress under which employees can report violations of company policy or had been made during the previous two years in improving the any applicable law, rule or regulation including those of the US effectiveness of the Board but progress could still be made in Securities and Exchange Commission.
US employees have the added improving overall performance.
The evaluation found that the wide protection of section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which prohibits range of skills and experience of the present group of Directors the discrimination by a company or others against an employee where provided a sound basis for an effective Board.
Improvements in Board such violations are reported.
The current procedure, which is set out performance could be achieved through a number of measures in Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, provides for information to including the use of a more formal induction programme for new be given anonymously or by named employees under conditions of Directors, modications to some Board processes and procedures, condentiality.
Those employees who come forward and give their a greater understanding of the macro-economic environment in which name are assured that they will receive the full protection of section the Companys businesses are operating and regular reviews of 806 and no retaliation will take place.
This is predominantly a US succession planning initiatives.
The matters identied in the Board requirement but the principles will be applied in other jurisdictions, performance evaluation have been considered by the Board and subject to local employment law.
action has been taken to address those matters.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed and evaluated Re-election of Directors annually by the Board in his absence and it is intended that the At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, evaluation of individual Directors and Board committees will David Newlands, Ken Lever and Sir Brian Pitman will stand for recommence in 2004. election.
Details of their terms of appointment can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
The Board strongly supports their 4.
Board Committees re-election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their The Board has established a number of committees with re-election.
David Newlands brings to the Board and the affairs of the their own delegated authorities as dened in their terms of Company, considerable financial and management experience having reference, which are reviewed periodically, and receives reports been finance director of The General Electric Company, p. l. c. and a of their proceedings.
A review of the terms of reference of non-executive director of a number of other companies.
He also has Board Committees has been undertaken and amendments made substantial experience in relationships with institutional shareholders.
to reect recent changes in corporate governance requirements.
Sir Brian Pitman spent almost 50 years with Lloyds Bank, becoming The Board is satisfied that its Committees have written terms Chief Executive in 1983 and Chairman for his last four years with the of reference which conform to best corporate governance bank.
Having managed a large financial institution, he brings extensive practice.
The terms of reference for all Board Committees experience to the Board, together with a wide knowledge of the City can be found on the Companys website www.
co. uk and institutional shareholders and a particular emphasis on creating or a copy can be obtained by application to the Company shareholder value.
Secretary at the Companys registered ofce.
The Board appoints the chairmen and members of 2.
Chairman and Chief Executive officer all Board Committees upon the recommendation of the There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman Nomination Committee.
and the Chief Executive officer, with neither having unfettered The Company Secretary is Secretary to all Board Committees.
powers of decision with respect to substantial matters.
The Chairman The principal Committees, their membership, a brief description is responsible for running the Board and ensures that all Directors of their terms of reference and their duties are as follows: receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate matters to enable them to participate effectively in Board Audit Committee decisions.
In advance of each meeting, the Board is provided with N N Broadhurst Chairman, K J Minton, J M J Keenan.
comprehensive brieng papers on items under consideration.
The Board has determined that all members of the Audit Committee During the year, the Chairman, David Newlands, was appointed are independent for the purposes of the new Combined Code and chairman of Kesa Electrical plc and deputy chairman of The Standard rule 10A.
3 b 1 under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Life Assurance Company.
Whilst these are important appointments, the section 303A of the New York Stock Exchanges Listed Company Board of Tomkins believes that the Chairman continues to be able to Manual.
In addition, the members have wide-ranging financial, carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Company.
commercial and management experience which they bring to the The Chief Executive Ofcers primary role is the running of work of the Audit Committee.
A brief summary of their biographical the Companys businesses and the development and implementation details is set out on page 19.
The Chairman of the Committee, of strategy.
Norman Broadhurst is a chartered accountant FCA and a Fellow The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with of the Institute of Corporate Treasurers, having previously been group the Chairman and with the Chief Executive officer periodically, either finance director of Railtrack PLC 1994 to 2000 and joint deputy chief together or separately, to consider and discuss a wide range of matters executive and finance director of VSEL Consortium PLC 1990 to 1994. affecting the Company, its business, strategy and other matters.
In accordance with section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 28 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 the Board has determined that Norman Broadhurst is an audit The Committee met four times during the year to 3 January 2004 and committee financial expert as that term is dened under the rules reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The Companys internal of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, having significant, and external auditors attend meetings and have the opportunity to relevant and up-to-date UK and US financial and accounting raise matters or concerns in the absence of executive Directors and knowledge and experience.
other senior executives at separate meetings with the Committee and The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and at other times.
on other occasions when circumstances require and reviews the The Committees Terms of Reference take account of the Guidance Companys financial statements and reports including earnings Notes set out in Sir Robert Smiths Report published in January 2003. releases before they are submitted to the Board for approval.
It Remuneration Committee reviews the Companys financial and corporate controls, accounting K J Minton Chairman, N N Broadhurst, J M J Keenan.
policies, internal audit and business risk assurance activities and The Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year and it monitors compliance with statutory requirements for financial on other occasions when circumstances require, comprises independent reporting.
It also keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups non-executive Directors and has responsibility for determining internal control systems including financial, operational and Company policy on executive remuneration for approval by the Board.
compliance controls and risk management procedures.
It considers It also determines specic remuneration packages and compensation reports from external auditors, internal auditors, business risk packages on employment or early termination of ofce for each of the assurance executives and from other members of management and executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee takes independent reports and makes recommendations to the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee keeps under review the scope and results of the advice from consultants as and when required.
All decisions of the external audit, its cost effectiveness, the independence and objectivity Remuneration Committee in respect of remuneration packages of of the auditor and the nature and extent of non-audit services executive Directors are referred to the Board.
No executive Director supplied to the Group by the external auditor, seeking to balance takes part in any discussion or decision concerning his own the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
The Remuneration Committee also monitors the In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services compensation packages of other senior executives in the Group below provided by the external auditor, the Committee takes account of the Board level.
rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission which regulate The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on and, in certain circumstances, prohibit certain types of non-audit page 31. services, certain other rules, including those relating to audit partner Nomination Committee rotation, and relevant ethical guidance issued by the professional D B Newlands Chairman, N N Broadhurst, J M J Keenan, K J Minton, bodies in the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies, in Sir Brian Pitman, M F Wallach.
particular that the external auditor should not audit its own rms The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board work, make management decisions for the Company, create a on all proposed appointments of Directors through a formal and mutuality of interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the transparent procedure.
The Committee meets as and when required.
The Committee believes that, taken together, the adoption In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are of these rules and regulations provides adequate protection of auditor subject to re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting immediately independence.
All fees proposed by the external auditor must be following the date of their appointment, and thereafter they have to reported to the Audit Committee and prior approval is required from the Chairman of the Audit Committee for any projects above seek re-appointment no more than three years from the date they specified limits.
The Committee recommends to the Board the The Companys practice, in accordance with the UK Companies names of the Directors who are to seek re-appointment at the Annual Act and new Combined Code in relation to the appointment and General Meeting.
termination of the external auditor, involves a recommendation from During the year, no new Board appointments were made.
the Audit Committee to the Board, which will then make a Accordingly, the Nomination Committee was not called upon to initiate recommendation to shareholders in general meeting.
This differs from a recruitment process, but the Committee and Board are aware of and the procedure in the US, where the external auditor is accountable support the principles set out in section A.
to the Audit Committee, which has the authority to appoint or dismiss Health, Safety and Environment Committee the external auditors without reference to shareholders.
With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established The Health, Safety and Environment Committee meets at least four guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of times a year.
The Committee is chaired by an independent nonthe external auditor.
Tomkins will not engage, on a part-time or fullexecutive Director and its membership also includes the Chief Executive time basis, any person who is or was an employee of the Companys officer.
Its principal role is to determine on behalf of the Board the external auditor, where that person has worked on the Groups audit framework or broad policy and objectives in the areas of health, safety either as a principal or partner at any time during a period of not less and the environment HSE and propose any amendments to existing than three years prior to the proposed date of joining the Tomkins policies for approval by the Board.
It also reviews managements Group.
In addition, though Tomkins may employ an employee of the performance in the achievement of HSE objectives and reviews HSE Companys external auditor where such person has never worked on the Groups audit either as a principal or partner, a period of not less reports produced by business units for compliance with all health, than one year must elapse prior to the proposed date of that person safety and environmental local codes of practice, legislation and joining the Company.
Any former employee of the external auditor relevant industry practice.
More details of the work of the Health, who joined the Company before the external auditor was appointed Safety and Environment Committee can be found in the Corporate will remain unaffected.
Social Responsibility report on page 20.
TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued General Purposes Committee institutional shareholders.
The Chairman also maintains regular contact J Nicol Chairman, K Lever, E H Lewzey, J E Middleton, N C Porter, with a number of the Companys major shareholders.
The Company K A Sullivan, M T Swain, N P Wilkinson.
exercises care to ensure that all price-sensitive information is released The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
It to all shareholders at the same time, as required by the Listing Rules comprises executive Directors and senior executives and the quorum of the Financial Services Authority and Regulation FD in the US.
requires the presence of at least one executive Director.
The Committee The Companys website www.
co. uk provides shareholders deals principally with day-to-day matters of a routine nature and and potential investors with information about the Company including matters delegated to it by the Board.
annual and interim reports, trading updates, recent announcements, investor presentations, share price information, group policies and the B REMUNERATION terms of reference of its Board Committees.
Shareholders are also able The Remuneration Committee report to shareholders can be found on to put questions to the Company via its website.
page 31 and sets out the Companys remuneration policy, procedures The Company aims to deal expeditiously with all enquiries from and the remuneration of individual Directors and related information.
individual shareholders on a wide range of matters.
Individual shareholders also have the opportunity of attending the Annual C ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT General Meeting to put questions to the Chairman and chairmen of Financial reporting Board Committees.
The Chief Executive officer gives a presentation to The Board, through the Operating review and Financial review, shareholders covering a wide range of matters affecting the Company seeks to provide a detailed review of each business of the Group.
and its business and shareholders also have the opportunity to ask him In conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive questions.
The Company indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in Ofcers statement, the Financial review and the Directors report, the respect of each resolution proposed at its Annual General Meeting Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of following each vote on a show of hands.
In the event of a poll being the Companys position and prospects.
called, the result will be published as soon as possible after the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors also meet Internal control informally with shareholders before and after the meeting.
The Further information on the internal control environment within which Company keeps under review ways in which it can communicate more Tomkins operates may be found in the Directors statement on internal effectively with its shareholders throughout the year, as well as at the control on page 26.
It has been the Companys practice to send the Notice of the Going concern Annual General Meeting and related papers to shareholders at least The Directors statement in relation to the Company and Group 20 working days before the meeting and to propose separate functioning on a going concern basis appears in the Financial review resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
Institutional shareholders Whistleblower reporting procedures The Board notes that Section 2 of the new Combined Code seeks to Under section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, all public companies, encourage more active participation by institutional shareholders including non-US public companies such as Tomkins, acting through including entering into a dialogue with companies and making the Audit Committee of the Board must provide a procedure for considered use of their votes principles which the Company supports.
i the receipt and retention, and ii the treatment of complaints received by the Company regarding accounting, internal controls Compliance statement or auditing matters.
A procedure has been agreed in principle by the The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require the Board Audit Committee for the condential and anonymous submission by to report on compliance with the provisions contained in Section 1 of employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing the Combined Code.
The new Combined Code, issued in July 2003, matters and is expected to be put in place by June 2004. is only effective for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
However, Tomkins considers that throughout the year to D RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 3 January 2004 the Company has been in compliance with the The Company places a high degree of importance on maintaining provisions set out in Section 1 of the new Combined Code, except good relationships and communications with both institutional and for those matters indicated in the Corporate Governance Report and private investors and ensures that shareholders are kept informed the Remuneration Committee Report.
The certications of the Chief Executive officer and Finance In order to assist members of the Board to gain an understanding Director required under section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of the views of institutional shareholders, at each of its meetings the of 2002, and the related rules of the US Securities and Exchange Board receives an Investor Relations Report, which covers a wide range Commission, will be led as exhibits to the Companys Form 20-F. of matters including a commentary on the perception of the Company In addition, following the Annual General Meeting, Mr. Nicol will and views expressed by the investment community.
Analysts reports certify to the New York Stock Exchange that he is unaware of any are also made available to all Directors.
The announcement of violations by the Company of the New York Stock Exchanges quarterly, interim and final results provides opportunities for the corporate governance listing standards.
Company to answer questions from institutional shareholders covering The Company has placed on its website, www.
co. uk, a wide range of topics.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional a general summary of the significant ways in which the Companys shareholders to ensure mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief corporate governance differs from that followed by domestic US Executive officer participates in industry conferences organised by companies under the New York Stock Exchanges listing standards, investment banks, which are attended by existing and potential as required by section 303A.
11. shareholders, and he holds regular meetings with analysts and 30 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003
