INTERNAL CONTROL The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of underlying rationale and support for the significant line item internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To full this components comprising the balance sheets for each business responsibility the directors have established a planning, control in the Group.
and performance management framework within which each Capital authorisation approval all significant capital of the Groups businesses operate.
Within this framework, expenditures are subject to a formal capital authorisation process, the management of each of the businesses considers strategic, which takes into account, inter alia, operational, financial and operational, commercial and financial risks and identies risk technical risks.
For significant capital projects, a post-investment mitigation actions.
Whilst acknowledging the overall responsibility analysis is completed to facilitate continuous improvement in the for the system of internal control the directors are aware that the capital planning process, including risk identication and mitigation.
system is designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of Reporting, analysis and forecasts all businesses are required to failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable report monthly to the Corporate Centre on financial performance and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
compared to plan, forecast and prior year and to explain significant During the period under review, the directors were not aware variances from plan and changes in the business environment.
of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss.
Monthly each business reassesses its forecast for the financial The planning, control and performance management framework, year.
Quarterly, each business prepares a forecast for the following which includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and eighteen months and reviews projections for the three-year period managing the significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place covered by the financial plan.
throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of the Financial strategy the financial strategy includes assessment Annual Report and Accounts.
Each business units management of the major financial risks related to interest rate exposure, identies and assesses the key business risks affecting the foreign currency exposure, debt maturity and liquidity.
There is achievement of its objectives.
Business unit management also a comprehensive global insurance programme using the external identies the risk management processes used to mitigate the insurance market and some limited use of an internal captive key risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate, additional insurance company.
Group Treasury manages hedging activities, actions required to further manage and mitigate them.
The risk relating to financial risks, with external cover for net currency summaries developed out of this process are updated at least transaction exposures.
The Group Tax function manages tax annually.
In addition, Corporate Centre management considers compliance and tax risks associated with the Groups activities.
those risks to the Groups strategic objectives that may not be The Audit Committee through the Finance Committee oversees identied and managed at the business unit level.
the financial strategy as well as the tax strategy and considers the In connection with quarterly business reviews, relevant associated risks and risk management techniques being used by executives discuss risk management activities with Corporate the Group.
The key risks and mitigation strategies are Reporting certications in connection with the preparation also discussed at least annually with the Audit Committee as well of the annual and quarterly financial statements, senior business as the full Board.
general management and financial management sign a certicate The risk management framework described above is applied which includes a declaration regarding the existence of internal to major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well controls, the proper recording of transactions and the identication as operational risks within the business including environmental, and evaluation of significant business risks.
Sarbanes-Oxley as a foreign private issuer FPI listed on the The other key elements of the framework, which constitutes the NYSE in the US, the Group is subject to the provisions of the control environment, are: Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act.
Specically, Section 404 Business strategy reviews each business is required to prepare requires certications by management regarding the effectiveness a strategic position assessment taking into account the current and of internal controls over financial reporting and requires our likely future market environment and competitive position of the external auditors to express an opinion on our assertions regarding business with specic consideration given to strategic risk.
Accordingly, the Group is undertaking a Corporate Centre management reviews the strategy with each project to ensure we are in compliance with the requirements of business and the Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
Section 404 by 31 December 2005 the effective date for the Group Business reviews on a quarterly basis, Corporate Centre as a FPI.
While the certication and external audit opinion on management performs extensive reviews with each business.
internal controls over financial reporting will be reported in Tomkins These reviews consider current and projected financial and US SEC lings, the results of our compliance with the Act will serve operating results, and address the progress of key strategic and to further strengthen the internal control framework for the Group.
operating initiatives, the risks affecting their achievement and the The Group established an internal audit function in 2001 and actions being taken by business unit management to manage the uses a co-sourcing arrangement.
The Vice President Business risks and achieve their objectives.
Risk Assurance directs the activities of the internal auditors on a Financial plans each business prepares financial plans in day-to-day basis and reports directly to the Audit Committee of accordance with a dened format, which includes consideration the Board at least four times a year.
As part of their financial audit of risks.
To the extent that risks are both reasonably estimable and responsibilities, the external auditors also provide reports to the likely to occur, they are reected specically in the respective Audit Committee on the operation of internal controls affecting key business plan.
Management at the Corporate Centre reviews the financial processes.
The directors confirm that the effectiveness of financial plans with the business units and a summary is presented the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December, 2003 to the Board for approval.
has been reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance Balance sheet reviews business unit and Corporate Centre for directors on the Combined Code Internal Control issued financial management conduct periodic, on-site reviews of in September 1999.
