TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Audit committee report For the year ended 31 December 2003 ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is responsible for: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: Reviewing the companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by the board itself, the companys internal control and risk management systems: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function: Making recommendations to the board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, which during the year comprised a chairman, Michael Dearden, and two other non-executive directors, Peter Maydon and Ted Adams, has since 12 February 2004, included Chris Bunker a non-executive director with current financial experience gained from his role as group finance director of Thames Water.
On 29 April 2004 Chris Bunker will take over the chairmanship of the Audit Committee from Michael Dearden who will continue his role as a member of the committee.
Peter Maydon ceased to be a member of the committee on 1 March 2004.
All members of the committee, with the exception of Ted Adams are considered to be independent.
As explained on page 34, the board believes that shareholders benefit from Ted Adams experience of the builders merchant sector and of the company, and that this applies to his work on the Audit Committee.
He is also a chartered accountant.
The group company secretary, Andrew Pike, is appointed secretary to the Audit Committee.
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE The Committee met three times during 2003 to consider the annual results, the interim results and the independence, objectivity and re-appointment of the Auditors.
Internal financial control systems were also considered at each meeting.
The chairman of the committee also invited the group chairman, the group finance director, the group financial controller, the head of internal audit and the external auditors to attend each meeting.
During each meeting the external auditors were given the opportunity to talk with the Committee without the presence of management.
The opportunity for the head of internal audit to meet formally with the committee at least annually without management being present will be put in place during 2004.
MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR During the year the Audit Committee reviewed its terms of reference and processes in light of the recommendations set out in the Smith Report.
It 37 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC concluded that a number of procedural changes were necessary which included formalising appointment and training practices for members of the committee, formalising the relationship with internal audit and considering in greater detail the appointment and independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In addition, the review of the group whistle blowing policy resulted in the group commencing the implementation of a mechanism to enable staff to report in confidence to internal audit, financial control, reporting or fraud issues.
At its meeting in March, the committee reviewed the annual financial statements of the company and received reports from the internal auditors on control matters and from the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgement and the financial statements and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal control.
A similar review was undertaken at its September meeting when the interim statements were considered.
In November the committee reviewed the groups internal financial controls and risk management procedures, considered the re-appointment of the external auditors and discussed their plans for the audit of the 31 December 2003 financial statements.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS The company places great importance on the effectiveness and independence of its external auditors and together with them is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
At its November meeting the auditors presented to the committee their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of their proposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and independence are not compromised.
It is the role of the committee to ensure compliance with the boards policy in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, the auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated by the finance director and approved by the Audit Committee.
For other services that may be provided by the auditors, the companys policy is: Audit related services - The auditors are invited by the company to undertake those services that they are required to and are most suited to perform.
Such work would include certification in respect of borrowings, stock exchange related reporting and where appropriate, assistance with acquisitions.
Taxation - The external auditors assist the group to meet general tax compliance requirements as well as providing advice on acquisitions and tax planning.
Should opportunities arise for them to advise on special projects, their suitability is assessed at the time to ensure it would not compromise their audit independence, with the work being tendered where appropriate.
Consulting - To avoid any possible conflict of interest the groups policy is not to employ its auditors for general consulting work.
Following its November 2003 meeting, the committee recommended to the board that a resolution be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the external auditor.
INTERNAL AUDIT During its meetings in 2003 the committee received presentations from the head of internal audit about the results of work undertaken by the internal audit department and its future plans.
OVERVIEW As a result of its work during the year the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
