TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Corporate governance For the year ended 31 December 2003 COMBINED CODE In June 1998, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was issued by the London Stock Exchange.
This was revised in July 2003 the New Code.
Although the New Code does not formally apply to the year ending 31 December 2003, the company has reported below as if it did, in addition to reporting its compliance with the conditions of the Code.
Section 1 of the New Code is applicable to companies.
A statement on how the company has applied the principles and a statement explaining the extent to which it has complied with the provisions of the New Code appear below.
The New Code contains fourteen principles of governance, which are divided into the following four areas.
Directors The company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently comprises three executive and six non-executive directors.
Tim Stevenson is chairman and Frank McKay is chief executive.
Peter Maydon is the senior independent non-executive director.
Chris Bunker, Michael Dearden and Tim Stevenson are also independent non-executive directors.
Ted Adams and Charles Fisher are not considered to be independent non-executive directors in view of their previous executive positions.
It is presently anticipated that Charles Fisher will retire from the board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2004.
The board strongly believes that shareholders derive considerable benefit from the presence on the board of Ted Adams who has many years experience of the builders merchant sector and of the company and its business and culture.
It is presently intended that he should complete his current term of appointment, which expires in December 2005, at which time the matter will be reviewed.
Appointments of new directors are made by the board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
This was established as a separate committee in July 2003, board appointments having previously been dealt with by a combined Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
All directors will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at least ten times a year.
It is responsible for overall group strategy, policy on corporate governance issues, acquisition policy, approval of major capital expenditure and consideration of significant financial and operational matters.
It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategic direction of the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and progress towards the achievement of those budgets and their capital expenditure programmes.
It also considers legislative, environmental, health and safety and employment issues.
The board has approved a written statement of the division of key responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive.
The chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director is able to make an effective contribution.
He also monitors the information provided to the board to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time to time the board reviews the adequacy of this information.
The board held eleven meetings during 2003, all of which were attended by all directors.
One meeting dealt specifically with consideration of the companys long-term strategy, and four meetings were either combined with visits to parts of the companys operations or included presentations by senior executives on their areas of responsibility.
Programmes for individual visits to operational sites by non-executive directors have also been arranged.
In addition to the regular board meetings, key financial information is circulated to directors outside of meetings.
The chairman has regular direct contact with the executive directors and keeps the non-executive directors informed of material developments between board meetings.
All directors have direct access to the company secretary and are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
The company maintains Directors & Officers insurance in respect of the risk of claims against directors.
The chairman held one meeting during the year with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors being present.
The senior independent director held one meeting during the year with the other non-executive directors, without the chairman being present, to review the chairmans performance, as described in more detail on page 35.
The induction process for new directors was reviewed and expanded during the year, and is facilitated by the company secretary.
The chairman ensures that all directors receive appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as needed, taking into account their need to update their skills and their knowledge of the companys business.
34 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The board has established three standing committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee, which operate within defined terms of reference, which may be obtained from the company secretary.
These terms of reference were reviewed during the year and amendments agreed by the board to reflect the New Code.
The minutes of committee meetings are available to all the directors.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee or, prior to July 2003, the combined Remuneration & Nominations Committee met seven times, the Nominations Committee twice, and the Audit Committee three times.
All committee meetings were attended by all members of the relevant committee.
The reports of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee are on pages 37 and 38, 39 to 44 and 45 respectively.
The board undertook an evaluation of its performance during the year.
It was assisted in this process by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA.
The process took the form of interviews by the ICSA representative with each director and the company secretary separately, focussing on a number of statements about the operation of the board.
These interviews formed the basis of a report by ICSA which was the subject of a discussion by the board, facilitated by the ICSA representatives.
The board was satisfied that the process showed that the board and its committees worked effectively.
Nevertheless, the board agreed a number of measures aimed at further enhancing its performance.
These will be reviewed, and the evaluation process repeated, during 2004.
In addition, during the year, the senior independent director led a process for appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Each director responded to a questionnaire relating to aspects of the chairmans role, and the responses were the subject of a discussion between the senior independent director and the other non-executive directors without the chairman being present.
The senior independent director subsequently reported to the full board.
The process will be repeated in 2004.
In addition, the board intends during 2004 to carry out appraisals of the performance of the other directors, and of the board committees.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors, and meets at least twice a year.
Its responsibilities include a review of the performance of executive directors and other senior executives prior to determining their remuneration.
The remuneration of the nonexecutive directors is determined by the board of directors as a whole.
No director plays a part in the discussion about his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 39 to 44.
Accountability and audit A review of the performance of the groups trading subsidiaries and the financial position of the group is included in the chief executives review and in the finance directors report set out on pages 8 to 17.
The board uses them, together with the chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, to present a full assessment of the companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described on page 48.
INTERNAL CONTROL The board of directors is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In designing the system of internal control, consideration is given to the significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and the overall cost of controlling them.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The implementation and day-to-day operation of the system of internal controls has been delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed by the board in a process that accords with the Turnbull Report.
As part of its corporate governance procedures the board has received regular reports on specific areas of risk.
If appropriate, these reports include recommendations for improvement in controls or for the management of those risks.
Furthermore, steps continue to be taken to integrate risk management procedures into the groups operations, to extend awareness of the importance of the management of risk and to ensure that recommended improvements brought to the attention of the board are implemented.
During 2003, the board reviewed its ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the group, and for improving the system of internal control.
The board has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management procedures, during the year and up until the date of approval of the annual report.
This comprised receiving a report from the chairman of the Audit Committee and an update on the monthly reports the board had previously received.
35 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 37 and 38.
Relations with shareholders The company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received orally or in writing.
During the year the chairman, chief executive and the finance director, either separately or together, attended a number of meetings with analysts, and with shareholders representing circa 70 per cent of the issued share capital.
The senior independent director will also attend a number of such meetings in 2004.
In addition, the chairman has written to institutional investors representing circa 40 per cent of issued share capital, offering them the opportunity at any time to meet with him, the senior independent director or any non-executive director.
The chairman, chief executive and finance director report fully to the board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, written reports about the company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
As well as sending annual and interim reports to shareholders, the company issues an annual trading statement in early January.
All shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General meeting at which all directors are available for questions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
The numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The company is pleased to report that it has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The company can also report that by 31 December 2003, it complied with the provisions in Section 1 of the New Code except: A3.2 Independent non-executive directors did not account for at least half of the board membership.
The boards position in relation to Ted Adams is explained on page 34.
The board considers the present make-up of the board, which after Charles Fishers anticipated retirement at the conclusion of the AGM, will consist of five non-executive directors including the chairman, four of whom are independent, and three executive directors, provides an appropriate blend of skills and experience.
However, it will review the matter further during 2004.
A6 During 2003 the board did not carry out an evaluation of the performance of its committees or of individual directors other than the chairman.
C3.1 The Audit Committee did not consist wholly of independent non-executive directors.
The boards position on this matter is explained on page 37.
