Corporate Governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of of work is undertaken by these Committees and that a nonCorporate Governance.
This statement, together with the executive director can only properly fulfil his or her Remuneration Report and the Directors Report set out on responsibilities if they are present during committee meetings pages 46 to 54, describes how the Company has applied the and are able to follow the detail of discussion and debate held relevant principles of the Combined Code, as published in 1998. at those meetings.
Similarly, the Chairman, in addition to chairing the Nominations Committee, is a full member of the As this report covers a financial year commencing prior to Remuneration Committee and attends meetings of the Audit 1 November 2003 the Company is not required to comply with Committee at the invitation of its Chairman.
The Board, however, believes that the Company complies with most of the new Code.
Any As a result of this policy some would say that the Company exceptions are fully explained.
does not comply with certain parts of the new Combined Code in that directors who may not be regarded as independent During 2003 the Board established a Corporate Governance serve on the Remuneration Committee.
The Board believes that sub-committee, consisting of the Chairman, the Senior the benefits derived from the wider participation of nonIndependent Director and the Secretary and Group Legal executive directors on the Board committees justifies this nonDirector.
This Committee was established as a formal compliance.
It also feels strongly that the Chairman of the Committee of the Board with written terms of reference under Company should be a full member of the Remuneration which it was required to review and monitor the Companys Committee as that Committee helps set the performance compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, to make culture of the Group.
By the nature of his role the Chairman also regular reports to the full Board on that compliance and make has more frequent contact with the management and is recommendations as to any changes that may be necessary.
therefore better able than the other non-executives to judge Inevitably the Committee considered the proposals put forward both their performance and the needs of the business.
by Derek Higgs and the Revised Combined Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee found that Directors the Company was compliant with the then current standards There are currently ten directors: The Chairman, Sir Victor Blank: of Corporate Governance best practice but made certain Chief Executive, Sly Bailey: Senior Independent Director, recommendations in light of the new Combined Code.
All those Peter Birch, three other executive directors and four other nonrecommendations were accepted by the full Board and are executive directors.
The directors biographies are set out on reflected in the report that follows.
pages 32 and 33 and illustrate the directors breadth of experience, which should ensure an effective Board to lead and The Board control the Group.
The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the reserved to itself, including the Groups strategic plans, Chief Executive has been set out in writing and approved by acquisitions or disposals, capital expenditure, all financing the Board.
matters, annual operating plan and budget and the Groups operating and financial performance.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms.
The Board meets regularly and a schedule of attendance is Before a non-executive director is proposed for re-election by shown on page 39. shareholders, the Nominations Committee meets to consider whether his or her performance continues to be effective and The Board also delegates specific responsibilities to Committees, whether they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
The each of which has clear written Terms of Reference, as Committee intends to meet at least once a year to review the described below.
During 2003 the Board appointed Leonard Hull International to The Board believes that all its non-executive directors are conduct a formal evaluation of its performance.
David Marlow, who is Chairman of the Audit took the form of extensive interviews with every director Committee, was first appointed as a director of the Company in followed by a formal written report presented to and discussed 1992.
Although Mr Marlow has served for more than nine years with the Chairman.
This report was then debated by the as a director the Board still considers him to be independent as Nominations Committee and further distributed to the full Board.
he demonstrates that independence at every Board meeting and meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Board believes that the Following the Corporate Governance review mentioned above Company and its shareholders have benefited hugely from Mr it was agreed to amend the membership of each of the Board Marlows chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
His experience Committees so that all non-executive directors serve as and guidance were invaluable during the period between Finance members of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Directors and whilst Mr Vaghela settled into his new role.
The Board believes that an increasing amount Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 36 37 Sir Angus Grossart is non-executive Vice Chairman of the Royal The Remuneration Report set out on pages 46 to 52 contains Bank of Scotland, which is one of the Companys commercial a more detailed description of the Companys policies and bankers.
As Sir Angus has no executive powers in either procedures for executive remuneration.
The Chief Executive company and is not involved in the consideration of the and the Company Secretary, as appropriate, attend meetings commercial terms of the relationship the Company does not of the Committee but they do not participate in discussions believe that this connection affects his independence.
Every director is subject to re-election by shareholders every The Committee has formal written terms of reference which three years.
are published on the Companys website.
An assessment is made of any training needs on a directors Nomination Committee appointment and the appropriate training provided.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
All the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive are members.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and, The Committee meets as required to select and propose to in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Committee would normally expect to use the services of professional external headhunters The Chairman has declared to the Company his other to help in the search for and selection of candidates.
significant commitments, which are the Chairmanship of GUS plc.
He is also Chairman of the charity Wellbeing, on the The Committee has formal written terms of reference which Council of Oxford University and serves on various industry are published on the Companys website.
During the year he stepped down as a director of Chubb Plc and Coats Plc.
Administration Committee Audit Committee The Administration Committee consists of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Company Secretary and meets The Audit Committee is chaired by David Marlow.
Sir Angus as necessary to deal with administrative matters of a day-toGrossart, Peter Birch, David Ross and Penny Hughes are day nature.
The Committee meets to review the Groups interim and annual financial statements before their submission to the Relations with shareholders Board, to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, accounting policies and procedures The Company encourages two-way communication with both and financial reporting, and otherwise as necessary.
The Group its institutional and private investors and responds quickly to has an internal audit function to enhance the rolling programme all queries received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and of review and improvement to the Groups internal controls.
the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting all The Committee is considering the most appropriate process directors, including Committee chairmen, are available for by which it may review and monitor the external auditors questions.
Twice a year the Director of Corporate independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit Communications, who runs the Companys investor relations process.
The Board has accepted the Committees programme, produces a formal report for the Board giving recommendation on a policy on the engagement of the external details of comment and feedback received from analysts and auditors to supply non-audit services.
He is present during the Board discussion of this report.
The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external auditors and the internal auditors, as appropriate, The Chairman has written to the 26 largest institutional attend meetings of the Committee.
investors in the Company making it clear that he is available to see them to discuss any issues that they may wish to raise.
The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are published on the Companys website.
Accountability and audit Operating and financial review Remuneration Committee Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Penny Hughes.
position in the Chief Executives statement page 10, review of Sir Victor Blank, Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart, David Ross Group activities pages 14 to 27 and financial review pages 28 and David Marlow are also members.
The Committee meets to 31, together with the Directors Report pages 53 and 54, as required during the year to review the Companys general the Board seeks to present a clear and balanced assessment of policy on executive remuneration, the application of the policy the Groups position and prospects.
The directors responsibility to the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and for the financial statements is described on page 53. to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Internal control Functional reporting a number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, internal audit and risk Internal financial control management, litigation, IT strategy and development, The directors are responsible for the Companys established environmental issues and insurance, are dealt with centrally.
system of internal financial control.
No system of internal Each of these functions reports to the Board on a regular financial control can provide absolute assurance against basis, through the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director material misstatement or loss.
Such a system is designed to or Company Secretary, as appropriate.
The treasury function provide the directors with reasonable assurance that problems operates within the terms of clearly defined policy are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The policy statements exist to ensure that the The key procedures that have been established and designed Group is not exposed to any unnecessary risk and that there to provide effective internal financial control are: is appropriate hedging against foreign currency and interest rate risks.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from Management and organisational structure the existing management, the internal audit department and the external organisational structure is considered appropriate to the size auditors to provide reasonable assurance that control of the Group.
This clearly identifies levels of delegated procedures are in place and are being followed.
Formal responsibility to operational management.
The performance procedures have been established for instituting appropriate of senior management is regularly evaluated and individual action to correct weaknesses identified from the above employees responsibilities are clearly defined and reports.
communicated Risk management Financial reporting part of the comprehensive management An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing reporting discipline involves the preparation of detailed the significant risks faced by the Group has remained in place annual budgets by all operating units.
These budgets are throughout the financial year and up to the approval date of the reviewed by the executive management and are ultimately annual report and accounts.
The process is subject to regular summarised and submitted to the Board for approval.
review by the Board directly and via the Audit Committee.
Weekly revenue and profit returns are received from all This accords with the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control operating units followed by monthly management accounts, for Directors.
which are prepared promptly and reported against the approved budget.
Consolidated monthly management Although the Boards overall responsibility for internal control is accounts are prepared, including detailed profit analysis recognised, the positive contribution made by senior with comparisons to budget, latest forecasts, prior year and management to the establishment and ongoing development consensus market opinion, cash flow statement and of risk management within the Group is acknowledged.
treasury report including comparison to the Groups financial covenants, providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial and other information to the Board.
Revised profit control, the Board has taken into consideration a number of key and cash flow forecasts for the current year are prepared elements which include: financial and investment controls: and submitted to the Board at quarterly intervals during the management reporting: and the various review, steering, policy year and Board committees.
Investment appraisal the Group has a clearly defined The following illustrate how the risk management process and framework for capital expenditure which is controlled the system of internal control operated during the 52-week centrally.
Appropriate authorisation levels and limits beyond period ended 28 December 2003: which such expenditure requires the prior approval of the Capital Expenditure Committee, chaired by the Chief Group internal audit during the year the structure of the Executive, or the Group Finance Director or, in certain Internal Audit department was changed.
A very experienced circumstances, the Board, are clearly set.
There is a Head of Internal Audit was recruited.
She was previously prescribed format for capital expenditure applications which Head of Internal Audit at Orange and prior to that Audit places a high emphasis on the overall Group strategy or Practice Director at NatWest Group.
She is reviewing all logic for the expenditure, and demands a comprehensive aspects of the Internal Audit role and Risk Management and sound financial representation of the business case processes.
The Audit Committee have adopted a new being put forward.
All significant corporate acquisitions or Internal Audit Charter investments are controlled by the Board or a Board subcommittee and are subject to detailed investment appraisal and performance of due diligence procedures prior to approval by the Board Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 38 39 Audit Committee the role of the Audit Committee includes Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk the review, update and approval of the annual internal audit management further into the operations of the business and to plan: provision of direction to the internal audit function, deal with areas of improvement which come to managements external auditors and management in the review of internal and the Boards attention.
The Groups systems of internal controls: alerting the Board to any emerging issues: and control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk consideration of the draft papers prepared for the annual of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide review of effectiveness of the risk management procedures reasonable and not absolute assurance against material adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to the misstatement or loss.
Board for approval Further relevant information is included in the Corporate Social Risk Management Group the duties formerly performed by Responsibility Review, published on pages 40 to 45. the Risk Management Group have been passed up to the Executive Committee.
The Secretary and Group Legal Corporate Governance compliance statement Director has co-ordinated the Risk Management activities of The Company has complied throughout the financial year with the Committee, working closely with members of the Internal the provisions set out in section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code.
Audit team Going concern basis Divisional and Group functional key risks to enable consistent and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation and After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, management of significant Group risks, the key risks for the at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a Group functions and major operational divisions of the reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources business have been identified and, going forward, will to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
constitute the basis for a revised reporting process For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Year-end compliance reporting a formal process exists for year-end risk management compliance reporting, requiring senior operating company, divisional and Group executive management to confirm compliance with Board policies on internal control and adherence to the risk management process outlined by the Board in March 2000 and updated in October 2000.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required of each and every Board member.
Table of attendance Audit Remuneration Main Board AGM Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 9143 Sly Bailey 81 Peter Birch 714 Sir Victor Blank 91 3 Philip Graf 1 Sir Angus Grossart 8141 Roger Harrison 31 2 Mark Haysom 2 Penny Hughes 7113 David Marlow 9141 Stephen Parker 91 Vijay Vaghela 6 Paul Vickers 91 This table reflects the fact that Sly Bailey, Vijay Vaghela, Philip Graf and Roger Harrison served as directors for part of the year only and that membership of Board committees was changed in November.
