12550 Tullow R&A03 p30-p72 aw 5 27 04 2:49 PM Page 33 Corporate Governance Year Ended 31st December 2003 Application of Combined Code Principles The Directors are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and this statement describes how the Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained within the 1998 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined Code the New Code.
The New Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 1st November 2003 and thus formally applies to the Company for the financial year ending 31st December 2004.
The Board, which is committed to the implementation of the New Code, has carried out a review of the Companys corporate governance practices.
A number of the new recommendations have already been implemented and are set out below.
The Company will report on its compliance with the New Code in next years annual report.
Compliance with Combined Code provisions The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial year under review.
Board of Directors The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Broadly, the Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and performance of the business.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr R. Courtney.
In this role he is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Board members are set out on pages 6 and 7.
The Board considers each of the current Non-Executive Directors to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board recognises that Mr R. Courtneys independence may be called into question given that he has served on the Board since 1993.
Nevertheless, the Board considers that his independence is not prejudiced or compromised as a result of this factor and that he brings a wealth of relevant experience and makes an invaluable contribution to board discussions.
In recognition that the New Code requires a non-executive director who has served for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election, Mr R. Courtney will henceforth be proposed for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board also recognises that Mr E. Maleki, who served as a Director during 2003 and retired in April 2004, did not meet the independence criteria set out in the New Code as a result of his significant shareholding in the Company.
The composition of the Board and its principal Committees is being reviewed in light of the provisions of the New Code and the Nominations Committee will be making recommendations to the Board in due course.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and met seven times in 2003.
All Directors were in attendance at each of those meetings other than Mr G. Martin and Ms C. Spottiswoode, who were absent from one meeting each, and Mr R. Courtney who was absent from two meetings.
All necessary information is supplied to the Directors on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All members of the Board receive appropriate ongoing training in respect of their obligations and duties as Directors and it is the Companys practice to provide induction to newly appointed directors.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as and when required.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for consideration by the Board which includes the Groups overall strategy, major capital expenditure projects and financial policy.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board delegates authority for the management of the business primarily to the Chief Executive and certain other matters are delegated to the principal Board Committees, namely the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each of which are described in more detail below.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 33 12550 Tullow R&A03 p30-p72 aw 5 27 04 2:49 PM Page 34 Corporate Governance continued Under the New Code, the Board is required each year to carry out a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board is currently considering the best means of conducting such an evaluation with a view to it being carried out during 2004.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors must retire and may submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General meeting AGM each year, together with all new Directors appointed since the previous AGM.
In addition, the Articles state that all Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Committees The Board has established the following principal Committees each of which has written terms of reference setting out its authority and duties.
The terms of reference of the Committees are currently being reviewed in light of the requirements of the New Code.
Audit Committee The membership of this Committee currently comprises Mr R. Courtney Chairman, Mr S. McTiernan and Ms C. Spottiswoode.
The Board considers that each of the members has the requisite skills and attributes to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities.
In compliance with the requirements of the New Code, Mr P. Plunkett, as the Companys Chairman, resigned from the Committee in April 2004.
Mr E. Maleki ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement from the Board in April 2004.
The Committee met three times during the financial year to review the interim and annual financial statements and the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures.
There was full attendance by Committee members at each of those meetings.
The Committee is responsible for the appointment of the external auditors, for monitoring the auditors independence and for reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the audit.
The Chief Financial Officer and a representative of the external auditors normally attend meetings.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee, which met twice during 2003, are Mr P. Plunkett Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Mr E. Maleki was also a member of this Committee throughout the year.
There was full attendance by Committee members at each of the Committee meetings.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and senior employees and the provision of share based incentive plans.
A fuller description of this Committees responsibilities is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 43.
Nominations Committee The current members of the Nominations Committee, which meets as and when required, are Mr P. Plunkett Chairman, Mr A. Heavey, Mr R. Courtney, Mr S. McTiernan appointed to the Committee in March 2004 and Ms C. Spottiswoode also appointed March 2004.
The Committee considers the composition of the Board and makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors as well as making recommendations to the Board on succession planning.
The Committee did not meet during 2003, as board composition during the year was considered by the Board as a whole, but has met both formally and informally in 2004.
34 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 12550 Tullow R&A03 p30-p72 aw 5 27 04 2:49 PM Page 35 Shareholder Relations Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well as general presentations at the time of the release of the annual and interim results.
The Group issues its results promptly to individual shareholders and also publishes them on the Companys website www.
Regular updates to record news in relation to the Company and the status of exploration and development programmes are also included on the Companys website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by e-mail by sending an e-mail to request@tullowoil.
The Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders to discuss any issues and gain an understanding of any concerns in relation to the Companys governance and strategy.
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and will attend if requested to do so.
A business presentation is provided at the AGM and afterwards individual shareholders are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman and the Board.
In addition, the Board is committed to maintaining strong links with its Irish shareholder base and holds a business presentation in Ireland on the day following the AGM, to allow these shareholders similar access to the Board.
Internal Controls In September 1999, the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code was published.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups and Companys systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
The Groups internal control procedures include Board, technical and financial approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Directors, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, consider that the system of internal control operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date the financial statements were signed.
In addition, the Audit Committee has reviewed the necessity for the establishment of an internal audit function but considers that, given the size of the Group, the close involvement of joint venture partners in the exploration and drilling process, the strengths of its systems and the close involvement of senior management, no requirement currently exists for the implementation of such a function.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the forseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 35
