Market review The Middle East continues to be the centre of the market for large-scale desalination projects, although a rapid increase in demand combined with shortage of naturally occurring water, has resulted in a growing level of activity in other developed areas of the world, such as the Americas and Australia.
The industrial wastewater treatment market is increasingly important, as more intensive and widespread regulation is introduced to reduce the environmental impact of industrial processes or make wastewater available for re-use.
Additionally, plant operators are beginning to appreciate the potential of wastewater treatment to recover salts or other by-products with a market value.
It is generally recognised that both the desalination and wastewater markets will see an average growth rate of 10% or more each year for the foreseeable future and the market will prove attractive to a number of players.
Technas task, therefore, is to consolidate and focus on retaining and improving our position as a world leader in desalination and to become a major international contractor in industrial wastewater treatment.
We currently occupy the leading position in the niche market for offshore membrane-based sulphate removal plant.
This market is dependant on the level of new platform investment, but a number of complementary technologies are under development in an effort to broaden our scope of supply and move further ahead of the competition.
Three of our markets are inherently cyclical: these are the defence market, which is subject to political as well as economic cycles, the nuclear market and the market for marine-based systems for gas storage and handling, which is dependant on the level of orders for new build or refurbishment of gas carrying ships.
Our strategies to balance the cyclical nature of these markets include an increased focus on ongoing service contracts, broadening the application of our technical expertise into growth areas such as nuclear waste handling and storage, and leveraging the Weir Group presence to improve our geographical footprint.
Close customer relationships are essential in all these markets and both Weir Strachan & Henshaw and Weir LGE have won business even in relatively quiet years for the global market.
We are also taking steps to enhance LGEs presence in the onshore LPG storage market and exploring alternative markets to reduce dependency on the marine LPG market.
Techna is also developing a strategy for turbine inlet air cooling plants based on Weir Entropies chiller technology, giving gas turbine operators an alternative means of improving plant efficiency to purchasing additional turbines.
There is a large potential market for such technology in the United States, Europe and the Middle East and our strategy for this area will develop in 2004.
