Market review Our Services Divisions principal markets are power, oil and gas, and water and wastewater treatment.
We are also active in the marine and naval sectors and in the more loosely defined general industry market where steel, sugar and paper production segments provide traditional work in pump and turbomachinery repair.
The power market is fundamentally related to the installed capacity of power generation, which is forecast to continue to grow worldwide.
The UK market in fossil and nuclear-fuelled stations is affected by deregulation.
Our business derives from the maintenance of key items of plant and we expect to maintain and grow our leadership position.
Power market activity in our Canadian and Australian businesses remains quite strong and we are well placed to build upon our already strong customer relationships in these areas.
There is currently high activity in the Middle East with complete power station rehabilitation programmes where our participation is strengthened by much of the installed pump capacity supplied originally by Weir Group companies.
We continue to enjoy a major share of UK hydro-electric rehabilitation projects.
Working with our alliance partners, VA Tech, we were awarded four major upgrade projects in 2003.
There is a similarly attractive market in North America and work is underway to export our UK expertise, in collaboration with VA Tech, to our Canadian operation.
The oil and gas and downstream refining industries continue to provide us with significant business in the UK, Canada and the Middle East.
The latter is seeing considerable post conflict rehabilitation work and our service centres in the UAE and Kuwait are actively supporting this.
We maintain our leadership position in UK offshore equipment maintenance where present contract arrangements favour our value added approach to maintenance management.
Contracts are generally incentive driven and include inventory management and other logistical services.
Our strategy is to migrate this expertise to realise similar opportunities across our global service business.
Our Middle East centres hold American Petroleum Institute accreditation for the maintenance of a wide range of oil field related equipment which continues to provide solid order input to our facilities in the region.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Techna Division: The specialist engineering design division of the Group, responsible for the design and management of complex engineering projects.
Order input: 1 Desalination, Water Treatment, Sulphate Removal and Liquid Gas Storage 80 60 60.5m 1 Up 97.6% 40 2 2 Defence & Nuclear 1 2 20 Paul Capell Peter Syme 40.0m Divisional Managing Director Defence & Nuclear Chairman 2002 2003 Up 52.0% Operational review Weir Techna Division includes those businesses where turnover is derived from design and management of large-scale capital project work.
The divisions activities cover five principal business segments: desalination and water treatment, sulphate removal processes, nuclear, defence and liquid gas storage.
The divisions turnover reduced 33% to 72.9m in 2003 2002: 109.1m, reducing profits to 785k against 5.4m in 2002.
On a positive note the 2003 input increased 77% to 100.5m in 2003 2002: 57.0m, with good quality orders booked in our oil related, water treatment, nuclear and liquid gas businesses.
Desalination and Water Treatment, Sulphate Removal and Liquid Gas Storage The collective turnover of our desalination and water treatment, sulphate removal and liquid gas storage businesses reduced 12.2m to 37.7m due to previously advised delays in placement of large-scale orders in 2001 and 2002.
The divisions focus on mid-sized desalination projects and investment in new technologies in sulphate removal and liquid gas storage was rewarded with an almost doubling of order input from these activities to 60.5m in 2003 against 30.6m in 2002.
These project awards provide realistic grounds for short-term improvement in the divisions financial performance.
Defence and Nuclear Turnover from our defence and nuclear businesses fell 24.0m to 35.2m in 2003 2002: 59.2m, with a resultant decline in profits.
Previously reported delays in large-scale UK contracts continue to affect the financial performance of our defence business.
Actions have been taken to focus more attention on the growing defence service support market, which will reduce the overhead dedicated to the larger scale project work.
Peter Syme, previously responsible for building the Services business, has been assigned the task of tracking these changes and we are confident of improved performance from this activity in 2004.
Our nuclear activities were also restructured in 2003 to report operationally through the Services structure and capitalise on the significant position the Group has in the power generation market.
The results of these activities have been encouraging with the award of longterm maintenance agreements secured with prominent UK power providers.
Our investment in nuclear waste storage and handling technologies and the increasing need for global waste storage solutions provide an exciting avenue for future growth.
18 Operational Review: Techna Division Desalination Water Treatment Gas storage and handling Zero liquid discharge plant Thermal processes South Africa Defence and Nuclear Brine effluent treatment installation process was developed which recovered four for Sasol Secunda commercial products, in addition to the water, resulting in a true zero effluent discharge plant.
Initially Weir Envig was requested to design and bid on a plant to recover water from boiler feed In addition to neutralising the environmental water effluent and produce solid waste for impact, there is immediate economic benefit to landfill dumping.
The clients projected the customer as the recovered water is sent back dumping costs for solid waste produced were in to the boilers for re-use, while three categories of the region of $6m p. a. but the long term recovered sulphate salts are sold to the fertiliser viability of dumping was considered risky.
industry producing a revenue stream to offset plant operating costs.
Recovered sodium Weir Envig conducted a series of laboratory and chloride is retained and used by Sasol.
pilot plant trials to recover products from the effluent and reduce dumping costs and a Core skills are key to building market share Key achievements Weir Techna Division is a full service business, working with customers Weir Westgarth were awarded a 16m contract from Kindasa Water Services from feasibility studies through to plant operation and providing ongoing to supply a seawater reverse osmosis plant in what will be the largest support and commitment to each customer.
Excellence in our core areas privately financed desalination plant in Saudi Arabia.
of expertise is the key to our leadership position.
Weir Entropie secured an order from Sharjah Electricity and Water Authority As the only organisation in the world able to provide a full range of for a 2m gallon per day multiple effect desalination plant for the city of desalination technologies, Techna can offer the best application to suit Kalba, UAE.
Weir Westgarth invented the multistage flash evaporation Weir Envig secured contracts for the design and construction of a brine process in the early 1950s and has been at the forefront of its development evaporator for the Anglo Platinum mine and a reverse osmosis plant for the ever since.
We also have the capability to deliver membrane-based reverse Anglo American mine, in South Africa, along with a contract to supply five skidosmosis desalination plant and multiple effect distillation desalination, mounted reverse osmosis desalination plants to produce potable water in Libya.
Weir Westgarth won a 12.3m project to supply sulphate removal plant to a Technas expertise in thermal processes includes a variety of applications new oil platform on the Buzzard field in the UK North Sea.
using steam, including heat pumps, process evaporators and dryers.
Our expertise in chiller technology has been focused recently on providing Design and installation by Weir Westgarth of sulphate removal plant for a absorption and compression chillers for gas turbine inlet air cooling floating drilling unit operated by SBM Systems Inc. off the coast of Brazil.
applications and we see a developing market for such equipment as a Weir Envig completed work on a 120 tons per hour calcium lignosulphate means of increasing turbine efficiency.
concentrator at the Sappi Saichor Lignotech plant in South Africa.
Techna is recognised as the oil industrys leading specialist in offshore Weir LGE won contracts totalling over 9m for two repeat gas plant sets for sulphate removal technology.
We have secured recent success in the UK the fide Poli shipyard in Italy and for two 60,000 cubic metres LPG plant sets North Sea and expect a number of projects in other oil producing regions for Hydro Agri.
We are also a provider of specialist aftercare services, optimising through-life operating performance.
Weir Strachan & Henshaw continues to develop its services support business with sizeable contracts in electronics and aviation industries.
When combined, our technologies can deliver a range of industrial wastewater treatment solutions, with expertise available in thermal and Nuclear handling businesses signed a number of agreements with prominent membrane processes, physical chemical processes, biological treatment UK power providers for long-term maintenance and the design and and zero liquid discharge systems.
These systems can reduce spending on commission of waste-handling stores.
the disposal of liquid waste streams, often providing the client with a potential source of revenue from recovered, recycled and resaleable byCompetitive advantage products.
Our competitive advantage in these diverse areas is driven by the ability of Weir LGE Process designs and builds plants for the processing, storage and dedicated technical specialists to adapt their expertise to provide best in handling of gases for marine and onshore applications.
Weir is recognised class solutions at every stage of project development.
in the marine industry in particular as a world leader, with much of our business from repeat customers.
The international contracting environment in which we operate demands continuous product improvement and lower project costs.
We meet this Weir Strachan & Henshaw is the UK Ministry of Defences design authority challenge by allocating a high priority to technical development and, for all in-service submarine weapon handling and discharge systems and secondly, by developing close relationships with key customers and provides advanced munitions handling systems for naval clients in several industry partners.
We have strong relationships with clients and prime contractors, from first concept through to commissioning and increasingly We are continually improving the efficiency of our existing products, developing provide ongoing maintenance and safety services.
Our recognised nuclear new products and reducing project costs wherever possible, without handling and decommissioning expertise includes submarine refuelling compromising our renowned quality standards and customer commitment systems and the latest nuclear waste storage technologies.
and have applied for a number of patents to safeguard intellectual property such as our pre-treatment systems for sulphate removal plant.
Our divisional sales network has been strengthened and refocused during the year and is building key relationships in all areas.
Where Techna has no significant presence of its own, links have been made through the global Weir network to maximise available business opportunities, notably the partnership between Techna and the Services Division in Australia.
