Corporate governance Whitbread is committed to high standards of corporate The company has a formal procedure for the 1 governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
appointment of directors by means of the Nomination This report sets out how the principles set out in the Code Committee see below.
New directors stand for have been applied.
re-election at the AGM following their appointment.
Every director is required to retire by rotation, and may The board continues to monitor recent developments stand for re-election if nominated by the committee, at in corporate governance, including the Higgs review on least every third year.
All new appointments of nonthe role of non-executives and the Smith report on audit executive directors are for an initial fixed term of three committees, and to review the companys performance and years.
The board has recently approved a guideline that activities with these in mind.
The board will utilise non-executive directors should normally be expected recommendations ahead of statutory or regulatory to serve two three-year terms, although a longer term implementation where it believes that these offer ways may be appropriate.
An induction to the companys of improving board effectiveness or business performance.
business and training is available for all directors on The company has complied with the provisions set out appointment.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year The board meets at least 11 times a year and has a with the exception of certain provisions relating to formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, directors service contracts and the appointment of which include annual and interim results, the group a senior non-executive independent director, although business plan, treasury policy and major acquisitions such an appointment has now been made.
Directors are given timely and exceptions are explained in the report below and appropriate information for each board meeting, in the Remuneration report.
including monthly financial and trading reports.
Shareholder relations A number of board meetings take place at different The company recognises the importance of dialogue with Whitbread locations.
To increase further the directors both institutional and private shareholders.
Institutional knowledge of the business, other visits to Whitbread shareholders, fund managers and analysts are briefed at sites are arranged.
The company secretary ensures that regular meetings and presentations.
In 2002 3 over 100 the board is briefed on legal and regulatory issues, such meetings were held with institutional shareholders, either as health and safety.
one to one or as part of a larger grouping, both in the UK The performance of the board is appraised annually and abroad.
The chairman, executive directors, and the by the chairman, in consultation with each director.
corporate affairs director all play an active part in these Reviews will include individual evaluation of directors meetings.
As an example, recent meetings have focused and their training and development needs.
Nonon detailed questions on delivery of financial targets, executives will in future meet as a group with the growth prospects for the major brands, differentiation of chairman at least once a year.
The chief executive and the Whitbread brands and prospects for the UK economy finance director hold a performance review meeting and consumer confidence in 2003.
The board also receives with each operating division board on a regular basis.
regular reports on share price performance, movements in institutional holdings and the response by institutions The non-executive directors bring to the board to the communications programme.
considerable knowledge and experience from other areas of business and public life.
The board considers Annual and interim results presentations are webcast that all of the non-executives are independent and live so that all shareholders can receive the same endorses the definition of independence annexed to information at the same time.
The companys website the Higgs review.
The board has recently appointed Rod provides comprehensive information for private Kent as the senior independent non-executive director.
shareholders and receives over half a million hits a year.
Board committees Private shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the board at the AGM, and at all other The board has delegated authority to the following times by e-mailing or writing to the company.
Any committees on specific matters, which are set out in shareholder may contact the chairman or chief a written constitution and terms of reference for each executive to raise any issue, or may raise any such issue committee.
with one or all of the non-executive directors of the The Audit Committee reviews the companys internal company.
The company secretary can facilitate any controls and ensures that the financial information such communication if requested.
supplied to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the companys position.
It is responsible for reviewing The board the internal audit programme and major findings In the year under review the board consisted of the of audit reviews.
It also advises the board on the chairman, five independent non-executive directors appointment of the external auditors and reviews their and five executive directors.
There is a clear division independence, scope of work and fees.
of responsibility between the chairman, who leads the board, and the chief executive, who is responsible The committee reviews the half-year financial for the running of the business.
statements, annual accounts and accompanying 1 The principles of good governance and code of best practise page 30 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 3 appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Corporate governance reports to shareholders before their submission to the 2002 3 financial year.
The process is regularly the board.
The committee members are David Turner reviewed by the board and accords with the internal chairman, Prue Leith, Rod Kent and Lord Williamson, control guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
all independent non-executive directors, and Sir John Key elements of the groups risk management and Banham.
The committee meets three times a year, internal control system include: with the finance director and other officers also attending.
It also meets with the auditors at least the formulation, evaluation and annual approval annually, without an executive director present.
by the board of business plans and budgets.
Actual results are reported monthly against budget and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the previous years figures.
Key risks are identified determining broad policy for the remuneration and action plans prepared accordingly: of the executive directors and members of the Group Executive and for determining their entire individual the production by each business of an annual risks remuneration packages.
The committee takes advice and controls matrix, covering major risks and plans from remuneration consultants Towers Perrin.
to mitigate against those risks.
These matrices are considered by the Group Executive and the The report on directors remuneration on pages 32 to 40 Audit Committee: gives full details of the companys policy on executive remuneration and of individual directors remuneration a quarterly review by the Group Executive and the packages.
Throughout the financial year ended 1 March board of changes in the major risks facing the group 2003 the company complied with the provisions on and development of the appropriate action plans: the design of performance related remuneration as the Treasury Committee, which reviews treasury set out in Schedule A of the Combined Code and the activities monthly.
The committee is chaired by the Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance finance director.
Treasury activities are conducted in with Schedule B of the Code.
accordance with detailed procedures and mandates: The committee meets at least twice a year and details the consideration of risks and the appropriate action of its membership can be found in the Remuneration plans, when appraising and approving all major report on page 32. capital and revenue projects and change programmes.
The Nomination Committee makes recommendations A post completion review of each major project to the board for appointment and re-election of is undertaken: directors, both executive and non-executive.
The financial policies, controls and procedures manuals, committee uses external recruitment consultants which are regularly reviewed and updated: where appropriate.
No director is involved in any decision about his or her own re-appointment.
the limits of authority, which are prescribed for employees.
The groups organisational structure The committee members are Sir John Banham allows the appropriate segregation of tasks: chairman, David Thomas together with Charles Gurassa, Prue Leith, Rod Kent, David Turner and Lord the groups Code of Business Ethics, which is briefed Williamson all of whom are independent nonannually to employees: executive directors.
the internal audit function, which reports on the The board has delegated authority to the General effectiveness of operational and financial controls Purposes Committee to deal with business of a routine across the group.
The Audit Committee regularly nature and with other specific matters delegated to it by reviews the major findings from both internal and the board.
The committee is made up of at least two external audit.
directors designated by the board and meets as required.
The board has carried out a specific assessment of In addition to the above, the Group Executive meets the groups system of internal control for the purpose monthly and deals with the day-to-day management of this annual report.
The Group Executive and Audit of the company.
It comprises the executive directors, Committees have assisted the board in discharging Angie Risley human resources director and these responsibilities.
Tim Hammond corporate development director.
Code of business ethics Internal control The company takes the view that corporate governance The board is responsible for the groups system of is not a matter for the board or its committees alone internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such and has developed a Code of Business Ethics, which is a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate briefed annually to employees.
This covers dealings the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can with customers, suppliers and government officials: only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance safeguarding the companys assets: keeping accurate against material misstatement or loss.
and reliable records: and avoiding conflicts of interest.
Its principal message is that all employees must The board has established an ongoing process for observe a code of conduct based on honesty, integrity identifying, evaluating and managing the groups and fair dealing.
This process was in place throughout page 31
