Statement on Corporate Governance For the period the Group was required to The new Combined Code requires the Chairman Statement about applying the comply with the Combined Code on Corporate to hold meetings with the non executive principles of Good Governance Governance issued in June 1998 Hampel Code.
directors without the executive directors being present.
Although this has previously been The Board conducted informally, during 2004 the Statement of compliance with the Appointments to the Board are the Chairman will formalise the procedure and hold Hampel Code responsibility of the full Board, on the such meetings on a regular basis.
The directors believe the Group complied with recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
these requirements except as noted below.
All directors submit themselves for re-election Similarly, beginning in 2004, the Senior by rotation with at least one-third of the Independent Non Executive Director will meet The independent non executive directors directors retiring each year.
The Board may also at least annually with the non executive during part of the year constituted half, appoint a person who is willing to act as a directors without the Chairman being present rather than a majority of non executive director, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an to appraise the Chairmans performance and on directors on the Board.
The independent non additional director, such appointment being such other occasions as are deemed executive directors were Messrs. Scott, Allvey only effective until the next Annual General appropriate.
In reviewing the performance of and Gibson.
The remaining non executive Meeting.
the Chairman, account will be taken of the directors were Messrs. Mackenzie and Chotai views of the executive directors.
who resigned on 29 April 2003 and The Board meets eleven times a year and Mr Brown who retired on 31 December operates within a formal schedule of matters The Board receives detailed reports from 2003. reserved to the Board with other powers executive management on the performance of delegated to various levels of senior the Group at monthly Board meetings and Mr Brown as Non Executive Chairman was management.
The schedule of matters reserved other information as necessary.
The Board also prior to his retirement not considered to be to the Board and delegated authorities is obtains advice from professional advisers as independent as he was previously Chief reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
This information enables Executive of the Group.
Although not Matters reserved to the Board include the the Board to discharge its duties.
considered independent, Mr Brown was a appointment or removal of the Chairman, Chief member of the Remuneration Committee On joining the Board directors receive a formal Executive or Group Finance Director: approval during the period.
The independent non induction and on an on-going basis are of the Groups annual budget and corporate executive directors considered that his encouraged to update their skills and plan: approval of capital investment projects: guidance as a member of the Remuneration knowledge.
setting dividend policy: and approval of Committee was invaluable in assessing the material contracts.
The terms and conditions of appointment of performance of the executive directors and non executive directors are available to other members of senior management and The authority delegated to senior management shareholders for inspection at the Groups therefore in correctly determining their provides a practical framework to executive registered office during normal business hours remuneration.
management, which seeks to achieve the dual and at the Annual General Meeting for objectives of maintaining effective financial and 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the operational controls whilst providing sufficient Introduction of the revised meeting.
flexibility to manage the business.
Examples of Combined Code areas of such delegated authority include the The table on the opposite page sets out In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council release of capital expenditure against approved individual directors attendance at Board and issued a revised Combined Code on Corporate budgets: treasury activity within approved Committee meetings.
Governance 2003 FRC Code that is applicable limits: payroll processing: property transactions: to reporting periods which started on or after LBO development activities: the setting of bet Chairman and Chief Executive 1 November 2003.
The Group will seek to acceptance limits: and routine transaction comply with the requirements of the 2003 FRC There is a clear division of responsibilities processing.
between the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board comprises individuals with wide whereby the Chairman is responsible for the business experience of various sectors of running of the Board, and the Chief Executive industry.
They have access to all information has executive responsibility for the running of relating to the Group, the advice and services of the business.
No one individual has unfettered the Group Company Secretary, and, as required, powers of decision making.
external advice at the expense of the Group.
20 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 2003 Board Committee meetings Board Nomination Remuneration Audit meetings Committee Committee Committee Meetings held 11245 Meetings attended David Harding 11 Tom Singer 10 John Brown 10 2 3 Charles Scott 9225 David Allvey 9215 Barry Gibson 10243 1 Yagnish Chotai 42 1 Donald Mackenzie 3 Note: 1 Resigned 29 April, 2003 Mr Scott as the new Non Executive Chairman Messrs. Allvey and Gibson to be considered at As a matter of routine, the Board receives a satisfies the independence criteria detailed in the next Annual General Meeting.
monthly report from Citigroup on issues provision A.
relating to recent share price performance, trading activity and institutional investor Relations with shareholders Mr Scott, prior to his appointment as Non sentiment.
The Board remains committed to maintaining Executive Chairman, disclosed other significant good relationships with both institutional and commitments to the Board and these are The Board regards the Annual General Meeting private shareholders.
There continues to be a detailed elsewhere in the directors as an important opportunity to communicate regular dialogue with institutional biographical details at page 12. directly with all shareholders.
Board members, shareholders, although care is exercised to including the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Additionally, arrangements are in hand to ensure that any price-sensitive information is Nomination and Audit Committees, will attend ensure that future non executive directors released at the same time to all shareholders, the meeting and are available to answer other significant commitments are disclosed to in accordance with the requirements of both questions.
In order that shareholders are aware the Board prior to appointment, and for the the Financial Services Authority and London of the other shareholders voting intentions, the Board to be informed of subsequent changes.
details of proxy votes will be announced at the Annual General Meeting.
The process of performance evaluation of the Mr Gibson as the Senior Independent Non Board, its committees and individual directors Executive Director is available to shareholders has been undertaken and involved the Board committees if they have concerns that have not or cannot distribution of self-assessment questionnaires be addressed through the Chairman, Chief The Remuneration Committee, the Nomination followed by one-to-one performance evaluation Executive or Group Finance Director.
Mr Allvey Committee and the Audit Committee are meetings between the Chairman and each as the remaining non executive director is also standing committees of the Board.
The Board has also available to attend meetings with major The terms of reference of the Committees, discussed issues relating to its composition and shareholders on request.
The Group also including their objectives and the authority collective and individual performance.
The obtains feedback from its broker, Citigroup, on delegated to them by the Board, are available other non executive directors will conduct a the views of institutional investors on a nonupon request or via the Groups investor formal evaluation of the Chairman at the end of attributed basis.
Mr Gibson does not currently relations website www.
2004 once Mr Scott has completed a full year as attend meetings with major shareholders on Chairman.
the basis that the Chief Executive Officer and Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director communicate the issues The Board has explained the reasons why it and concerns of major shareholders to the The role and operation of the Remuneration believes each director should be re-elected in Board.
Committee is set out in the Directors the notes to the resolutions to re-elect Remuneration Report on pages 15 to 19.
The 21 Committee met on four occasions during the view of Mr Scotts prior experience of Audit not impair the external auditors independence period.
Committee matters he is able to make a or objectivity taking into consideration all significant contribution to the effective relevant factors.
Nomination Committee Internal control The Nomination Committee is chaired by The Committee met five times during the period Mr Scott and includes Messrs. Allvey and The Board has overall responsibility for the and its principal functions are to: Gibson.
The Nomination Committees principal Groups internal control systems and for Review and advise the Board on the Groups function is to carry out a formal selection monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation interim and annual financial statements, its process for executive and non executive and maintenance of the internal control accounting policies and on the controls directors and subsequently to propose to the systems are the responsibility of the executive operating over its financial and business Board any new appointments.
The Chairman directors and senior management, and are risks: was appointed following a comprehensive subject to periodic review that is documented.
review of external and internal candidates Internal Audit maintains a database recording Review the nature and scope of the work to involving the use of an external search the system of internal controls in every division be performed by the external and internal consultant.
Appropriate candidates were or department throughout the Group.
The auditors, the result of that work and interviewed individually by Committee performance of selected internal control managements response: and members.
Following the Nomination systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committees recommendation the Board Meet with the executive directors and Committee.
approved the appointment of Mr Scott.
management, as well as privately with both The Board monitors the process by which external and internal auditors.
The Chairman As part of its function, it considers the critical risks to the business are identified, of the Audit Committee reports the outcome composition of the Board, the demands made evaluated and managed.
This process is of meetings to the Board.
on the Board and its committees and the consistent with the Turnbull guidance and has requirements of good corporate governance.
The Committee has established a number of been in place for the period under review and The Committee meets as necessary but at least procedures to monitor and review the up to the date of approval of the Annual Report annually before or after regular meetings of the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
Board, to consider proposals for Board include assessing the quality of assurance over The Board assesses the effectiveness of internal appointments.
the Groups system of internal controls provided control systems on the basis of: by Internal Audit, ensuring that Internal Audit In 2004, the Committee will formalise the 2003 complies with the Institute of Internal Auditors Established procedures, including those FRC Code requirement to evaluate the balance Standards for the Professional Practice of already described, which are in place to of skills, knowledge and experience on the Internal Auditing, and evaluating the functions manage perceived risks: Board.
The Chief Executive and Nomination contribution to good corporate governance.
Committee oversee the policies for employee Regular reports by management to the Audit selection, advancement and development, and A formalised Group policy and procedure for Committee on the adequacy and have direct involvement in senior management staff to raise issues regarding possible effectiveness of internal control systems and appointments.
Succession planning and improprieties in matters of financial reporting significant control issues: contingency arrangements operate for senior or other matters has been established.
The continuous Group-wide process for management and have been reviewed by the The Group operates a policy, established and formally identifying, evaluating and Board.
monitored by the Audit Committee, in relation managing the significant risks to the to the provision of non audit services by achievement of the Groups objectives: and Audit Committee Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups auditors, so The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Allvey Presentations on the results of internal as to safeguard auditor objectivity and and includes Messrs. Scott and Gibson.
The audits and work undertaken by other independence.
The policy states that work Board acknowledges that following Mr Scotts departments to the Audit Committee.
costing in excess of 25,000 should be appointment as Chairman of the Board on 1 approved by the Audit Committee.
The approval The Groups internal control systems are January 2004, his continuing membership of of such non audit services is included in the designed to reduce, rather than eliminate, the the Audit Committee is not in accordance with Audit Committees terms of reference.
The Audit risk of failure to meet business objectives, and the Smith Guidance accompanying the 2003 Committee, when approving non audit services, can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, FRC Code.
However, the Board considers that in ensures that the provision of such services does 22 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 assurance against material misstatement or the business and assesses the likelihood of the The output from this process is summarised in loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable risks crystallising and their potential an audit plan which is approved by the Audit assurance, the Board considers materiality and materiality.
The matrix is reviewed at regular Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit reports the relationship between the cost of, and intervals.
Responsibility for management of regularly to the Group Finance Director and benefit from, internal control systems.
the risks is attributed typically at senior Audit Committee.
The Board regularly reviews the actual and The role of the Internal Audit function and the forecast performance of the business compared scope of its work continues to evolve to take Internal Audit with the annual plan, as well as other key account of changes within the business and Internal Audit advises management on the performance indicators.
extent to which systems of internal control are Lines of responsibility and delegated The Board is responsible for Group compliance effective: are adequate to manage business authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups matters, and is advised in this respect by the risk: safeguard the Groups assets: and in policies and procedures are regularly updated Audit Committee, the Head of Internal Audit conjunction with the Group Company and distributed throughout the Group.
The and the Group Company Secretary.
Secretary, ensure compliance with legal and Audit Committee receives reports on a regular regulatory requirements.
It provides basis on compliance with the Groups policies independent and objective assurance on risks Going Concern and procedures.
and controls to senior management and the The directors have prepared the financial Board.
statements on a going concern basis consistent with their view, formed after making Assessment of business risk Internal Audits work is focused on areas of appropriate enquiries, that the Group is A corporate risk matrix has been developed greatest risk to the Group, as determined by a operationally and financially robust.
and approved by the Audit Committee and the structured risk assessment process involving Board.
The matrix records the key risks facing executive directors and senior management.
