WB RA f ckd 2003 40 52 26 2 04 12:12 pm Page 43 Corporate governance The Board believes it to be of paramount importance that it is able to assure shareholders and stakeholders alike that the Group adheres to the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Higgs Report on the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors and the Smith Report on the functioning of Audit Committees were issued in January 2003.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Services Authority and appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority was amended to incorporate the recommendations in these reports and a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Revised Code was published in July 2003.
The Board believes that significant progress has already been made towards satisfying the requirements of the Revised Code.
Although the Revised Code is not applicable to the Group in the year under review, the Group has commenced the process of further formalising and developing its procedures.
The Board has implemented a review of its corporate governance policies, as a result of which a number of changes to Board procedures have been introduced.
The Board will continue this process, which, it is anticipated, will enable it to report that during 2004, it has achieved compliance with the principles contained within the Revised Code.
This statement sets out how the Company applies the relevant principles contained in the Code.
The Board considers that throughout the year ended 31st December 2003 the Group has been in compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
Board structure and reporting On 1st March 2003, there were a number of changes to the composition of the Board when the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were separated and Mr I Robertson became Group Chief Executive.
Mr G M Brown was appointed Group Finance Director, thereby increasing the number of Executive Directors to six.
Throughout 2003 there were five Non-Executive Directors, three of whom the Board regard as independent.
All Directors stand for re-election at least once every three years.
Mr M J Stansfield, the Chief Executive of the main Housebuilding division, and Mr N H Richardson, who is Managing Director of Wilson Bowden Developments which includes Wilson Bowden City Homes, are both plc Board Directors and are accountable to the Board for all aspects of the operations of those businesses.
The substantial and strong independent Non-Executive presence, led by Dr A D Portno as senior independent Non-Executive Director, along with the management structure outlined above have ensured that the decision making process is not concentrated with any one individual.
It is the intention to further strengthen the Board by the appointment of two additional independent Non-Executive Directors during the course of the year.
The Board met on 8 occasions during the year under review and the Executive Directors also held regular meetings.
Formal arrangements have been instituted for the Non-Executive Directors to meet on their own.
The Board has identified in writing various matters that are reserved to it for consideration, which include the approval of the annual and interim results, decisions regarding the Groups strategic direction, corporate acquisitions and disposals, entry into joint venture arrangements, approval of the annual budget, major items of capital expenditure, financing strategy, overall systems of internal control and risk management.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to committees of the Board, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference and report directly to the Board.
Additional information on the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees is given below.
All Directors have access, as appropriate, to independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense.
They also have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus or share schemes and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Shareholders A detailed review of the performance and financial position of the Group is included in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 to 5, together with the operating and financial review on pages 24 to 35.
The Board uses this to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements are described on page 52.
The Company encourages two-way communication with its institutional and private investors based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
During 2003, the Company held 35 individual meetings with major shareholders.
All shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting, at which all Directors, including the Chairmen of the Boards Committees, are available to answer questions.
Board Committees Details of the composition of the Board Committees, which are in existence to deal with remuneration, audit and Board and senior executive appointments, are given below.
The Board has reviewed and adopted revised terms of reference for all three committees.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Dr A D Portno and comprises the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets as necessary and on at least two occasions per annum.
Access to Mr D W Wilson, other directors and 43 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance WB RA f ckd 2003 40 52 26 2 04 12:12 pm Page 44 Corporate governance continued external advisors is available as required.
Further details of the Remuneration Committees activities are set out on page 45.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr P J Byrom and comprises the three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are modelled closely on the provisions of the Revised Code.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in seeking to ensure the integrity of information supplied to shareholders in relation to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups system of internal financial controls and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
The Committee also holds responsibility for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditors and for ensuring the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee meets prior to results announcements and otherwise as required, with management and Executive Directors in attendance if required.
The external auditors attend the Committees meetings, and may request that a meeting be convened.
The Committee also has regular access to the Groups Head of Internal Audit.
It also considers the Groups compliance with the Code.
During 2004, the number of Committee meetings will be increased to enable it to discharge the increased level of responsibilities brought about by the provisions of the Revised Code.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr D E Brill and comprises the three independent Non-Executive Directors, together with Mr D W Wilson.
The Committee is responsible for leading the process of nominating individuals for senior appointments in the Group and for making recommendations to the Board to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills and experience are maintained within the Group and on the Board.
The Committee meets as and when required.
Internal control The Directors confirm that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company has been in place throughout 2003, and up to the date of approval of the 2003 annual report and accounts.
This process, which addresses financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
In conducting these reviews, the Board has taken into consideration the following key internal control processes used across the Group: Each business unit prepares risk assessments that encompass operational, compliance, financial and business risks.
These assessments are updated on an ongoing basis by business unit senior management, who seek input from operational staff as appropriate, to fully reflect those risks currently being faced.
A risk assessment is similarly prepared for the Group that addresses central functions and strategic risks.
The Audit Committee at its meetings periodically reviews these risk assessments.
A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting for the Groups operations is in place, with particular focus on cash flow and profitability.
This is updated monthly and provides appropriate, timely information on the performance of the business as well as projections and sensitivity analysis for the outlook period.
This information is monitored in the local operations and also centrally.
The Groups key financial control functions are centralised, which allows for high-level input and provides control over our diverse operations.
The Internal Audit department has an established audit plan that is approved, regularly reviewed and updated by the Audit Committee.
The work of the department includes the detailed review of systems and controls, the prior review of significant changes to systems and controls, the review of risk assessments, value-for-money investigations and other ad hoc projects as deemed appropriate.
The conclusions arising from this work are reported to the Board, the Audit Committee and to the Groups external auditors.
As part of the bi-annual review of internal controls, senior management within individual business units complete selfcertifications in which confirmation is given that, as far as possible, controls and safeguards are being operated in line with established procedures and standards.
These processes are supplemented by the required inclusion of current internal control issues in reports to management at both plc and subsidiary level.
This ongoing focus seeks to embed internal control and risk management into the operations of the business, as well as to provide timely opportunity for the Board to deal with areas of improvement that come to its attention.
The Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups internal controls framework and for the effectiveness of its operation.
However, the Board strongly believes that, as a result of the Groups commercial and geographical diversity, senior management within individual business units should also contribute in a substantial way to the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, managing and transferring risk.
Responsibility for ensuring that current controls are reviewed and that appropriate controls are established is also devolved to operational management.
The Groups risk management process is designed to ensure adequate stewardship of assets, the provision of relevant, accurate and timely information and for the running of the business and the maintenance of proper accounting records.
Internal control procedures are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve these objectives and can only provide reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Our control and monitoring procedures are subject to regular review and the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of our internal controls to ensure that they are keeping pace with operational and organisational change and the business environment in which the Group operates.
