53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 23 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES REVIEW OF OPERATIONS : 023 During 2003 we invested over $9m on R&D activities and expect to increase our expenditure in the first half of 2004.
As a result we expect to release a record number of new products during the current year.
LITIGATION During 2003 we invested over $9m on R&D activities and expect to increase our expenditure in the first half of 2004.
As a result On 9 October 2003, Cirrus Logic, a US fabless semiconductor we expect to release a record number of new products during company which competes with Wolfson in the consumer audio the current year.
These, with added functionality and higher market, led a complaint in the U. S. District Court of Southern performance, are expected to provide higher average selling California claiming infringement of two of its U. S. patents.
prices, further adding to revenue growth.
In support of our product On 14 October 2003, Cirrus led a complaint with the International development plans we are expanding our R&D activities with a Trade Commission in Washington claiming, after amendment, new design ofce in Swindon and further increasing the current infringement of the same patents, and seeking a ban on imports 80 strong engineering team in Edinburgh.
into the USA of a number of Wolfson products and end products incorporating those Wolfson products.
Extending the range of products offered to our customers will further strengthen the Company by making the business less We have stated publicly that we believe the Cirrus cases do not dependent on specic products, customers or end markets.
have merit and have submitted evidence of prior art relating to We have in place excellent manufacturing partners and plan to the alleged inventions of the patents.
We have also countersued for increase the overall staff complement to meet the needs of the patent invalidity and unenforceability, unfair competition and tortious business while retaining the appropriate balance within the interference in the U. S. District Court of Southern California.
We are shortly to move to new premises in Edinburgh The 2003 results were impacted by a charge of approximately acquired last year which will allow the effective development of $700K in relation to legal costs incurred in contesting the the organisation with improved communication and physical Cirrus litigation.
resources for the team to support the growth of the business.
We continue to focus on driving up the gross margin of the OUTLOOK FOR 2004 products by introducing innovative new products that lead market demand and enhance the overall profit of the Company.
We entered the new year with an exciting prospect of a healthy Wolfson is, we believe, becoming recognised by end product demand for our products and a record level of design wins yet manufacturers as one of the leading suppliers of high performance to reach production supply.
The markets for our products are mixed-signal integrated circuits for consumer applications, with a expanding rapidly as more and more consumer products reputation for innovation, quality and integrity a reputation that incorporate high quality audio, video and other analogue signal we are determined to live up to in the years to come.
As digital technology proliferates, the demand for high performance interface components increases.
Dr. David Milne CEO and Managing Director 53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 12:15 PM Page 24 GEORGE ELLIOTT : CFO AND FINANCE DIRECTOR 53815 Wolfson A R. qxp 4 5 04 10:11 AM Page 25 WOLFSON MICROELECTRONICS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 MAKING WAVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW : 025 Financial Review Turnover for the year ended 31 December 2003 increased by 125% to $75.7m from $33.7m the previous year.
This was mainly due to increased sales of integrated circuits for the imaging, consumer and portable audio markets.
Over 60% of turnover was generated in the second half of 2003.
This was consistent with the previous year and reected the seasonal build-up of consumer products manufactured by OEMs for the Christmas period.
