38 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance Including the report of the audit committee Compliance with the Combined Code The Chairman has addressed the developmental needs of the board The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance as a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team throughout the Group.
The board is accountable to the Companys and assists in the development of skills, knowledge and expertise.
shareholders for good governance and this statement describes During the year, the board reviewed its effectiveness and made how the board applies the principles of good governance set out changes to the content, delivery and presentation of papers that in the Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the are prepared for each meeting.
Meetings between the Non Executive Financial Services Authority.
As noted in the Chairmans statement Directors, both with and without the presence of the Chairman and on pages 6 and 7, the board has considered the recommendations Mr Banks, are now scheduled in the boards annual timetable and published at the beginning of 2003 by Derek Higgs and Sir Robert the board has also agreed that two board meetings should be Smith.
The board supported the majority of the recommendations held each year at divisional locations to help board members gain which were made and has been pleased to see the changes made a deeper understanding of the business.
on 23 July 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council, which have been incorporated into the revised Combined Code Revised Code.
Performance evaluations have been carried out for each member of the board.
Executive Directors performance has been assessed The board by the Chairman and Mr Banks, Mr Banks performance by the As at 31 July 2003 the board of directors was made up of eleven Chairman and the Non Executive Directors, the Chairmans members comprising the Chairman, six Executive Directors and four performance by the Non Executive Directors and Mr Banks and Non Executive Directors.
The Non Executive Directors are considered the Non Executive Directors performance by Mr Banks and the by the board to be independent of management and free of any Chairman.
The Chief Executives Review on page 19 outlines the relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise importance with which the Company views executive programmes, of their independent judgement.
The board considers that each to develop senior roles within the organisation.
In line with the of the Non Executive Directors brings his own senior level of Higgs report and the Revised Code, the Executive Directors are experience, gained in their own fields of mainly international operations.
encouraged to take on not more than one non executive position John Whybrow succeeded Richard Ireland as Chairman, following on a non-competitor board, for which they may retain payments his retirement at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in received in respect of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict 2002.
Gareth Davis was appointed as Non Executive Director with of interest all appointments are subject to the boards approval.
Andrew Hutton retired from the board on Succession is considered to be a matter for the whole board rather 31 July 2003 and Grard Legtmann was appointed to the board as than for a committee.
Chief Executive Europe with effect from 15 August 2003.
At the date of this report there remain eleven members of the board, comprising The Companys articles of association provide that one third of the Chairman, six executive directors and four Non Executive Directors.
the directors retire by rotation each year and that each director Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 30 and 31. will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the Additionally, new directors are subject to election by shareholders remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive Directors at the first opportunity after their appointment.
It is board policy that is detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49.
Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the board for more than nine years.
In cases where it is proposed to exceed this The board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc period the director concerned will retire annually and offer himself basis, as required by time critical business needs.
The board has for re-election.
Following their appointment, formal comprehensive a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, although and tailored induction is offered to all Non Executive Directors.
its primary role is to review the overall strategic development of the Although the Non Executive Directors are not asked, at present, Group as a whole.
Day-to-day operational decisions are delegated to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at to the executive committee referred to on page 40.
The board met presentations of the annual results is encouraged.
The Chairman eight times during the year and, save for two occasions on which a ensures that the board maintains an appropriate dialogue with Non Executive Director could not attend a meeting and one occasion shareholders.
on which illness prevented attendance by an Executive Director, all of the directors were in attendance for each regular meeting.
Following the appointment of Gareth Davis on 1 July 2003, the The board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed board has four independent Non Executive Directors, excluding the necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys Chairman, within the definition set out in the Revised Code.
Whilst expense in the furtherance of their duties and has secured the board recognises that currently less than half the members of appropriate insurance cover for the directors.
This is in addition the board are comprised of such directors, it is seeking to recruit to the access that every director has to the Company Secretary, more Non Executive Directors over time.
The board acknowledges who is charged with ensuring that board procedures are followed the recommendations made by the Higgs report on the importance and that good corporate governance and compliance is of drawing potential board candidates from a wider pool.
The differing roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged and set out in writing.
The board has also reconfirmed its view that it should not at this The Chairman has confirmed that he would not chair any other stage designate a senior Non Executive Director for the reason major companys board.
39 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 The board has established a number of committees, each of which The role of the audit committee is to recommend the has formal terms of reference copies of those for the main committees appointment and reappointment of the Companys external are available from the Company Secretary and can be found on the auditors for example, the recommendation to the board Companys website at www.
com approved by the board and to appoint  LLP in succession to complying with the Combined Code to assist in the discharge of its  referred to in Resolution 9 of the duties.
Members of the various committees are shown on page 31.
Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Mr Whybrow is the only director who sits on all main committees.
The committee reviews the scope, results including schedules The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all board committees.
of unadjusted errors and representation letters and cost effectiveness of the audit as well as the auditors remuneration and performance.
Nominations committee The committee also ensures that key partners within the external The nominations committee meets on an as needed basis and is auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with both UK comprised of Mr Whybrow Chairman, Mr Banks and Mr Walker.
It also monitors the extent of non-audit work which Mr Whybrow would not chair the committee when it considers the external auditors can perform, to ensure that the provision of the appointment of a successor chairman.
The board will address those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external the composition of the nominations committee as well as the auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not impair their remuneration and audit committees in light of the Revised Code objectivity or independence.
The external auditors provide audit as further Non Executive Directors are recruited.
The committee related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well reviews the structure, size and composition of the board and makes as formalities relating to shareholder or other circulars.
The external recommendations with regard to any changes that are considered auditors report to the committee any material departures from Group necessary, both in the identification and nomination of new directors accounting policies and procedures that they identify during the and the continuation of existing directors in office.
The committee course of their audit work.
Within the constraints of applicable retains external search consultants as appropriate.
The committee US and UK rules, the external auditors undertake due diligence also advises the board on succession planning for executive board reviews and provide assistance on tax matters given their in-depth appointments although the board itself is responsible for succession knowledge of the Groups business.
The provision of non-audit generally.
The committee met three times during the year.
All members services within such constraints and the agreed policy is assessed of the committee attended each meeting.
on a case by case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
Audit committee The committee also reviews the Groups internal audit function and The audit committee comprises Messrs Allan, Davis from 1 July 2003, its relationship with the external auditors, including internal audit Whybrow and Murray who chairs the committee.
Mr Ireland plans and performance.
The committee has also approved a policy ceased to be a member of the committee when he retired on on the recruitment of staff from both the external auditors and from 13 December 2002.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary KPMG LLP to whom some elements of the internal audit function to the committee.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and have been outsourced.
The committee monitors the application Group Financial Controller usually attend meetings of the committee of the policies related to the provision of non-audit services and together with the Head of Internal Audit and external auditors.
the recruitment of staff and will keep them under review.
Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience from The audit committee reviews the Companys published financial senior executive levels.
The board considers that, with the exception results, the annual report and the Form 20-F, which is filed with the of Mr Whybrow, each member of the committee is independent Securities and Exchange Commission in the USA.
The committee within the definition set out in the Revised Code.
Mr Murray, also reviews, where practicable, all proposed announcements to the Chairman of the committee, is considered to have significant, be made by the Company to the extent that they contain material recent and relevant financial experience, having been Finance financial information.
It also reviews disclosures made by the Director at Land Securities PLC.
Members of the committee Chief Executive and Group Finance Director during the certification are appointed by the board following recommendation by the process for the Form 20-F concerning the design and operation of nominations committee.
All members of the committee receive internal controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including appropriate induction and ongoing training.
The remuneration of any fraud involving management or other employees involved in the members of the committee is set out on page 45 and the policy the Groups financial controls.
The committee monitors and reviews with regard to the remuneration of Non Executive Directors is set out the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting on page 49. policies and practices, risk management procedures and compliance controls as well as the Companys statements on internal controls before they are agreed by the board for each years annual report.
The board retains overall responsibility for internal control and the identification and management of business risk.
40 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued The committee met four times during the year and, save for one Internal control meeting, all of the members of the committee were present at each In a highly decentralised Group, where local management has meeting.
The committee consults both the internal and external considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, auditors in the absence of executives at the end of such meetings.
a well designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard The Chairman of the committee attends the Annual General Meeting shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The directors to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups the committees activities.
Subsequent to the financial year end, systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
the committee agreed an addition to the Group-wide Code of Ethics In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report to create a confidential and anonymous process for dealing with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, submissions by employees and others of any concerns or complaints an ongoing process had been established for identifying, managing received by the Company regarding, inter alia, accounting, internal and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
This process has been accounting or auditing matters.
A copy of the Code of Ethics is in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which the available on the Companys website at www.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Remuneration committee Groups objectives, safeguard the Groups assets against material The committee comprises Messrs Walker, Whybrow and Allan.
loss, fairly report the Groups performance and position and to Mr Walker and Mr Allan are independent within the definition set ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best out in the Revised Code.
The Chairman of the committee is Mr Walker, practice including that related to social, environmental and ethical who succeeded Mr Whybrow in this role on 13 December 2002. matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance The committee met five times during the year and, save for one against material misstatement or loss.
Such systems are regularly meeting, all of the members of the committee were present at each reviewed by the board to deal with changing circumstances.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business on remuneration to the board.
The boards Remuneration Report is is given on pages 28 and 29.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an set out on pages 44 to 49. integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems Executive committee of internal control.
As part of this review, each business area and The Executive Directors of the Company meet at least nine times function has been required to identify and document each significant each year, often on the day before formal board meetings.
The risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, committee addresses operational business issues and shares best monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of these practice, thereby allowing the directors more time at board meetings controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign bi-annual to focus on strategy.
Adrian Barden was appointed as a member confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any of this committee following Mr Huttons retirement on 31 July 2003. breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised Mr Barden has been responsible for Wolseley Centers in the UK results have been presented to senior management and to the audit since 1 August 2003. committee.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year under review.
A summary of Treasury committee the principal control structures and processes in place across the Since 1 July 2003, the committee has comprised the Chief Executive, Group is set out below.
the Group Treasurer and the Group Finance Director, who acts as its Chairman.
Its role is to consider treasury policy, tax matters and Control structures certain transactions on behalf of the Group within a framework Whilst the board has overall responsibility for the Groups system delegated by the board.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness it has delegated responsibility for the internal control and risk management programme Internal audit to the Group Finance Director.
The detailed review of internal control The board confirms that a discrete internal audit function was and risk management has been delegated to the audit committee.
established within the Group before the end of the financial year.
The Head of Internal Audit is based at the Companys head office in The management of each Group company is responsible for internal Theale.
Certain internal audit functions have initially been outsourced control and risk management within its own business, and for ensuring to KPMG LLP.
The internal audit function will carry out assessments compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each Group of the quality of risk management and internal control and will company has appointed a risk director whose primary role in such promote effective risk management within the businesses.
capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the The audit committee will review internal audit reports.
Groups risk management and internal control programme.
Both the internal and external auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
41 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Control processes There were no significant changes in the Groups internal controls The board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual or in other factors that could significantly affect those controls basis, and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light subsequent to the date that the evaluation was completed, nor of these.
Control is exercised at both Group and subsidiary board were there any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses level through monthly monitoring of performance by comparison to in the Groups internal controls which required corrective action.
budgets, forecasts and cash targets, and by regular visits to Group companies by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Compliance statement Twice a year Group companies approve and submit risk reports The Company applied the principles set out in section 1 of the to the audit committee, summarising the key risks facing their Combined Code for the period under review and has, throughout businesses and the controls in place to manage those risks.
the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein with These reports, together with reports on internal control and the following two exceptions: departures, if any, from established Group procedures prepared by the external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director The board has reconsidered the nomination of a senior independent and the audit committee.
Non Executive Director but continues to believe that, given the size and composition of the board and the recent changes Group companies submit annual risk and internal control to the board, such a nomination is not currently appropriate.
representation letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control and risk management issues, with comments on the control Following the introduction of a new directors bonus scheme environment within their operations.
The Group Finance Director with effect from 1 August 2000, the pensionable salary of one summarises these submissions for the audit committee and the Executive Director includes his bonus capped at a fixed amount.
Chairman of the audit committee reports to the board on any risk management and internal control matters following each audit The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required committee meeting.
to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code The board has formal procedures in place which were reviewed specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does during the year for the approval of investment and acquisition not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
projects, with designated levels of authority, supported by postinvestment review processes for selected acquisitions and major New York Stock Exchange capital expenditure.
The board considers social, environmental and Corporate governance requirements ethical matters in relation to the Groups businesses and assesses On 1 August 2002 the board of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. these when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The board is approved a set of measures to strengthen corporate accountability.
conscious of the effect such matters may have on the shortand Whilst the Company is not required to comply with these measures, long-term value of the Company.
as it is a private foreign issuer, it does comply in all material respects with those standards.
The external auditors of the Company and the Head of Internal Audit attend audit committee meetings and receive its papers.
Communications with shareholders The report of the audit committee is set out on page 39 and the The Company places considerable importance on communication audit committee members regularly meet the external auditors with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
without the presence of executive management.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are closely involved in investor relations and a senior executive has day to day responsibility As noted on page 36, the Company has entered into a level II for such matters.
The views of our major shareholders are reported American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New York to the board by the Group Finance Director and discussed at its and has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all Commission the Commission.
The Company is required to shareholders either in paper form or electronically, and can be comply with applicable US regulations including the recently enacted accessed via the Companys website or via Shareview, an Internet Sarbanes-Oxley Act insofar as it applies to foreign private issuers.
service offered by the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, detailed on page 84.
In accordance with the Commissions recommendations, the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures within 90 days of the date of this report and have concluded that, at that date, the disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that material information relating to the Group was made known to them during the period in which this report was being prepared.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director will also provide the certificates required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act when the Form 20-F is filed.
42 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has Awards under employee share schemes been extended to private shareholders through the Annual General Options were granted under the Employee Share Purchase Plan Meeting and meetings with shareholder representatives.
The Groups in March 2003 to 2,596 US-based employees and 616 Canadianpreliminary and interim results, as well as all announcements issued based employees in respect of a maximum 2,260,153 ordinary to the London and New York Stock Exchanges, are published on shares exercisable at 437.75 pence per share.
Options were granted the Companys website, www.
The Company issues under the UK Employees Savings Related Share Option Scheme in regular trading updates to the market and these, together with copies June 2003 to 2,256 employees in respect of a maximum 1,249,020 of presentations to analysts and interviews with the Chief Executive ordinary shares exercisable at 412 pence per share.
Options and Group Finance Director, are also posted on the website.
Notice were granted under the Irish Sharesave Scheme in June 2003 to of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at 88 employees in respect of a maximum 76,677 ordinary shares least 20 working days before such meeting.
It is Company policy exercisable at 412 pence per share.
In November 2002 options not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
were granted under the 1984 and 1989 Executive Senior Executive All shareholders are invited to the Companys Annual General Meeting Share Option Schemes over respectively 173,016 and 2,786,484 at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the board ordinary shares to senior employees of the Group at an option price and it is standard practice to have the chairmen of the audit, of 543 pence per share.
These schemes are described on pages nominations and remuneration committees available to answer 47 and 48.
Details of the total options outstanding at 31 July 2003 questions.
Details of proxy voting are made available at the meeting are set out in note 20 to the financial statements.
Details of the and are published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
awards under the Long Term Performance Related Incentive Scheme for Mr Banks and the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Donations Scheme are set out on page 45.
The Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Report is set out on pages 33 to 35.
The Groups charitable donations in 2003 totalled Employee policies and involvement 838,000 2002: 648,899.
The Group made no political donations.
The Group places particular importance on the involvement of its employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins, The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 defines Directions and other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys EU political organisations widely, and whose activities may form part internal website, on matters affecting them as employees and on of normal relationships between companies and the political machinery, the issues affecting their performance.
A European Works Council even though such activities are not designed to affect public has been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for consultation support for a particular party or influence support for any party.
with employees on significant developments in the Groups operations, managements plans and expectations, organisational changes The Group made no political donations in 2003 and does not make within the Group and for employee representatives to consult what are commonly regarded as political donations.
The Group will management about concerns over any aspect of the Groups continue this policy.
The Group may, however, need as part of its operations.
At the date of this report, there are 17 members business to contact politicians and political parties within the EU on comprising 11 employee representatives elected from among a non-partisan basis in order to make them aware of industry views, employees from each European company.
In the UK, employees may serve as local councillors who are permitted time off by their employer.
The definitions Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join the Companys of political donations and EU political expenditure have been drafted pension arrangements including the defined benefit pension so broadly that some such activities may fall within the Act, even scheme, which has one corporate and two individual trustees.
though they are not donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The Chairman of the trustees is David Tucker and, save for an The Act requires companies to obtain shareholder approval before independent trustee, all of the other trustees are UK-based employees such expenditure or donations in excess of certain limits may be or former employees of the Group.
The directors, therefore, propose on a precautionary basis, the UK are usually offered membership of their employing companies to once more seek authority for the Group to make donations and pension arrangements.
Employees are offered a range of benefits incur expenditure, which they might otherwise be prohibited from depending on the local environment, such as private medical cover.
making or incurring under the terms of the Act.
Among other things, the Act requires that this authorising resolution should not purport Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the to authorise particular donations or expenditure and requires any Company, where possible, through participation in the Companys donations to EU political organisations or any EU political expenditure share schemes.
Priority is given to the training of employees, and the in excess of 200 to be disclosed in the annual report.
The directors development of their skills is of prime importance.
Employment of consider that the authority sought under the resolution to allow the disabled people is considered on merit with regard only to the ability Company or its subsidiaries to incur this type of expenditure of not of any applicant to carry out the function required.
Arrangements more than 125,000 in total until the Companys next Annual General to enable disabled people to carry out the function required will be Meeting is necessary to ensure that, because of the uncertainty over made if it is reasonable to do so.
An employee becoming disabled which bodies are covered, the Company does not unintentionally would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues breach the Act.
The policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political party will continue.
The authority sought by Resolution 13 will last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
43 Report of the directors Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 to operate on a highly decentralised basis.
This provides the CREST maximum encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a for stocks and shares.
Local managements are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for ensuring Auditors that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
Following the transfer of substantially all of the business of the UK firm of  to a limited liability partnership Creditor payment policy on 1 January 2003,  resigned as auditors All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and to the Company on 31 March 2003 and the directors appointed conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Groups policy the new auditors,  LLP with effect from that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and, 1 April 2003.
 LLP are willing to continue where applicable, consistent with the UK CBI Prompt Payers Code.
as auditors of the Company and Resolution 9 concerning their Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Company Secretary appointment and the determination of their remuneration is to at the Companys registered office.
be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
At 31 July 2003 the Company had no trade creditors 2002: nil.
Annual general meeting resolutions The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2003 The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting was equivalent to 57 days 2002: 46 days of trade purchases.
to be held on 21 November 2003, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting, Shareholder services which has been sent to all registered shareholders.
Shareview is a service offered by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, which allows shareholders on-line access to a range of shareholder information.
Shareview provides access to details of shareholdings in the Company and practical help on transferring shares or updating personal details.
It also allows shareholders to choose to receive shareholder communications electronically, On behalf of the board rather than by post.
To register, shareholders simply need to log on Mark J White to www.
Shareholders will need their shareholder Company Secretary reference number, which is shown on the form of proxy, which has been sent to all shareholders.
First time users will need to enter Wolseley plc, Registered No.
29846 certain information and choose a PIN number before they are able Theale, Reading to access their shareholding details.
Shareview dealing is also now 22 September 2003 available to UK-based shareholders.
This is a simple and convenient telephone and Internet share sale service offered by the registrars.
For telephone sales call: 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for Internet sales, log on to www.
Existing and potential UK shareholders may also acquire shares in the Company through UK Individual Savings Accounts, which are managed by ISA managers.
