Compensation committee Internal control The committee comprises non-executive directors, WPP operates a system of internal control, which whom the Company considers to be independent.
is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Throughout the year the members were: Bud Morten Combined Code and the guidance in the Turnbull chairman of the committee, Philip Lader and Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Christopher Mackenzie.
Securities Exchange Act 1934 as they currently apply to In 2003 the committee met four times on a formal the Company.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company basis and also held many additional ad hoc meetings.
has complied throughout the year with the Turnbull All members attended the formal meetings.
Report and has also complied with the relevant The committee received advice from the Company provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. executives and external advisors referred to in the report The Board which receives advice from the Audit of the Compensation committee on page 87. committee has overall responsibility for the system of The role of the committee includes: internal control and risk management in the Group and setting and reviewing the remuneration of executive has reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the directors and senior executives of the Company and year.
In the context of the scope and complexity of this of directors and senior executives of the operating system, the Board can only give reasonable, but not companies: absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
devising and implementing long-term incentive The principal elements of internal control are programs: described below.
reviewing terms of employment including any termination arrangements of executive directors and Control environment senior executives of the Company and of directors and The tone from the top set by the executive directors senior executives of the operating companies: and other senior executives is essential to the proper reviewing systems implemented throughout the Group conduct of the Group.
to deal with matters such as employee harassment and The quality and competence of our people, discrimination, including systems for the condential their integrity, ethics and behaviour are all vital to the and anonymous submissions by employees regarding maintenance of the Groups system of internal control.
such matters: The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly appointing and reviewing the performance of external reviewed by the Audit committee and the Board sets advisors to the committee and to the Company out the principal obligations of all employees.
Directors in relation to executive remuneration and human and senior executives throughout the Group are required resource activities.
to certify their compliance with this Code each year.
The WPP Policy Book which has recently been reviewed Nomination committee and updated, includes the Code and human resource This committee comprises both non-executive and practices, as well as guidance on required practice in executive directors.
The Company considers the many operational areas.
Breaches or alleged breaches majority of the former including the chairman for this of the Code are investigated urgently by the Director purpose to be independent.
The present members are: of internal audit and the Group general counsel.
Philip Lader chairman of the committee, Bud Morten, Furthermore, the Group has an independently Christopher Mackenzie, Sir Martin Sorrell executive operated helpline, Right to Speak, for the reporting and Beth Axelrod executive.
of issues that employees feel unable to raise locally.
During 2004 and in view of proposed regulatory changes in the US, the Board will be considering changes Risk assessment to the composition of this committee with a view to it Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations being composed only of non-executive directors.
throughout the world is given the highest priority by the In 2003 the committee met three times on Group chief executive and the Board, as it is essential to a formal basis and also held a number of ad hoc the creation and protection of share owner value and the meetings throughout the year.
All members attended development of the careers of our people.
The Board the formal meetings.
realises that WPP is a service company and its ongoing The role of the committee includes: prosperity depends on being able to continue to provide reviewing the size, composition, effectiveness and a quality service to its existing and potential clients in independence of the Board and each of its committees: a creative, efficient and economic way.
monitoring the responsibilities of non-executive The manner in which the Group implements its directors, including the chairman: control of risk includes the following.
approving the appointment of all directors and ensuring At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive the effectiveness of the process for Board succession: presents a Brand Check review of each of the business evaluating the effectiveness of the Board and of operations, incorporating a risk monitor, providing each committee of the Board.
As referred to above feedback on the business risks.
Details of any change evaluations have been conducted since the end of the in the risk prole since the last Board meeting are also year under review.
provided covering such areas as the effect of changes 80 WPP Annual Report 2003
