How we behave Directors report Share owner relations Relations with share owners, potential share owners and Directors report investment analysts are regarded by the Group as extremely important.
Corporate governance provisions The Group has developed a continuous program The Board of Directors is collectively accountable to the to address the needs of share owners, investment Companys share owners for good corporate governance institutions and analysts for a regular ow of and is committed to achieve compliance with the information about the Company, its strategy, principles of corporate governance set out in the performance and competitive position.
Given the wide Combined Code of the Listing Rules of the Financial geographic distribution of the Groups current and Services Authority.
potential share owners, this program includes regular The Company complies with the US Sarbanesvisits to investors, particularly by the Group chief Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations that relate to it, executive and the Group finance director, in the UK, as they affect foreign registrants, and seeks to comply Continental Europe and the major financial centres in with the principles of good corporate governance North America, Asia Pacic and South America.
The and various guidelines such as those issued by the Company provides a quarterly trading update at the end Association of British Insurers ABI, the National of the first and third quarters in addition to bi-annual Association of Pension Funds NAPF and with the reporting required in the UK.
Recently the Company has conducted a detailed The Board believes that the Company has been consultation with institutional share owners in both the compliant throughout the year with the provisions set UK and the US and with the ABI, NAPF and PIRC in out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
connection with the renewal of the Leadership Equity Details of the service contracts of all of the Acquisition Plan LEAP, which was approved by share executive directors are set out on page 89. owners on 16 April 2004.
The Company has terms of reference for each of The Companys website www.
com the Audit, Compensation and Nomination committees provides investors with an up-to-date source of information.
which are available on the Companys website www.
com and will be available for Independence of non-executive directors inspection as set out in the Notice of Annual General During the year the Nomination committee has Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report.
considered a number of possible candidates for appointment as non-executive directors.
Given the stringent denition of independent under the Combined Code coupled with the increased global responsibility placed on such appointments, particularly by the regulatory bodies in the US and the UK, in addition to the amount of time and commitment such an appointment entails, it has become increasingly difficult for a global company such as WPP to recruit new candidates.
The Board is therefore fortunate to have been able to appoint Orit Gadiesh and Paul Spencer as additional non-executive directors with effect from April 2004.
Michael Jordan will retire from the Board at the end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting due to other business commitments.
Jeremy Bullmore and John Jackson will retire at the end of September 2004.
The Company is enormously indebted to Jeremy, John and Michael for their wise counsel and invaluable contributions to the Company over many years.
The Company is fortunate to be able to retain the services of Jeremy and John through the foundation of an Advisory committee which Jeremy will chair.
Paul Spencer will replace John as chairman of the Audit committee after a suitable induction period in October 2004.
Under the Combined Code it is for the Board to determine whether a director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The NAPF 2004 Corporate Governance Policy emphasises that WPP Annual Report 2003 77
