35 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement The mix of skills and business experience of the Non-executive Directors is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the Board, ensuring matters are debated and that no individual or group dominates the Board decision making process.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a specified term normally three years, subject to re-election and all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Non-executive Directors would normally serve for three periods of three years as the Board firmly believes that this provides the maximum opportunity for Non-executive Directors to gain experience and bring experience to the Board.
One-third of the other Directors must seek re-election by the shareholders each year.
Xansas policy is that no Director stays in office for more than three years without re-election.
Board committees The Board has established several committees, each with defined terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are normally sent to all Directors and oral The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
updates are given at Board meetings.
Committee membership is shown Following the recommendations in the reports on the Role and on pages 26 and 27.
Effectiveness of Non-executive Directors the Higgs Report and Audit Audit Committee Committees the Smith Report the Board is reviewing its governance Chaired by Mr A R F Buxton, the Audit Committee also comprises arrangements, and will consider making changes as necessary and Mrs C C Brooke and Professor N Hood.
Mr E D B Tebbs served on the appropriate.
Committee until his retirement from the Company on 31 March 2003.
Compliance with the Combined Code There were no other changes in the composition of the Committee The UK Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in during the year.
The Finance Director and external auditors normally relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code which is appended to attend all meetings and the Committee also meets the external the UK Listing Rules, how they have applied its principles and whether auditors without management present.
The Audit Committee, which they have complied with its provisions through the accounting period.
normally meets three times during the year, is responsible for reviewing The Company has complied with the requirements of the UK Listing a wide range of financial matters including the half-year and annual Authority relating to the provisions of the Combined Code throughout accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the the accounting period.
The Company has complied with the internal controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial control provisions by establishing the procedures necessary to information reported to shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the implement the guidance issued in September 1999 the Turnbull Board on the appointment of external and internal auditors including Committee report and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
reviewing their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses Directors the nature and scope of their audit work.
Xansas Board comprises six executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors including the Chairman, Mrs H M Cropper and senior Remuneration Committee Non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman, Mr A R F Buxton.
Chaired by Professor N Hood, the Remuneration Committee also Of the Non-executive Directors, five are independent.
Mrs H M Cropper comprises Mr D M Thomas and Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB who joined is not considered independent.
Collectively, the Non-executive the Committee on his appointment.
To minimise the degree of Directors provide broadly based knowledge and experience to the duplication by Non-executive Directors on Board committees, following Boards deliberations and are vital for corporate accountability.
recent developments in corporate governance, Mr A R F Buxton resigned Biographical details of all the Directors are set out on pages 26 from the Remuneration Committee on 26 March 2003.
Executive responsibility for running the Companys business lies resigned from the Committee on 31 March 2003.
There were no with the Chief Executive, who has clearly defined responsibilities and is other changes in the Committees composition during the year.
supported by the Management Board, details of which are given below.
The Committee, which normally meets four times during the year, The Board met 11 times during the year, with two, one-day off-site determines the remuneration policy adopted for Xansa employees sessions specifically to discuss the organisations strategy.
It has a worldwide and specifically the contract terms, remuneration and formal schedule of matters reserved for decisions but otherwise other benefits of the Executive Directors, including performance-related delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, as bonus schemes.
All Directors receive written reports prior to each Board meeting which enable them to make an informed decision on the corporate and business issues under consideration.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are followed and is available to individual Directors for advice on these procedures.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring new Directors receive appropriate training and induction to Xansa, which includes a series of meetings with members of the Management Board and a briefing on Xansas investor relations programme.
36 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement Nomination Committee Internal control and risk management Chaired by Mrs H M Cropper, the Nomination Committee also comprises The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Mr A R F Buxton, Mrs C C Brooke, Professor N Hood, Mr D M Thomas organisations systems of internal control which are designed to and Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB who joined the Committee on his ensure effective and efficient operations, including financial reporting appointment.
Mr E D B Tebbs resigned from the Committee on and compliance with laws and regulations and for reviewing their 31 March 2003.
There were no other changes in the composition effectiveness.
In establishing and reviewing the systems, the Directors of the Committee during the year.
The Committee, which meets as have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss and when required, but normally four times a year, keeps under review being incurred and the costs of control.
It follows therefore that such the composition and balance of the Board and makes recommendations systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against to the Board on all new appointments and re-appointments of material misstatement or loss.
Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of the annual strategic planning cycle across each business unit and region.
Management Board Monthly reports are provided by each of the geographic businesses and formerly called the Strategic Board Chaired by the Chief Executive, by Business Process Outsourcing.
The business reviews allow Xansa to the Management Board meets normally 11 times during the year and, identify any risks relating to service streams and help to identify any comprises all the executive Directors other than Mr S Srivastava, and risks arising in countries where Xansa operates.
Working within clearly defined limits delegated Once any risks have been identified which might hamper by the Board, the Management Board develops the organisations achievement of these strategic objectives, each business is required strategy for Board approval and oversees its implementation.
to document how these risks will be managed and what mitigating It also finalises, before Board approval, annual operating and capital activities have been put in place in respect of each significant risk.
expenditure plans and budgets, reviews operational activities and agrees Processes have been established for reporting and managing any and monitors organisational-wide policies.
Each Corporate function also considers the risks Relations with shareholders to the organisations strategic objectives which are not addressed by The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships the businesses and develops its own risk profile.
Information is then with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders are kept informed reported monthly to the Management Board and is thereafter included of significant Company developments.
The Board recognises it is as part of the Boards quarterly agenda.
Control issues arising from accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the assurance processes, including risk assurance and external audit organisation including the system of internal control and the review findings, are also discussed at these meetings.
Ernst & Young LLP have been acting as Xansas internal auditors, Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, reporting through the Audit Committee and providing business hold meetings with the Companys principal institutional shareholders assurance and internal audit services.
The Board has approved in to discuss the Companys strategy, financial performance and specific principle, the establishment of a seperate internal audit function for major investment activities.
Care is exercised to ensure that all Xansa and Ernst & Young LLP have notified the Company that they will price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the be withdrawing from taking overall responsibility for providing internal same time in accordance with the UK Listing Authority requirements.
audit services, but will continue on a temporary basis until the internal The Directors are kept appraised of the Companys investor relations audit function has been established.
Although the introduction of the programme by regular presentations at Board meetings.
internal audit function has been delayed, the Board expects this to be The Board regards the general meetings as an opportunity to operating by 31 October 2003. communicate directly with private investors and actively encourages The effectiveness of the internal control systems are reviewed participative dialogue.
The Chairman, executive Directors and Chairmen quarterly by the Board and the review covers all internal control systems of the Audit and Remuneration Committees attend the AGM each year including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
and are available to answer questions from shareholders present.
The Board confirms the processes were in place throughout the year At general meetings, all voting is carried out by poll and a schedule of under review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements proxy votes cast is also made available to all shareholders.
In this way, and that the information it received was sufficient to enable it to the Board believes that all shareholders, including those substantial review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
number of employee shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM By Order of the Board for geographic or work-related reasons, will be enfranchised and their votes counted.
The Company proposes a separate resolution on Philip Cook each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions General Counsel and Company Secretary together inappropriately.
24 June 2003 Registered office: Campus 300 Maylands Avenue Hemel Hempstead Herts HP2 7TQ
