DIRECTORS REPORT Details of interests in the share capital of the Company of those directors in office as at 31 December 2003 are given below.
As of the date of this report, there have been no changes.
None of the shares was held non-beneficially.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares held beneficially held beneficially held beneficially held beneficially as at as at as at as at Name of Director 1 January 2003 31 December 2003 1 January 2003 31 December 2003 Executive Non-Executive Mick Davis 58,552 146,380 Ivan Glasenberg 0 0 Trevor Reid 16,180 40,450 Paul Hazen 3,986 357,320 Santiago Zaldumbide 40,471 101,176 David Issroff 0 0 Robert MacDonnell 51,370 595,920 Sir Steve Robson 0 0 David Rough 5,831 14,576 Dr. Fred Roux 2,181 0 Willy Strothotte 0 0 Ian Strachan 0 6,500 In addition to the above interests in shares, certain of the directors also have interests in the share capital of the Company in the form of options to subscribe for shares.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 98.
Attendance at Board meetings and Committees of the Board as members of the Board or committees Director Full Board 5 Audit 3 Remuneration 2 Nominations 1 Mick Davis 5 Ivan Glasenberg 5 1 Paul Hazen 4 2 David Issroff 5 Robert MacDonnell 4 1 Sir Steve Robson 4 3 David Rough 4 2 1 Trevor Reid 5 Dr. Fred Roux 5 3 Ian Strachan 2 3 Willy Strothotte 5 2 Santiago Zaldumbide 5 All meetings since elected on 08 05 03 Called but postponed to 09 02 04 Share Capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company, including the rights pertaining to each share class, are set out in Note 20 to the Financial Statements.
Under the Companies Act 1985 the Board is not able to allot shares except with the general or specific authority of the shareholders.
An Ordinary Resolution will therefore be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to authorise the Directors of the Company in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of US$105,250,402 equivalent to 210,500,804 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each being the lesser of the Companys authorised but unissued share capital and one third of its issued capital.
80 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 This represents 33.33% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as of the date of this report.
The authority extends until the end of the next AGM.
The Board does not have any present intention of exercising this authority other than for the purposes of the Companys employee share option schemes.
The Companies Act 1985 provides that, when equity securities are being issued for cash, such securities must first be offered to existing shareholders unless the Board is given a power to allot them without regard to that requirement.
A Special Resolution will therefore be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to empower the Board to allot for cash, equity securities of a nominal amount not exceeding US$15,787,560 equivalent to 31,575,120 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each representing 5% of the issued share capital without first offering such securities to existing ordinary shareholders.
Any issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Major Interests in Shares On 23 February 2004, the following major interests in the ordinary issued shares of US$0.50 each of the Company had been notified to the Company in accordance with sections 198-208, Companies Act 1985: Number of Ordinary shares % of Ordinary issued Name of shareholder of US$0.50 each share capital Glencore International AG 253,699,767 40.17 Credit Suisse Group 255,029,932 40.38 The Capital Group Companies Inc. 68,676,197 10.87 Fidelity Investments 19,098,488 3 Standard Life Investments Limited 25,345,770 4 Pursuant to a capital management programme, as announced on 29 May 2003, entered into by Credit Suisse First Boston Equities Limited CSFB Equities and Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited CSFB Europe, being members of the Credit Suisse Group, and Glencore International AG Glencore, in connection with the Groups acquisition of the MIM Group and the associated rights issue, Glencore, CSFB Equities and CSFB Europe are jointly interested in 253,699,767 ordinary shares representing 40.17% of the issued share capital of the Company Details of transactions between the Group and the shareholders detailed above are given in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice It is the Companys policy that payments are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 31 December 2003, the Company had no trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00 am Central European Time on Thursday 6 May 2004 at Congress Center Metalli Park Hotel Zug 6300 Zug, Switzerland with a satellite meeting held concurrently at 10.00 am BST at the City Presentation Centre, 4 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4UP.
The Notice convening the meeting is sent to shareholders separately with this Report.
An explanation of the item of special business to be considered at the meeting is given in the relevant section of this Report.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On Behalf of the Board Richard Elliston Company Secretary 23 February 2004 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction The Board is committed to the principle of best practice in corporate governance.
This report addresses the status of the Companys compliance with the principles and provisions of the Combined Code issued by the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 and annexed to the Listing Rules the Code, details the key policies, processes and structures that apply within the Group to comply with the Code, and describes actions taken by the Company to ensure that it is compliant in 2004 with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued on 23 July 2003 the revised Code which now supersedes the Code.
The revised Code will apply to the Company for reporting year 2004.
Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code During the year ended 31 December 2003, the Company complied with the principles and provisions of Section 1 of the Code, except, as explained below, with regard to membership of the Remuneration Committee B.
2.2 as the Chairman of the Committee is not considered independent and the Audit Committee D. 3.1 which, until Mr Stachans appointment to the Board on 8 May 2003, had only two independent non-executive directors.
Application of the Principles and the Provisions of the Code The Code establishes fourteen Principles of Good Governance divided into four areas: Directors, Directors Remuneration, Relations with Shareholders and Accountability and Audit.
The manner in which the principles have been adopted and applied by the Company is detailed below.
Directors i The Board With the appointment of Ian Strachan as a director on 8 May 2003, the Company has twelve directors, comprising three executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
Of the nine non-executive directors, six are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and three, Willy Strothotte, Ivan Glasenberg and David Issroff are directors of Glencore International AG Glencore.
Willy Strothotte is Chairman, Ivan Glasenberg is Chief Executive and David Issroff is Head of the Ferroalloys Division, of Glencore.
The Board has considered these associations and considers the industry expertise and experience of these directors beneficial to the Group.
The non-executive directors possess a range of experience and are of sufficiently high calibre to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct documented in an approved Statement of Business Principles that are vital to the success of the Group.
A clear separation is maintained between the responsibilities of the Chairman who is concerned with the running of the Board and executive management responsible for the running of the Companys business.
To comply with the revised Code, the Board approved in December a written statement clearly establishing the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
David Rough, as Deputy Chairman, is the senior independent director on the Board and his appointment as the Senior Independent Director as described in the revised Code was formalised by board resolution in December.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and is responsible for the Companys objectives and policies and providing effective leadership and control required for a public company.
Five full board meetings were held during the year.
While the Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance and critical business issues, it also has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
During the course of the year the Board reviewed and updated a comprehensive regime of authorisation levels and prior approval requirements for key corporate decisions and actions.
All directors are made aware that they may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
All directors had access to the advice and services of the Group Legal Counsel and from 1 November 2003 of the Company Secretary, who were responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures were followed and that applicable rules and regulations were complied with.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary is a matter for the board as a whole.
82 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 On appointment, all directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a public listed company.
The Company has a policy based on the Model Code published in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings in securities and applies to directors and senior management.
In accordance with the revised Code, directors have the benefit of legal protection through Directors & Officers Liability coverage and have also been granted indemnity by the Company against certain potential liabilities they might face in their capacity as directors subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information and briefing papers are distributed to all directors.
No meetings of the Board are held in the United Kingdom and the majority of meetings are held in Switzerland.
The Board has three formally constituted committees, each of which has formal terms of reference.
Each of the Committees have written terms of reference that clearly set out their authorities and duties and are in accordance with the Code.
The terms of reference of each committee were updated in December to conform with the revised Code and can be seen on the Company website.
ii Audit Committee The Committee is composed of three independent non-executive directors.
Sir Steve Robson is the Chairman of this Committee and the other members are Dr. Fred Roux and Ian Strachan who, until his appointment to the Board on 8th May 2003, attended the Committee as an external consultant.
With his appointment as director, there was full compliance with the Code.
The Committee met three times in the year.
Four meetings are scheduled for 2004.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Controller, a representative of the Companys external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend the meetings.
Other directors of the Company and senior management may also, on invitation by the Committee, attend and speak but not vote at any meeting of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management, internal control systems and operations which includes the half year and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors, approves their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors.
It also meets with the external auditors in the absence of management on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors, through: seeking confirmation that the external auditors are, in their professional judgement, independent of the Group: obtaining from the external auditors an account of all relationships between the auditors and the Group: and considering whether, taken as a whole, the various relationships between the Group and the external auditors impairs the auditors judgement or independence The Group has a specific policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors.
Under that policy the auditors are prohibited from performing services which: result in the auditing of their own work: result in the auditors participating in activities normally undertaken by management: put the auditor in the role of advocate for the Group: or create a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are not in conflict with auditor independence.
Six monthly reports are made to the Audit Committee detailing non-audit fees paid to both the external and internal auditors.
However, prior approval of the Committee is required for any services provided by the external auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of $50,000.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT iii Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte.
As Chairman of the Company and Chairman of Glencore, he is not considered to be an independent director.
David Rough and Paul Hazen, the other members of the Committee, are both nonexecutive directors and independent.
The Committee met twice during the year.
During the year, the Committee had responsibility for considering and making recommendations to the Board in regard to all elements of the remuneration for the executive directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee receives independent advice on benchmarking and best practice.
In December 2003, the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee were amended to conform precisely with the revised Code.
Details of the Companys remuneration for executive directors, benefits, share options, pensions entitlements, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 98.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the AGM.
iv Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by David Rough and comprises three non-executive directors.
David Rough and Robert MacDonnell are also independent.
Ivan Glasenberg is not considered independent.
The terms of reference provide for a formal and transparent procedure.
The Committee has responsibility to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for board vacancies and to make recommendations on Board composition and balance.
Since all directors were elected or re-elected on 8 May 2003, no meetings of the Committee were held in the year, only one meeting was called in 2003 but postponed.
Three meetings are scheduled for 2004. v Executive Committee In addition to the three Board committees, there is an Executive Committee which is a committee of the board of Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main trading subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The Executive Committee obtains its responsibility and authority from the Xstrata Schweiz AG Board and is directly accountable to the plc Board.
It is chaired by Mick Davis and comprises executive directors, Trevor Reid the Chief Financial Officer and Santiago Zaldumbide also Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc together with the Chief Executives of the other Business Units, Peter Coates Xstrata Coal, Peet Nienaber Xstrata Alloys, Charlie Sartain Xstrata Copper and Marc Gonsalves General Manager, Corporate Affairs.
Other members of the senior management are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings as required.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing strategy, approval of matters consistent with its delegated levels of authority and overseeing the various businesses which comprise the Group.
It meets regularly during the year and no meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
Directors Remuneration Details of remuneration paid to the Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 98.
Share Ownership: The non-executive directors are given the opportunity to notify the Company what proportion if any of the post-tax amount of their fees for each year they wish to apply to acquire Ordinary shares.
The price at which they may acquire these Ordinary shares is the higher of the nominal value of the Ordinary share and the exercise price which is set in respect of the next grant of options under the Xstrata LTIP following the notification.
No notifications were received in respect of 2003.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places considerable importance on effective communication with shareholders.
All shareholders can obtain access to the annual report and accounts and other current information about the Company through the Companys website at http: www.
The Financial and Operating Reviews on pages 15 to 73 include a detailed report on the business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcements of the year-end results and at the half year.
Care is taken to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with London and Swiss Stock Exchange requirements.
84 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2003 The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with institutional and private investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman will aim to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees are present at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution will be announced, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2004 can be found in the notice of the meeting.
Accountability and Audit The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and clear assessment of the companys financial position and prospects.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report, Financial and Operating Reviews contained in this Report.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in respect of the preparation of the accounts is set out on page 99.
The directors set out on page 99 the basis of their view that the business is a going concern.
i Internal Control The Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and relies on reviews undertaken by the Audit Committee with respect to the Groups compliance with the Turnbull Guidance with specific reference to risk management and internal control systems.
The principal aim of the system of internal control is the management of business risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives with a view to enhancing over time the value of the shareholders investment and safeguarding the assets.
The internal control systems have been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The systems of internal control operating throughout the Group are articulated for the information and guidance of the directors and all employees in an internal statement of the Xstrata Internal Control Framework.
Guidance for directors on the internal control aspects of the revised Code Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on The Combined Code was published in September 1999 and is known as the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company complied with the Turnbull Guidance throughout the year.
ii Control environment The key elements and procedures that have been established to provide an effective system of internal control are as follows: Organisational Structure A well-defined organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority has been established.
The way the Group conducts its business, expectations of management and key accountabilities are embodied in the Groups policies, its Statement of Business Principles and Board Level Authority Limits.
The Group operates a decentralised management model with appropriate authority delegated to commodity business unit boards for Xstrata Alloys, Xstrata Coal, Xstrata Copper and Xstrata Zinc.
The Business Units are responsible for profitability to the level of earnings before interest and taxation EBIT.
Business Unit Boards meet regularly and either the Groups Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer are members of those Boards with other members who are independent of Business Unit management.
The Board sets overall policy and delegates the authority to implement that policy to its commodity business units and supporting functions.
Group policies are established by head office management for application across the whole Group.
