32 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Corporate governance Corporate governance is the process by which to the profitability forecast for these contracts.
companies are controlled and directed.
The UK The Board reviews annually the companys Statement of Listing Authority has issued the Combined business plan, its strategy and management Code the Code that provides UK listed resources.
directors companies with principles and detailed provisions on what constitutes best practice in The attendance by individual director at responsibilities corporate governance.
BAE Systems is meetings of the Board and its Committees in required to report to shareholders on how it 2003 is shown in the table opposite.
applies the principles in the Code and either to Company law requires the directors to confirm that it complies with the Codes The terms of reference of the Boards prepare financial statements for each provisions or to explain why it has not.
Nominations, Audit and Remuneration financial year that give a true and fair view of Committees state that only members of those the state of affairs of the company and the In July 2003, a revised Code was published particular committees have a right to be group and of the profit or loss for that period.
and the UK Listing Authority stated that its present at their meetings.
The membership of In preparing those financial statements, the provisions would be annexed to the Listing these committees is reviewed periodically to directors are required to: Rules with the intention that this would apply ensure that undue reliance is not placed on select suitable accounting policies and then in place of the existing Code in due course.
The last such review was apply them consistently: are obliged to report to shareholders under the undertaken in April 2003. existing Code for 2003 but will report under make judgements and estimates that are the revised Code next year.
However, the Board Whilst the Board has delegated the normal reasonable and prudent: recognises that the revised Code is seen by operational management of the company to state whether applicable accounting many as the current best practice for UK the executive directors and other senior standards have been followed, subject to companies.
Therefore, the Board has managers it has agreed a schedule of matters any material departures disclosed and considered the revised Code and in this report that are reserved for its decision.
This explained in the financial statements: and it provides details of how the principles in the schedule includes: existing Code and the revised Code have been approving the group strategy and business prepare the financial statements on the applied within BAE Systems.
plan: going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company ensuring that the company has proper BAE Systems was compliant with the will continue in business.
reporting and internal control systems and provisions of section 1 of the existing Code that appropriate polices are in place to throughout 2003.
The directors are responsible for keeping cover matters such as political and proper accounting records which disclose with charitable donations, health, safety and the Directors reasonable accuracy at any time the financial environment, employment and the export of The Board of BAE Systems recognises that it position of the company and to enable them defence equipment: is responsible for the leadership of the to ensure that the financial statements approving changes to the companys capital company and that in discharging this comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They structure: responsibility it is required to take decisions have general responsibility for taking such objectively and in the best interests of the steps as are reasonably open to them to approving major changes to risk company.
The Board has set a vision, values safeguard the assets of the group and to management policies, treasury policies and and standards for BAE Systems.
Our vision prevent and detect fraud and other the group pension schemes: and and values are communicated across the irregularities.
approving the acquisition and disposal of company and guide the work undertaken by assets above certain limits set by the everyone in BAE Systems.
single document, the Operational Framework, has provided all employees with details of the The Operational Framework sets out the standards of behaviour and key policies that groups organisation structure together with the are mandatory across the company.
The areas attendant delegated authorities.
Within these, covered by it include: the Board has recognised that the terms on business ethics which the company accepts complex long-term business planning contracts is critical to the performance of the risk management company.
Therefore, the Board has determined internal control that all contract bids and tenders above a personal behaviour.
certain limit must be approved by it and, given the different risk profiles of the various stages Further details of the key business processes of a long-term design and build contract, has described in the Operational Framework appear set guidelines on the nature of the contracting below see business management.
arrangements that it is willing to approve.
Six regular board meetings are scheduled Chairman and chief executive during the year and usually a number of The chairman and chief executive have been additional meetings are called as required.
In appointed separately and there is a clear 2003, the Board met on nine occasions.
At division of responsibilities between these two each regular meeting the Board reviews the positions.
The chairman is responsible for the companys performance against the agreed effective working of the Board and setting the business plan, major contracts and variances BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 33 The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees Professional development in 2003 was as follows: The chairman has asked the chief executive to ensure that the training and development Director Board AuditRemuneration Nominations needs of the executive directors are Professor S Birley 9 9 5 5 6 6 5 6 understood and addressed.
Also, he has asked Sir Robin Biggam 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 the company secretary to work with the Mr K C Brown 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 non-executive directors to provide the Dr U Cartellieri 7 9 3 3 2 3 resources and assistance required to keep Sir Richard Evans 9 9 6 6 their skills and knowledge current.
In addition, Mr C V Geoghegan 8 9 the non-executive directors are regularly Mr M J Hartnall 4 4 3 3 provided with opportunities to develop their Lord Hesketh 9 9 4 5 6 6 4 6 understanding of the company by visiting its Mr M Lester 8 9 facilities and meeting employees.
Sir Charles Masefield 3 3 When a director first joins the Board, the Sir Peter Mason 8 8 5 5 3 3 company secretary is responsible for ensuring Mr S L Mogford 8 9 that an induction programme is provided to Rt Hon M Portillo 9 9 2 3 3 3 meet the needs of the new director.
Typically, Mr M H Ronald 9 9 this process will cover the duties of a director, Mr G W Rose 9 9 familiarisation with the companys core Mr P Scaroni 6 9 2 5 processes and system of internal control as Mr M J Turner 9 9 well as gaining an understanding of the various Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended businesses by meeting senior managers including attending meetings of the Nominations and Compensation Committee that was replaced by separate Remuneration and throughout the company.
New directors also Nominations committees on 29 April 2003 meet major shareholders if this is requested.
The company secretary, through the chairman, agenda for its meetings.
The chief executive is During 2003, the Nominations Committee is responsible for advising the Board on responsible for all operational matters.
To initiated the search for a successor to the governance matters.
ensure that the non-executive directors are present chairman, Sir Richard Evans.
This has properly informed of matters affecting the involved a detailed process of identifying the Performance evaluation company the chairman and chief executive skills and experience that the ideal candidate The Board has considered the requirement in meet with them as a group on a regular basis.
for this position requires as well as the the revised Code to evaluate its own amount of time that the individual will need to performance and that of its committees and Appointments to the Board the Nominations devote to the role.
The companys major individual directors.
The best means of Committee shareholders have been consulted as part of effectively undertaking this are being evaluated The Board has formed a Nominations this.
It is anticipated that the search for Sir with a view to this process being completed Committee the Committee that has been Richards successor will be concluded shortly.
The performance of the chairman charged with nominating suitable candidates has been evaluated by the non-executive for the Board to consider appointing as Board balance and independence directors led by the senior independent directors of the company.
The terms of At present the Board comprises 14 directors, director, Sir Peter Mason.
reference of the Committee were agreed during half of whom are non-executive.
During 2003, 2003 and conform with best practice for such the Board considered that all of the Re-election committees as recommended by Derek Higgs non-executive directors were independent The companys Articles of Association require in his report on corporate governance under the provisions of the existing Code.
that all new directors seek re-election to the published in 2003.
Board at the next Annual General Meeting The Nominations Committee and the Board AGM after appointment.
In addition, all The Committee considers the mix of skills and have reviewed the provisions in the revised directors are required to stand down and seek experiences that the Board requires and seeks Code and have concluded that since the re-election to the Board at least once every the appointment of directors to meet its beginning of 2004, under the definitions used, three years.
assessment of what is required to ensure that six of the current non-executive directors are the Board is effective in discharging its independent and one, Lord Hesketh, is not.
The Committee appoints This is because he and Mr Turner are both The remuneration of executive directors is external consultants to assist it in identifying directors of Babcock International Group and determined by the Remuneration Committee candidates for nomination to the Board.
he has been on the Board for more than ten the Committee which comprises solely Spencer Stuart was appointed to provide such years with effect from the beginning of 2004. non-executive directors.
As a result, at least half of the Board does not remuneration policy the Committee seeks to comprise independent non-executive directors provide appropriate levels of remuneration for During the year the Committee considered the as proposed in the revised Code.
The senior executives and balance the interests of time that it believed a non-executive director Nominations Committee and the Board are shareholders by: would normally be required to commit to his or aware of this and will be taking it into her duties including serving on the Boards consideration in their plans for the future positioning basic salaries at median committees.
Details of these time composition of the Board.
competitive levels whilst seeking to reward commitments have been included in individual potential upper quartile performance with non-executive directors letters of appointment.
The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as upper quartile remuneration: its senior independent director.
34 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 aligning corporate and individual the company and ask questions on the The directors have completed a formal review performance criteria for incentive-based matters put to the meeting, including the of the effectiveness of the companys internal remuneration with the interests of report and accounts.
In order to assist the Board in this shareholders: and entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the review, an Operational Assurance Statement AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, OAS is produced by each part of the maintaining a personal shareholding policy the companys Articles of Association require business.
It is signed off by the relevant of up to 200% of base salary.
that a poll is taken on all the resolutions in the managing director to confirm compliance with No director is involved in deciding his own Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes on the Operational Framework, including remuneration.
The chairman of the Committee the resolutions will be published on the operational and financial controls and risk consults the chairman of the Board and or the companys website.
The OAS is chief executive, as appropriate, about completed every half year and includes a proposals relating to the remuneration of other Business management formal assessment of business risk.
The fees of the The Operational Framework sets out non-executive directors are determined by the managements responsibility for identifying, As with any system of internal control, the Board but the non-executive directors evaluating and managing risk and performance policies and procedures that are mandated in themselves do not participate in board throughout the year.
Reporting within the the Operational Framework are designed to discussions or vote on matters concerning company is structured so that key issues are manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure their fees.
The company maintains contact with escalated through the management team to achieve business objectives, and can only its principal shareholders in respect of ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
The provide reasonable and not absolute changes to remuneration policy.
Operational Framework provides a common assurance against material misstatement or framework across the company for operational loss.
The Committee appoints remuneration and financial controls.
The business processes consultants when reviewing remuneration detailed within the Operational Framework draw The responsibility for internal control policy or, where appropriate, requests the on global best practice and their application is procedures within joint ventures and other company to appoint them on its behalf.
The mandated across the organisation.
Lifecycle collaborations rests, on the whole, with the group human resources director who is not a Management LCM is such a process.
LCM is senior management of those operations.
The Board member, as primary internal adviser to applicable to all projects and, properly applied, company monitors its investments and exerts the Committee, takes care to recognise and is key to assisting effective project influence through Board representation.
avoid any potential conflict of interests when management from inception including the bid advising the Committee: the same applies process through to product delivery and, Going concern when the chairman and chief executive are ultimately, customer support.
After making due enquiries, the directors have consulted by the Committee on matters a reasonable expectation that the group has concerning the other executive directors.
Further key processes are Integrated Business adequate resources to continue in operational Recognising this potential conflict of interest, Planning IBP, monthly Contract Status existence for the foreseeable future.
For this the Committee requires that proposals for Reviews, Quarterly Business Reviews QBR reason they continue to adopt the going changes to remuneration policy are and Monthly Finance Reviews.
The IBP concern basis in preparing the accounts.
underpinned by the provision of externally approved annually by the Board, results in an validated data.
agreed long-term strategy for each business Audit Committee report A more detailed statement of remuneration group, together with detailed near-term The Boards Audit Committee the Committee policy and audited information relating to the budgets.
The QBRs evaluate progress against is chaired by Michael Hartnall who until remuneration of each director is incorporated the IBP and are chaired by the chief operating recently was the finance director of a major into the remuneration report on pages 36 to officers and the group managing director of the UK-listed company.
In addition to Mr Hartnall 45.
there are a further three members of the Committee.
The Committee normally asks the The company is committed to the protection of companys chief executive, finance director and Relations with shareholders its assets, which include human, property and internal audit director to attend its meetings The company has a comprehensive investor financial resources, through an effective risk together with the external auditors.
During the relations programme aimed at providing management process, underpinned where year the Committee has met on occasions with existing and potential investors with a means appropriate by insurance.
no executive directors present and has also of developing their understanding of the met with only the internal audit director or the company and raising any concerns and issues The internal audit team independently reviews external auditors present.
The Board as a whole receives the risk identification procedures and control regular reports on investor relations matters.
It Prior to 2003, the Committee was scheduled In addition, it has been agreed that each year provides objective assurance as to the to meet three times each year.
Following a it should formally review investor relations operation and validity of the systems of review of the work that the Committee wished issues with a view to ensuring that all internal control through a programme of to undertake during the year it was decided members of the Board are acquainted with any cyclical reviews making recommendations for that four meetings should be scheduled for issues or concerns that major shareholders business and control improvements.
This review will be facilitated by a has agreed an annual programme of matters survey of shareholder opinion undertaken Internal control to be covered by the Committee at these beforehand and the results presented to the The overall responsibility for the system of scheduled meetings.
internal control within BAE Systems rests with the directors of the company.
Responsibility for In 2003, the Committee considered the report The AGM provides shareholders with the establishing and operating detailed control produced by Sir Robert Smith on audit opportunity to develop their understanding of procedures lies with the managing director of committees and, whilst the Committee was each operating business.
largely compliant, a number of actions were BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 35 taken to ensure that the Committee was fully The company has established an employee compliant with this most recent statement on hotline to provide a means by which employees best practice.
The recommendations in the can raise any concerns they may have about Smith Report have been adopted by the unethical business conduct.
To help ensure Financial Reporting Council and are now that employees have confidence in this included as part of the revised Code.
arrangement the hotline is provided by a third party who passes details of calls or e-mails The Committees terms of reference were received to the internal audit director.
revised during 2003 and now incorporate fully the provisions contained in the revised Code.
The Committee receives a report on individual contacts made to the hotline which includes a Since the beginning of 2003 the Committee summary of the nature of the issue raised and has, amongst other things, undertaken the details of any action taken.
following in order to discharge its responsibilities: The Committee has formally reviewed whether there are any factors that may prejudice the reviewed the financial statements in the independence of the external auditors the 2002 and 2003 annual reports and the auditors.
As part of this review the Committee interim report issued in September 2003.
As recognised that, in addition to the statutory part of this review the Committee received work undertaken by the companys auditors, reports from the external auditors on their there will be certain work of a non-audit nature audits of the annual reports and review of that is best undertaken by the auditors.
It the interim report: believes that, provided suitable controls are in reviewed the effectiveness of the companys place, undertaking this work does not internal controls and disclosures made in compromise the auditors.
The following the annual reports on this matter: specific actions have been taken by the reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit Committee to safeguard the auditors work to be undertaken by the external independence: auditors: rules have been issued controlling the nature agreed guidelines for employment of former and quantity of non-audit work that may be employees of the companys external undertaken by the auditors: auditors: guidelines have been adopted restricting the considered a report from the external employment within the group of individuals auditors on their review of financial controls formerly employed by the auditors: across the group and received a report on the auditors are required to confirm in writing management action taken in response to the to the Committee each year that they believe management letter issued by the external that they remain independent within the auditors following the 2002 audit: meaning of the regulations on this matter agreed the fees paid to the external auditors and their professional standards: and for their audit of the 2003 accounts: the independence of the auditors is evaluated the performance of the external considered each year by the Committee as auditors: part of its formal review of their appointment.
evaluated the performance of the internal audit function: As reported to shareholders last year, the agreed a programme of work for the Committee has adopted a programme of companys internal audit function: undertaking a major review of the companys received a report from the internal audit auditors every three years and in the years in director on the work undertaken by internal between undertaking a review to monitor their audit and management responses to performance.
The next major review will be in recommendations made in the audit reports respect of the appointment of auditors for the issued by the function during the year: year ending 31 December 2006.
A review of the performance of the companys auditors reviewed its own effectiveness: and was undertaken recently by the Committee.
On monitored the work being undertaken by the the basis of this review the Committee group in preparation for the introduction of recommended to the Board that they support International Accounting Standards.
the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the companys auditors.
The Board has agreed with this recommendation and consequently a resolution to this effect will be put to shareholders at the companys AGM.
