30 Corporate governance statement The following statement describes the main principles of corporate governance and how they have been applied by Acambis.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE OF BEST PRACTICE Acambis has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published in 1998 by the Hampel Committee and the London Stock Exchange.
STATEMENT OF APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE Acambis has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice, as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in relation to Directors remuneration, in the remuneration report.
THE BIOINDUSTRY ASSOCIATION BIA CODE OF BEST PRACTICE BIA CODE In addition, Acambis, as a member of the BIA, has complied with the principles in the BIA Code and continues to do so by maintaining and developing procedures to support compliance with its specific provisions.
The BIA Code was introduced in 1999 and includes principles and provisions relating to corporate governance matters, access to external advice, confidentiality, dealings in a companys shares and standards of public announcements.
It is intended to operate by reference to the particular circumstances of bioscience companies in support of the Combined Code.
The BIA Code has been obligatory for all BIA members from 1 January 2000.
THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and three independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board of Directors meets, in person, at least six times a year and also on an ad-hoc basis as required.
It is responsible for the business and commercial strategy, monitoring progress, the approval of major transactions, and the approval of financial statements and operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The information provided to the Board includes strategic and operational reviews, management accounting summaries and specific reports that provide details in respect of the ongoing running of the business.
The Executive Directors are fully involved with the management of the Group at all levels, retaining overall direction and control of the Group.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board exists.
All Directors have access to professional advice and training at the cost of the Company and the services of the Company Secretary in the furtherance of their duties.
The Chairman meets during the year with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Board delegates the day-to-day responsibility of managing the Group to a number of committees, details of which are set out below.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is currently made up of all the independent Non-executive Directors, and, since his appointment on 25 March 2004, is chaired by Ross Graham.
It examines and reviews, on behalf of the Board, internal financial controls, financial and accounting policies and practices, the form and content of financial reports and statements, compliance with corporate governance best practice and the work of the external auditors.
Written terms of reference exist for the Audit Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors may be in attendance at meetings.
The Audit Committee meets, at a minimum, four times a year and at least once during the year without any Executive Directors present.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is made up of the Chairman and all of the independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Alan Dalby.
It determines, on behalf of the Board, the Groups policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration packages for the Executive Directors of the Group.
Written terms of reference exist for the Remuneration Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer may be in attendance at meetings, except when his own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee has access to professional advice in the furtherance of its duties.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 34 to 41.
