31 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman and all of the independent Non-executive Directors, and is chaired by Alan Smith.
It has responsibility for proposing to the Board, in the first instance, any new appointments of both Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Written terms of reference exist for the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee engages external recruitment agencies where appropriate.
The Chief Executive Officer may be in attendance at Nominations Committee meetings.
OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to an Executive Committee made up of the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, meets on a fortnightly basis and is responsible for the executive management of the Group.
It makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has applied principle D. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place since the start of 2000 and is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2000, the Group established a working committee specifically tasked to review and evaluate the risks to which the business is exposed.
This committee is made up of members of the Executive Directors of the Board as well as certain members of senior management, all of whom assume different operating responsibilities within the business.
Each member participates in the ongoing risk-management process and, ultimately, its findings are reported to the Board.
This has been further strengthened in 2004 with additional personnel to support SarbanesOxley compliance.
In compliance with provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based, principally, on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the need to have an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
As of the date of this Annual Report, based on the assessment of the Board of Directors, there were no changes in the Groups internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.
RISK FACTORS As with any business, there are risks and uncertainties relevant to Acambis business.
These have been qualified by reference to factors that affect the majority of businesses, factors that are common to businesses in the biotechnology sector, factors common to businesses working in vaccines, and those specific to Acambis.
32 Corporate governance statement THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS, WHILST PERTINENT TO ACAMBIS, ARE CONSIDERED TO BE COMMON TO ALL BUSINESSES Inaccurate forecasts leading to overestimate of profit, unexpected calls on reserves or significant unexpected increases in working capital requirements may lead to Acambis being unable to trade as a going concern.
In addition to normal accounting requirements, there are requirements that need to be met in order that Acambis maintains its listings on the London Stock Exchange and on NASDAQ.
New or revised accounting standards and rules introduced from time to time by UK, US or other international accounting standard setting boards could have a material adverse impact on Acambis reported financial results.
Every company needs to balance its product portfolio against market projections and demands and to ensure that it has the right mix of employees in skill and number to meet its targets.
Acambis, in common with every other business, is subject to the increasing cost and decreasing availability of insurance.
Acambis has no control over changes in inflation or interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic factors affecting its business or the possibility of political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which it operates.
These factors could materially affect Acambis future results of operations.
THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS, WHILST PERTINENT TO ACAMBIS, ARE CONSIDERED TO BE COMMON TO THE MAJORITY OF BIOTECHNOLOGY BUSINESSES There may be issues regarding the safety and efficacy of products both when licensed and while in clinical development.
Any failure of safety or efficacy could lead to a projects demise, the recall of a product, or the suspension or withdrawal of a necessary licence.
Acambis may not have the ability to take any particular research project through to market due to issues regarding safety and efficacy, the ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture, infringement of patents or intellectual property IP rights of others, or the lack of sufficient reserves to continue research and development to a satisfactory conclusion.
There are several issues relating to IP where patent applications may be denied, or issued patents may be challenged or otherwise not provide protection for any commercially viable product.
Owing to the nature of the field in which Acambis operates, there is a high project and product attrition rate and any product can fail at any stage of the process from initial investigation to final licensure, and products can be withdrawn at any stage even after they are licensed.
Furthermore, the nature of biotechnology research means that there are high front-end costs associated with products, which may have lead times to market of several years.
In addition, there are ethical issues associated with operating in the biotechnology sector, particularly regarding the obligatory requirements to precede human clinical trials with other in vivo testing, and ethical issues surrounding the availability and moral obligations in the conduct of clinical trials in humans.
The type of trial required is determined in discussion with the regulatory authorities and costs are widely influenced by the outcome of these discussions.
This may further affect Acambis ability to produce products at a reasonable cost.
In common with all biotechnology companies, Acambis may have insufficient funds for its products or operations either through the inability to raise future funds or by finding that fundraising is only available on unattractive or unacceptable terms, for example by shareholder dilution.
If additional funds cannot be raised as needed, this may result in the delay, reduction or elimination of some development programmes.
Acambis business may be negatively affected by the intense competition it faces from pharmaceutical and specialist biotechnology companies engaged in the development of vaccines in areas in which Acambis is engaged.
Competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may have superior products, manufacturing capabilities or marketing expertise.
Many of Acambis competitors may have greater financial and human resources and more experience in research and development R&D.
If Acambis fails to obtain adequate IP rights for its product candidates, competitors may be able to take advantage of Acambis R&D efforts.
The biotechnology field is characterised by significant and rapid technological change.
Research and discoveries by others may result in medical insights or breakthroughs that render Acambis product candidates obsolete before they generate any income.
Acambis is based in areas where there is intense competition for employees with biotechnology experience, which may lead to increased costs or decreased availability of staff.
Furthermore, the loss of key employees could weaken Acambis scientific expertise and delay the development of products.
Acambis is highly dependent on employees who have an in-depth and long-term understanding of its technologies, products, programmes, collaborative relationships and strategic goals.
The loss of these employees could have a negative impact on Acambis business and prospects.
33 In common with many biotechnology businesses, Acambis has entered into several significant commercial agreements and the success of products is, therefore, highly dependent on collaborators.
These collaborators have significant discretion over the resources they devote and Acambis cannot guarantee that third parties will devote adequate resources to the collaborations or that those products can be successfully commercialised without those collaborators.
THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS, WHILST PERTINENT TO ACAMBIS, ARE CONSIDERED TO BE COMMON TO THE MAJORITY OF COMPANIES WORKING IN THE VACCINES FIELD All companies working in vaccines for use in humans are subject to a severe regulatory environment.
Regulations enforced by government agencies could impose significant costs and restrictions on the development, testing, approval and manufacturing of pharmaceutical products for human use.
Lost market opportunities may result from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the US Food and Drug Administration FDA, the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and comparable agencies in other foreign countries.
In some countries, including the US and those of the European Union, regulatory controls have become increasingly demanding, increasing not only the cost of product development but also the time required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
Acambis expects that this trend will continue and will expand to other countries.
With regard to products, Acambis may face patient inertia and reluctance to change from branded products already on the market.
Product success will depend on Acambis being able to produce the product at a reasonable cost, convincing doctors to prescribe the product, patients accepting the product and the product being more effective than its competitors.
Where the purchaser is not a private individual, third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment may operate to constrain healthcare budgets and, therefore, the price of the product.
A significant proportion of future revenue may depend on payments by third-party payers, including government health administration authorities and private health insurers.
Acambis may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or limited.
For any vaccine, legal factors, including product liability claims, environmental concerns or patent disputes with competitors, could preclude commercialisation of any product or adversely affect the profitability of any product or give rise to liabilities for which there may be no or limited insurance coverage.
Finally, the cost of insurance has increased in all areas of business, and in the pharmaceutical industry specifically, and this trend may continue.
THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS ARE CONSIDERED TO BE SPECIFIC TO ACAMBIS Acambis has offices, personnel and listing obligations in both the UK and the US.
It is, therefore, subject to listing regulations in both the UK and the US.
In addition, Acambis has undergone, and continues to undergo, rapid change resulting from its transition from primarily an R&D entity to a profitable trading business.
Acambis has not yet completed the full clinical development and subsequent registration of any product candidate.
Acambis has a major contract with the US Government relating to manufacture of a smallpox vaccine and continuing the process of taking that investigational product through to licensure.
The costs associated with this programme and revenue recognition from it will have a material impact on Acambis financial results until the product is approved.
Acambis conducts a substantial part of its business outside the UK and is, therefore, subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate with other currencies, particularly the US dollar.
Acambis has only one manufacturing facility, which is in the US.
The loss of this facility may have a significant impact on its financial results.
This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
