Corporate governance Application of principles As required by the Combined Code, summarised below are the ways in which the principles of corporate governance are applied by the company.
The board Composition of the board The board currently consists of six executive and seven non-executive directors and their biographical details are summarised on pages 69 and 70.
JHF Anderson and DMA Wisniewski were appointed executive directors on 8 September 2003.
There have been no other changes to the board since 1 January 2003.
The chairman is E Bernerd and the managing director is WN Hugill.
Sir Bruce MacPhail is the senior independent director.
In formulating the board committees, regard has been taken of the public statements by various shareholding bodies on the criteria for the independence of non-executive directors including, in particular, the joint statement made by the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds in July 1999.
A nomination committee, responsible for the selection and approval of board members, was established in May 2002.
The members of the committee are E Bernerd, Sir Bruce MacPhail and Lubna Olayan.
Directors are required to submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and are then required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years.
It was announced on 26 January 2004 that an offer had been made to acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital of the company and that the offer had been recommended for acceptance by those directors who were regarded as independent for the purposes of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
In the event that the offer becomes unconditional, those directors, being MHA Broke, M Grabiner, Sir Bruce MacPhail and BJ Webb, intend to resign from the board.
The board is aware of the requirements of the new Combined Code which comes into effect for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In the event that the offer does not become unconditional and the company therefore remains a listed company, measures will be taken towards implementing the requirements of the new Combined Code.
Workings of the board The board meets at bi-monthly intervals and an agenda and a detailed set of board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings.
A number of matters, including major investment expenditure, nancing matters and dividend policy, are reserved for its approval.
On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive explanation of the groups business.
Visits to the groups activities and meetings with senior management are encouraged.
Given the background and experience of the board, it is considered that they do not require formal training on appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and there is an established procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the companys expense.
Directors remuneration A detailed report on  and terms of service is given on pages 20 to 25.
16 Accountability and audit The company has an audit committee which has been chaired throughout the year by Sir Bruce MacPhail.
MHA Broke, M Grabiner and BJ Webb have also been members throughout the year.
All members are non-executive directors.
The committee meets at least twice a year with the external auditors and monitors the controls established to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
It also reviews the financial statements before submission to the board.
Internal control The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group which has been in place during 2003 and up to the date of approval of the Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the guidance of the Combined Code.
In particular, the board has identied the following key areas of risk which are subject to regular review by the board or the audit committee.
i Financial Financial reporting There is a comprehensive financial planning and reporting framework.
Financial forecasts are produced on a regular basis and presented to the board for review.
There is also an in-built system of comparing actual results with the forecasts and the variances being explained and acted upon, if necessary.
Control procedures are documented and monitored and the results are presented to the audit committee.
Project appraisals Detailed appraisals are undertaken for all development and investment projects and all require director approval.
Expenditure or commitments over a specified level require the approval of the board.
Construction costs are monitored on a regular basis against cashow forecasts and project appraisals so that any necessary remedial action can be taken as soon as possible.
Treasury operations The group uses a combination of xed rate loans and interest rate swaps to reduce its sensitivity to interest rate uctuations to an acceptable level.
The proportion of borrowings that are at xed rates varies but is maintained within limits set by the board.
The xed interest period is matched to the term of the relevant income stream taking account of market rates quoted at the time.
Assets denominated in currencies other than sterling, such as properties held in the USA, are largely nanced by borrowings in those currencies so as to minimise the groups balance sheet exposure to foreign exchange movements.
Other exposures to foreign exchange are hedged with forward contracts where possible to x the rate at which these amounts are converted into sterling.
17 Corporate governance continued ii Risk management Risk overview Group strategy is updated and reviewed at each board meeting and, as previously stated, all projects are subject to detailed analysis.
Specic risks are identied at both an operating and financial control level and are notied to the audit committee together with suggested action.
Areas considered to contain greater risk are given higher priority.
A clear organisational structure has been established with dened roles of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Investments in joint ventures The company undertakes a significant proportion of its activities through a number of joint venture operations and in all cases the company has board or partnership representation.
In some cases, it also undertakes the principal management functions.
Environmental and community As explained on page 14, two directors hold specic responsibility for the companys policies towards community relations and the environment.
The company reports annually on its activities and performance and a separate report will be distributed later in the year.
Health and safety Health and safety standards are reviewed on a regular basis with the assistance of external specialists and there are procedures to ensure that all aspects of the groups activities are adequately covered.
Going concern At 31 December 2003, the group had net current liabilities of 347 million as a result of the unusually large proportion of bank loans falling due for repayment within one year of the balance sheet date: 348 million of bank loans had repayment dates falling due in 2004 out of overall bank borrowings of 989 million.
Of these loans falling due for repayment in 2004, 204 million related to Global Switch and will largely be renanced out of new facilities arranged for the purpose of completing the limited partnership with Morley Fund Management, to which further reference is made in note 32 ii to the financial statements, and the net proceeds receivable from Morley.
A further 50 million was secured on Riverside House and has subsequently been repaid following the sale of the property in February 2004.
Group gearing has remained high in the latter part of 2003 and into 2004 as most of the cash realised from asset sales has been reinvested in long term capital projects such as Merry Hill, White City and Global Switch.
Gearing percentages have also been adversely affected by the decrease in net asset value.
The groups bankers have been kept informed of the group gearing level and progress on the major transactions and relevant lenders have agreed to waive breaches of gearing covenant where necessary or have granted temporary increases to the permitted gearing levels.
significant decreases in borrowings are expected in the first half of 2004 with the sale of Riverside House, the renancing of the White City project and completion of the transfer of assets into the Global Switch limited partnership.
The Chairmans statement refers to the progress at White City with respect to project funding.
Unexpected delays to the closing of this nancing have meant that significant expenditure has been incurred in advance of external funding: this reduced the availability of funds in the latter part of the year and it proved necessary to arrange a short term facility in November 2003, secured by a second charge on Merry Hill.
As a result, the group had committed and undrawn facilities totalling 134 million at 31 December 2003.
18 Should the recommended offer for the company by Duelguide plc be accepted, the companys existing indebtedness will be renanced.
The directors of Chelseld plc understand that the offer has been subject to detailed financial analysis and, therefore, that Chelseld will continue to be able to satisfy the criteria for continuing to adopt the going concern basis of accounts preparation after the acquisition is effective.
Should the offer for the company not be completed, Chelseld will undertake a comprehensive renancing programme with its existing relationship banks.
Additional leverage against existing assets is therefore considered to be available in order to secure the groups cashow requirements should it remain as a listed company.
The directors therefore consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Relations with shareholders The company has an open approach to dealing with its shareholders and, having regard to its status as a listed company, tries to accommodate all requests for information and meetings whether individual or collective.
The company can also be contacted through its website, details of which are set out on page 68.
Arrangements are made for the notice of the Annual General Meeting to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Private investors are encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting at which the chairmen of both the audit committee and the remuneration committee are also present to answer any questions arising.
Statement of compliance The company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 except that non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms.
They are, however, required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
