Corporate governance report Grainger Trust plc is fully committed to the principles of good Shareholder relations corporate governance.
This report sets out how the group has The company meets regularly with institutional shareholders applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
and analysts and uses the annual general meeting to encourage The Joint Venture fell outside the scope of the groups corporate communication with private investors.
The chairmen of the three governance during the year, but will now be included following the board committees attend the annual general meeting and are acquisition of the remaining 50% on 26 September 2003. available to answer any questions.
The notice of the meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working The board days before the meeting.
Shareholders vote separately on each At the year end the board comprised three executive directors and proposal and a proxy count is available after each resolution.
seven non-executive directors, including the chairman.
The nonA separate resolution to approve the remuneration committee executive directors bring to bear a wide variety of experience and report is proposed at the annual general meeting.
Robin Herbert is the senior independent non-executive director.
Internal control The groups systems of internal control are the ultimate responsibility The board meets four times a year and at such meetings receives of the board of directors.
Such systems are designed to manage a full pack of information covering current trading performance, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business budgets, forecasts and details of business opportunities and risks.
objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute These packs also contain those matters which require full board assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Each year, on discussion and approval.
behalf of the board, the audit committee reviews the effectiveness of these systems, which are aimed at maintaining full and effective Procedures are in place to enable the directors to take independent control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and external advice when necessary, at the companys expense, and compliance issues.
This is achieved primarily by consideration of to have direct access to the company secretary if required.
Where the risks appertaining to the group and the monitoring of these necessary, appropriate training is provided to new appointees to risks, together with a review of the half year and annual financial the board.
On 14 October 2002, Stephen Dickinson resigned as statements and by discussion with the external auditors.
In addition, managing director and became non-executive deputy chairman.
the group has an internal audit programme, under which specific At the annual general meeting on 27 February 2003, Robin Oldfield areas of its activities are reviewed and reported upon on a regular resigned as a non-executive director.
John Barnsley was appointed basis.
The committee considers any issues or risks arising by the board as a non-executive director on the same date.
Given therefrom in order that appropriate action can be undertaken his experience, training was not considered necessary.
All directors for their satisfactory resolution.
are subject to formal re-election every three years at the annual general meeting and are appointed for one or two years under The group has an appropriate organisational structure which is specific contracts.
Directors appointed during the year are designed to allow the board to retain full control of the business.
subject to formal re-election at the next annual general meeting.
The group produces an annual budget together with longer term projections, which are presented to and approved by the board Board committees of directors.
At each meeting, the board discusses performance The board has established three committees: audit, nomination and against the budget and, where applicable, any revisions made to remuneration.
Membership of these committees is shown on the list the profit and loss and cash flow budgets.
of directors on page 22 and the remuneration committee report is set out on pages 28 to 32.
The board also discusses in detail, the projected financial impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their financing.
The audit committee meets four times a year, has written terms All such proposed substantial investments are considered by all of reference and consists solely of non-executive directors.
The directors and decisions are made either by the board of directors committee monitors the effectiveness of internal controls and or, where required between board meetings, by an executive receives external and internal audit reports.
The committee is also committee of directors.
The board is also responsible for the responsible for ensuring that the external audit function remains discussion and approval of the groups treasury strategy, including cost effective, independent and objective.
mitigation against changes in interest rates.
The nomination committee consists of two non-executive directors Going concern and one executive director.
It meets to consider the need for and After making enquiries, including the review of future anticipated suitability of all potential new board members.
cash flows and banking covenants, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
23 Grainger Trust plc Corporate governance report Compliance statement B1.7 to B1.10 Length of contracts With the exception of the provisions listed below, the company has, Two of the executive directors have contracts of over one year with throughout the year ended 30 September 2003, been in compliance no specific provisions for compensation for loss of office.
feels that this is necessary to ensure commitment and long-term continuity in achieving the groups objectives, which by virtue of the Code provision groups activities are also long-term in nature.
However, their original A3.2, B2.2, D3.1 Independence two year contracts are being reduced to one year over a period of The board considers that all non-executive directors are able to five years from 1 October 2002. bring independent judgement to bear on key issues.
It feels that longevity of service is an important attribute in a long-term business By order of the board as it provides both continuity and understanding.
It also feels that material shareholdings and cross directorships do not represent a materially conflicting business relationship.
Consequently, the board does not view any of longevity of service, cross directorships or material shareholdings in isolation as representing an impairment to independence.
Given this statement, the board believes that all non-executive Marie Glanville directors with the exception of Robert Dickinson and Stephen Company secretary Dickinson, are independent.
Under the terms of the Code, 16 January 2004 however, only Nichola Pease is considered independent.
24 Grainger Trust plc Corporate governance report
