24 Pillar Property PLC Report on corporate governance The company is committed to high standards Audit Committee The Audit Committee is The board reviews annually the risk profile of of corporate governance.
It has complied formally constituted with written terms of the group and considers the effectiveness with throughout the year, with the Combined Code reference.
Mr M C Stoddart is Chairman of the which it is managed.
issued by the UK Listing Authority relating to the Committee: the other members being the The groups management structure has principles of Good Governance and Code of remaining non-executive directors.
clearly delegated authority levels, functional Best Practice.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a reporting lines and accountability.
The group A summary of the companys procedures, year and more frequently if required.
Its primary operates a comprehensive budgeting and for applying the principles and the extent to task is to review the half yearly and annual financial reporting system, allowing which the provisions of Section 1 of the accounts, prior to submission to the board, management to monitor financial and Combined Code have been complied with, focusing in particular on accounting policies operational performance on a continuing basis appear below.
compliance, areas of management judgment and to identify and respond to business risks During the year ended 31 March 2003 and and estimates.
It acts as a forum for discussion before, and as, they arise.
at the date of this report, the board operated on internal control issues and reports to the Key elements of the internal control system as follows: board on the effectiveness of the groups include a list of matters reserved for approval system of internal controls.
It also controls the solely by the board.
Such items include The board The company is run by an effective appointment of the external auditors and approval of major transactions, control over board, which leads and controls the group.
reviews the volume of their non-audit services capital expenditure, acquisition and disposal The board comprises five executive directors, provided to the group.
of major fixed assets, borrowing limits and including the Chairman, and five non-executive treasury policy.
The board must also approve directors.
They all bring a wide range of Remuneration Committee The Remuneration all major contracts and those that involve experience and skills to the company.
Committee is specifically charged with material ongoing business risks, liabilities Directors are required to retire by rotation determining the companys policy on executive or commitments.
every three years and, if appropriate, put directors remuneration.
It meets at least once a Responsibility for maintaining an appropriate themselves forward for re-election.
Directors year and comprises all non-executive directors relationship with the groups auditors and their over the age of 70 must seek re-election and is chaired by the senior non-executive various other business departments is vested in annually.
All executive directors are appointed director Sir Derek Hornby.
with notice periods of termination not being Full details of each directors remuneration, Whilst any system of internal control can greater than one year.
The roles of Chairman including share options and bonus payments, provide only reasonable and not absolute and Chief Executive are separate and clearly are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
assurance against material misstatement or defined.
Four of the non-executive directors Internal control The Combined Code has loss, the board places reliance on adherence are independent from management and have introduced the requirement that directors review to the companys control framework and has no commercial or other connection with the the effectiveness of all internal controls and not reviewed the effectiveness of the system of company.
The fifth, Mr J M Mara is a senior purely internal financial controls.
Due to its size, the group does officer of General Electric Investment Company, The directors operate the company in not currently have an internal audit function which is a major shareholder of the company.
accordance with its Articles of Association, although this matter is reviewed annually.
The full board meets six times a year on a which set out the overall operating framework formal basis and is supplied in a timely manner Relations with shareholders The executive of the group.
The board acknowledges its with information in a form and of a quality directors meet institutional shareholders and responsibility to maintain a sound system of appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
analysts after the announcement of the interim internal control, which safeguards shareholders The executive directors meet weekly: they and final results, and on other occasions as investment in the company and controls the focus on major transactions, business growth, appropriate, to ensure the companys objectives companys assets.
The system of internal strategy, cash management, financial and strategy are well understood.
control is designed to meet the companys performance and control.
The directors appreciate the importance of particular needs and risks to which it is A formal procedure exists to allow directors private shareholders in the company and use exposed, and by its nature it can only provide to take independent professional advice and the the companys Extraordinary General Meetings reasonable but not absolute assurance against company will meet such reasonable expenses and Annual General Meetings as further material misstatement or loss.
that arise in taking such advice.
All directors opportunities to communicate with private Within the financial and overall objectives have access to the Company Secretary for his investors.
for the group that are agreed by the board, advice and services.
The number of proxy votes is disclosed at the management of the group as a whole is The approval and appointment of directors is general meetings.
delegated to the executive directors.
The board a matter for the entire board.
reviews the groups strategic direction.
