Report on corporate governance Compliance with the Combined Code The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year, the Company complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code, except to the extent set out below.
Application of principles of good governance The Board and its committees The Board currently comprises four executive and four non-executive directors.
The executive directors are responsible for the management of all the Groups business activities.
The non-executive directors are all independent of management and contribute independent judgement and extensive knowledge and experience to the proceedings of the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The Board meets at least nine times a year and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, if necessary.
The Company complies with the provisions of the Combined Code with regard to the Board, except that Keith Brooks has a service agreement requiring 24 months notice and, whilst the non-executive directors are required to retire by rotation, their appointments are not for a specified term.
Three of the non-executive directors are considered to be fully independent in the context of the Combined Code, namely Charles Scott, Tim Simon and Gareth Jones.
G Stanley Thomas is independent of management, but has a significant interest in the shares of the Company as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board is assisted by four committees: Audit Committee chaired by Charles Scott the senior independent director and also comprising Tim Simon and Gareth Jones, the Audit Committee normally meets at least twice a year with the Groups internal and external auditors to review the accounting policies and procedures of the Group, its internal financial controls, and to consider any matters raised by the auditors.
The Audit Committee receives a written statement from the auditors at least annually, setting out the services provided by them to the Group, which assists the Committee in ensuring that the auditors independence and objectivity are maintained.
In the case of significant non-audit projects where the directors believe that the auditors have the necessary expertise, they would be allowed to tender if the directors were satisfied that the nature of the work presented no threat to the independence of the audit team.
Operations Audit Committee chaired by Gareth Jones and also comprising Keith Brooks, Caroline Price and Paul Kehoe, the Operations Audit Committee meets at least twice a year to review the Groups safety practices and procedures, operational risk management policies and internal operational controls.
Remuneration Committee chaired by Charles Scott, the Remuneration Committee, whose other members are G Stanley Thomas, Tim Simon and Gareth Jones, meets at least once a year, but in practice two or three times, to review executive directors remuneration and consider the Groups remuneration policies.
Nomination Committee formed on 1 August 2002, the Nomination Committee is chaired by Tim Simon and also comprises Gareth Jones and Keith Brooks.
It will meet at least once a year to review the structure of the Board and, as appropriate, consider candidates for appointment to the Board.
Directors remuneration The quantum and components of executive directors remuneration are determined by the Remuneration Committee in the light of the policies referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 29.
The Committee is responsible for establishing the contract terms, salaries, pensions and other benefits of the executive directors, including performance-related bonuses and executive share options.
64 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Report on corporate governance Relations with shareholders The Board attaches great importance to communications with all shareholders.
Enquiries from shareholders are dealt with as promptly as practicable and all shareholders receive copies of the annual financial statements and interim report.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to provide a full review of the Groups progress during the year and for shareholders to put questions to the directors, and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced to the meeting.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet frequently with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
Accountability and Audit The Combined Code requires the Board to review the effectiveness not only of the Groups system of internal financial controls but also of its internal operational controls.
Procedures have been in place throughout the year to ensure full compliance with this requirement.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Groups system of internal control accords with the Combined Codes guidance and has been regularly reviewed by the Board throughout the year.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups Business Risk Assurance Department includes a team of professionals, from a variety of operational and financial backgrounds, who work together in multi-disciplinary groups to review and address the operational, financial and commercial risks facing the Group.
This department, which comprises both operational and financial audit functions, reports regularly to the Audit Committee, Operations Audit Committee and to the Board on significant risks and safety issues and the action taken to manage them.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations throughout the world with a corporate risk management policy and strategy with documented lines of responsibility, a global risk database and risk registers, compliance audit strategies for overseas locations, Group standards in airfield operations and finance and tools for risk identification.
Statements of the responsibilities of the directors and the auditors are set out on pages 62 and 63.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis since the directors have reasonable expectation that, firstly, the Companys and Groups activities are sustainable and, secondly, that adequate resources are available to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
65 TBI Annual report and accounts 2003 Report on corporate governance
