Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Corporate governance is concerned with how companies are directed All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company and controlled and, in particular, with the role of the Board of Directors Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby and the need to ensure a framework of effective accountability.
Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at Abbeys expense.
Combined Code The Company Secretary is also charged with ensuring that all new This statement, together with the Remuneration Report, set out Board members are equipped to full their duties and responsibilities.
on pages 99 to 105, explains how Abbey has applied the principles As part of the early familiarisation programme, new non-executive of good practice in corporate governance set out by the Financial Directors are encouraged to meet the executive Directors individually Services Authority in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Abbey and engage in an induction programme of visits to different areas has complied with all the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined within the Company.
The induction and personal development of both Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2003.
The Financial executive and non-executive Directors will be reviewed during 2004 Reporting Council revised the Combined Code in the summer of 2003 in accordance with the provisions of the revised Combined Code.
to apply to accounting periods beginning on, or after, 1 November Non-executive Directors are appointed for a three year term after 2003.
Abbeys compliance with the Code therefore relates to which their appointment may be extended upon mutual agreement.
the version of the Code prior to its revision.
The Company intends It is envisaged that the maximum term for a non-executive Director to review its governance arrangements during 2004, this being the under this regime is unlikely to exceed nine years.
In accordance with first full accounting year to which the new code will apply.
the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year but over a three year period The Board all Directors must have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
At 31 December 2003, the Board comprised a Chairman, The Companys Articles of Association also require that a Director must seven executive Directors, including the Chief Executive, and six retire at the first Annual General Meeting after their 70th birthday.
independent non-executive Directors, all of whom bring a wide During 2003, important changes were made to Abbeys executive range of skills and experience to the Board.
As from 1 January 2004, responsibility structure.
Executive responsibilities are now structured the number of independent non-executive Directors has increased to with three main customer facing divisions, comprising: Customer seven.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separated and Operations, Customer Propositions and Customer Sales, supported clearly dened.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working by three support divisions, namely Human Resources, Information of the Board and the Chief Executive for the running of the business Technology and Central.
Key issues from these Divisions are reported and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Chief Executive to the Board on a monthly basis.
is assisted in managing the business on a day-to-day basis by the Executive Committee, which he chairs and which meets weekly and Committees of the Board comprises his direct reports.
The Chief Executive has established The Board maintains four standing committees, all of which operate the Customer Board, which is chaired by the Executive Director of within written terms of reference.
Their minutes are circulated for review Customer Propositions Division and which meets weekly.
In addition, and consideration by the full complement of Directors, supplemented each quarter the Chief Executive, a non-executive Director Vittorio by oral reports from the committee chairmen, or other members.
Radice, and an independent non-Director member, Waheed Ali, attend the Customer Board.
Audit and Risk Committee All the non-executive Directors are independent of management Keith Woodley Chairman and free from any business or other relationship which could materially Leon Allen interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
They make Richard Hayden a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby helping to ensure that no one individual or group dominates the Boards The Audit and Risk Committee met five times in 2003.
The Board met on 12 scheduled occasions of the Audit and Risk Committee is restricted to independent during 2003, including a separate session specically devoted to non-executive Directors.
They have a wide variety of skills and the long-term strategic direction of the Company.
The Boards focus experience including investment banking, commercial and senior is on strategy formulation, policy and control.
A corporate governance management and accounting expertise.
The Chairman is a chartered framework has been adopted by the Board, which identies its roles accountant and a previous President of the Institute of Chartered and responsibilities and how these are discharged.
Within this Accountants in England and Wales.
framework there is a Framework of Delegation, a formal schedule The Audit and Risk Committees primary tasks are to review the of matters that identies which decisions are reserved for the Board scope of external and internal audit, to receive regular reports from and how and which decisions are delegated.
Deloitte & Touche and the Chief Internal Auditor, and to review the Risk management continues to be critical and the Board preliminary results, interim information and annual financial statements devotes appropriate time to considering the significant risks see before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on Internal control below.
The Risk Committee plays an important role accounting policies and compliance, and areas of management by monitoring and controlling the level of structural balance sheet judgement and estimates.
The Committees scope was extended during and operational risk.
Risk Committee also oversees a number of 2003 to include risk oversight.
The Audit and Risk Committee more sub committees: principally the Consumer Risk Committee which generally acts as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and oversees high-level credit policies and exposures and the Asset and contributes to the Boards review of the effectiveness of the Companys Liability Committee which reviews balance sheet management risks.
internal control and risk management systems and processes.
The Audit The Life Risk Committee reviews and monitors risk in the life companies and Risk Committee also conducts a review of the remit of the internal including asset management, the Treasury Services Risk Committee audit function, its authority, resources and scope of work.
Abbeys reviews and monitors risk in the Treasury and Portfolio Business Unit.
relationship with the external auditors is monitored by the Audit and The sub committees report into the Risk Committee as appropriate.
Risk Committee and a framework for ensuring auditor independence The Board, at its regular monthly meetings, receives a regular risk report.
has been adopted which defines unacceptable non audit assignments, One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure that pre-approval of acceptable non-audit assignments and procedures for Board members receive sufficient and timely information regarding approval of other non-audit assignments.
corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their The Board has determined that Keith Woodley has the necessary duties.
The adequacy of this information is periodically reviewed.
qualications and experience to qualify as an audit committee 96 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance continued financial expert as dened for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley The number of full scheduled Board meetings and committee Act of 2002. meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Personnel and Policy Personnel and Remuneration Committee Scheduled Audit Remuneration Holder Board Committee Committee Review Lord Shuttleworth Chairman meetings meetings meetings Committee Peter Ogden retired 31 December 2003 Luqman Arnold 12 Leon Allen Leon Allen 11 5 8 The Personnel and Remuneration Committee met eight times Lord Burns 12 in 2003.
Membership of the Personnel and Remuneration Committee Richard Hayden 12 5 3 is restricted to non-executive Directors.
Its principal function is to Stephen Hester 12 monitor the human resource policies of the Company to ensure they Yasmin Jetha 12 are consistent with its business objectives and philosophy.
It is Malcolm Millington 8 charged with recommending to the full Board the Companys policy on executive Director and executive management remuneration.
The Angus Porter 5 Personnel and Remuneration Committee determines the individual Priscilla Vacassin 6 remuneration package of each executive Director.
Peter Ogden retired Tony Wyatt 4 as a Director and member of the Committee on 31 December 2003 Peter Ogden 11 8 and the vacancy on the Committee will be lled in 2004.
The Mark Pain 12 Remuneration report, including details of individual Directors remuneration packages, is to be found on pages 99 to 105.
Vittorio Radice 11 Lord Shuttleworth 8 Nomination Committee James Gallagher 3 Lord Burns Chairman John Foden 3 Lord Shuttleworth Keith Woodley 12 5 Keith Woodley Luqman Arnold Relations with shareholders The Nomination Committee meets when necessary.
The Nomination Abbey values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Committees primary function is to make recommendations to the Effective two-way communication with fund managers, institutional Board on all new Board appointments and also to advise generally investors and analysts is actively pursued and this encompasses on issues relating to Board composition and balance.
issues such as performance, policy and strategy.
During 2003, Abbey Directors held meetings with 93 institutional investors whose Policyholder Review Committee combined shareholdings represented over 43% of the total issued John Foden Independent Chairman ordinary share capital of the Company.
James Gallagher Independent Member Private investors are encouraged to participate in the Annual Richard Hayden General Meeting at which the Chairman presents a review of the results and comments on current business activity.
The Chairmen A new committee of the Board, the Policyholder Review Committee of the Audit and Risk, Personnel and Remuneration and Nomination held its inaugural meeting in September 2003 and met a total of Committees will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer three times during the year.
Its primary function is to consider and any shareholder questions.
provide the Board with an independent assessment of Abbey life This years Annual General Meeting will be held on 22 April 2004. business compliance with the Principles and Practices of Financial The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which is in plain English, Management, published from time to time in respect of each fund is circulated more than 20 working days before the Meeting and within the life business subsidiaries.
The Committees role will become Abbey will continue its practice of proposing only unbundled fully effective during 2004.
By 2005, the Committee may provide an individual resolutions.
annual report to policyholders in the with-profit funds on the work of the Committee and any other issues it considers relevant, stating Pension funds whether throughout the financial year to which the report relates, The assets of the main pension schemes are held separately from it believes the life business has complied with the principles and those of the Company and are under the control of the Trustees practices of financial management.
The four Abbey pension schemes have a common corporate trustee which, at 31 December 2003, had nine Directors, comprising six Company appointed Directors three of whom are Directors of Abbey together with three member-nominated Directors.
The National and Provincial Pension Fund has a different corporate trustee, the Board of which at 31 December 2003 comprised three Company appointed Directors, two of whom are Directors of Abbey, and three member-elected Directors.
As at 31 December 2003, the Scottish Mutual Assurance plc Staff Pension Scheme provides for a maximum of six trustees, of whom four trustees are selected by Scottish Mutual Assurance plc two of whom are members and two trustees are elected by the members.
In the case of the Scottish Provident Institution Staff Pension Fund, there is a maximum of eight trustees, of whom five at least one of whom is a member are selected by Scottish Provident Limited, as principal employer of the Fund: the remaining three trustees are elected by the active members from their number.
Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003 97 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance continued Asset management of the schemes is delegated to a number of fund A key feature of the risk management framework is the managers and the trustees receive independent professional advice segregation of duties between the customer facing Divisions and on the performance of the managers.
Asset management of the Abbeys support Divisions.
Together with other responsibilities, Scottish Mutual Assurance Staff Pension Scheme is through a Trustee Abbeys support Divisions define standards and guidelines which Investment Account invested in units of Scottish Mutual Assurances enable Board policies to be translated into operational practice Pooled Managed Fund.
Assets other than petty cash of the Scottish and also measure and monitor the overall risk exposures.
Provident Institution Staff Pension Fund are invested in a Managed The Board has established a process for reviewing the effectiveness Fund policy held with Scottish Provident Limited.
of the system of internal control through reports it, and the Board Legal advice to the trustees of the various schemes is provided committees, receive from the executive and risk committees and by external rms of solicitors.
The audits of the Pension Schemes various independent monitoring functions including Risk, Internal are separate from that of Abbey.
The audits of the Abbey pension Audit and Compliance.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board, as schemes and the National and Provincial Pension Fund are described above, makes an important contribution to this assurance undertaken by Grant Thornton.
The audits of the Scottish Mutual process.
Internal Audit provides independent and objective assurance Assurance Staff Pension Scheme and SPI Staff Pension Fund are that the processes by which significant risks are identied, assessed undertaken by KPMG Audit Plc.
and managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
Internal and External Audit utilise common protocols to report and escalate Going concern significant exceptions and Internal Audit follow up all significant The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Abbey group exceptions until satisfactory resolution by management.
of companies has adequate resources to continue in business for The Board undertook a formal annual assessment of the the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt overall risk management and internal control arrangements in a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
January 2004 in order to form a view on the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Internal control In December 2003, the Financial Services Authority ned The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the system of Abbey Companies a total of 2.3m for breaches of the Financial internal control covering all controls including financial, operational Services Authoritys Money Laundering Rules, and for systems and and compliance controls and risk management and for reviewing control breaches in Abbey National Asset Managers Ltd.
The Financial its effectiveness throughout Abbey.
Such a control system can only Services Authority stated that in their opinion both cases reected provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material wider compliance control failings, that are in the process of being misstatement or loss, and is designed not to eliminate risk, but to addressed by Abbey through a programme of review and enable Abbey to achieve its corporate objectives within a managed enhancement of its control environment.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk and control, whilst management is responsible for Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures designing, operating and monitoring risk management and control Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 processes to implement Board policies effectively.
Abbey has carried out an evaluation under the supervision The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, and with the participation of Abbeys management, including evaluating and managing Abbeys significant risks has operated the Chief Executive officer and Chief Operating officer, of the throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report effectiveness of the design and operation of Abbeys disclosure and Accounts.
This process has been subject to regular review by the controls and procedures.
There are inherent limitations to the Board and accords with the guidance contained in the Guidance on effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, Internal Control contained in the Combined Code.
During the year, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk management overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable improvement which come to the Boards and managements attention.
assurance of achieving their control objectives.
Based upon Abbeys The key elements of the process are as follows: evaluation, the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Operating officer Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the have concluded that, as of 31 December 2003, the disclosure controls Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that framework, which is revised during the year through one or more information required to be disclosed in the reports that Abbey les meetings devoted specically to the long term strategic direction and submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, of Abbey.
Annually, Abbey produces a three year plan to reect summarised and reported as and when required.
and respond to the strategic challenges facing Abbey, which is There has been no change in Abbeys internal control over approved by the Board.
Detailed financial and operating plans are financial reporting during Abbeys 2003 scal year that has materially developed for the year ahead and monthly reports are provided affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect Abbeys internal to the Board covering actual performance against plan, analysis of control over financial reporting.
significant variances, and scrutiny of key performance indicators.
Financial risks credit, market, liquidity, insurance and residual value and operational risks are considered on behalf of the Board by the Risk Committee and its sub committees as described in The Board section above.
The Board receives quarterly reports from the Chief Risk officer, and considers financial risk scenarios.
In addition there are a series of specic reports produced for the Board covering various aspects of operational risks and reporting on compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
The Executive Committee manages the business on a day to day basis and the Divisional Directors are responsible for embedding risk management and control in accordance with the corporate governance framework.
98 Abbey Annual Report and Accounts 2003
