CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating the highest standards of corporate governance.
In July 2003 two important documents were published The London Stock Exchanges revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance for all listed companies and the AITCs Code of Corporate Governance for Investment Trusts.
The purpose of the revised Combined Code is to enhance the effectiveness of boards and to improve investor confidence.
It is mandatory for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
Similarly, the AITCs Code of Corporate Governance complements The Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for boards of investment trusts.
The Board is responsible for good governance and this report outlines how the principles of The Combined Code were applied, unless otherwise stated, throughout the financial year.
The Directors are also aware that there are many other published guidelines relating to corporate governance and, whilst these receive diligent review and consideration, the Board does not believe it appropriate to address them individually in the Annual Report.
The Board is always available to discuss corporate governance issues with Shareholders.
THE BOARD COMPOSITION AND PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors is comprised of six non-executive Directors of which Mr Hughes acts as Chairman.
All Directors are considered to be independent notwithstanding that Messrs Hughes, Miller and Shaw have sat on the Board for more than 9 years.
The Board have decided to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Articles of Association, The Combined Code and the AITC by having all Directors seek re-election annually, as opposed to every three years.
The Company has no executive Directors nor any employees, however the Board has engaged external rms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
Clear documented contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these rms, which clearly set out the areas where the Board has delegated authority to them.
The Board meet at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor the investment performance of the Company compared to its benchmark index and in relation to comparable investment trusts.
The Directors also review the Companys activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy.
During the course of the year the Board reviews its composition having regard to present and future needs of the Company.
On 29 September 2003, the Board made the following announcement: i that Mr Buchan would be appointed to the Board on 11 November 2003: ii that, by the time of the 2005 Annual General Meeting, Mr Hughes will have served Shareholders as Chairman for 14 years.
Mr Hughes will therefore not seek re-election at that Annual General Meeting.
It is further anticipated that Mr Shaw will then assume the role of Chairman: iii that Mr Miller, having served Shareholders for 13 years, would not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: and iv that during 2004, a further independent Director will be sought in order to ensure the Board comprises no less than five and no more than six members.
The Board undertakes an annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role, processes and interaction with the Investment Manager.
The Directors also evaluated the performance of each Director.
Each Directors performance continues to be effective and each remain committed to the Company.
In line with the Boards policy, each Director retires at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 February 2004.
Messrs Hughes, Chiappelli, Cran and Shaw, whose biographical details are shown on page 6, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Buchan also offers himself for election.
23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT As the Board is small there is neither a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
Possible new directors are identied against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
External search consultants may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are considered.
New Directors are subject to election by the Shareholders at the first General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter at each subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company and the Company also maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance.
The following table sets out the number of Directors meetings including Committee meetings held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
During the financial year, 7 Board Meetings, 2 Audit and Management Engagement Committee meetings and 3 other meetings were held.
Audit and Management Board of Directors Engagement Committee Other Committees Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended W Y Hughes, Chairman 76 3 3 1 H N Buchan 2 M L A Chiappelli 77 22 3 3 J E G Cran 7 7 2 2 K M Miller 7 6 D R Shaw 7 7 2 2 1 2 appointed on 11 November 2003 Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company was formed to, and continues to, invest in a portfolio of small UK quoted companies.
The Board believes that regular contact with Shareholders, the majority of whom are institutions, is essential.
The Managers meet most of the institutional Shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
Directors of the Company periodically meet institutional Shareholders and are always available for discussion with any Shareholder.
Consequently the Company does not consider it necessary to designate one person as the senior independent director.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on page 6.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
As mentioned above, the Managers meet major Shareholders regularly to update them and in addition Company performance and other relevant information is available on the Aberforth Partners website at www.
The Company applies the guidance published by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in respect of The Combined Codes sections on Internal Control commonly known as the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT to the date of this report.
At least once a year the Directors formally review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and this process principally comprises receiving and examining reports from the rms to which services are subcontracted detailing the internal control objectives and procedures adopted by each rm.
Each report has been reviewed by the respective rms auditors.
The Directors have not identied any significant problems in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
The Directors have appointed an Audit and Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Mr Chiappelli.
This Committee, of which Messrs Buchan and Cran are also members, specically considers the financial reporting by the Company, the internal control principles adopted and the relationship with the Companys auditors.
In addition it reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
This Committee also formally reviews the terms of the agreements with the Managers and the Secretaries annually.
The Committee considers annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function.
However, as the Company has no employees and subcontracts all its business to third parties, it believes that an internal audit function is not necessary.
The terms of reference of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee and the Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on request.
VOTING POLICY AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Company is a shareholder in approximately 100 small companies ofcially listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Managers, Aberforth Partners.
Aberforth Partners exercise these voting rights on every resolution which is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company has invested.
Aberforth Partners vote against resolutions that they believe may damage Shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with the management of the company concerned.
Day to day management of the Companys portfolio of investments is carried out by Aberforth Partners.
The Directors are aware that the Managers give consideration to environmental issues, among many other factors, when investment decisions are taken.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE Subject to the special circumstances of the Company as an investment trust, the Company has complied with the provisions of The Combined Code issued in 1998 and the revised Combined Code during the financial year with the exception that there is no designated senior independent director and that neither a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee have been established.
These issues are explained above.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE AITC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company as a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies has complied with the provisions of The AITC Code of Corporate Governance during the financial year.
