BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Governance GOVERNANCE BG Group has an established governance framework built upon our Statement of Committed to high Business Principles and the eight Group Policies described in the preceding standards of corporate Corporate Responsibility section.
governance throughout Within this framework, corporate governance describes the system by BG Group.
which companies are directed and controlled.
BG Group shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and our American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed companies to include a statement on corporate governance in their annual reports.
The contents of this statement are prescribed in an annex to the Listing Rules the Combined Code.
This statement must include an explanation of how BG Group has applied the principles of the Combined Code and whether or not 28 it has complied throughout the year with all its provisions.
The Directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 with all the relevant provisions including Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Directors have also considered the implications of the new revised Combined Code issued in July 2003, which will apply to BG Group for the 2004 financial year.
The Directors consider that the Company is already substantially compliant with the new Code and will make any further adjustments to its governance framework as may be necessary during the course of the year.
US Corporate Governance Rules In November 2003, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC approved changes to the listing standards of the NYSE relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules, listed foreign private issuers, such as BG Group, must disclose any significant ways in which their corporate governance practices differ from those BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 followed by US domestic companies The Board of Directors MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD under the NYSE listing standards.
There Our Board maintains a system of internal 1 Approval of the Group vision, values are no significant differences in the controls to safeguard shareholders and overall governance framework: corporate governance practices followed investment and the Groups assets.
2 Approval of the Companys Annual by BG Group, as compared to those Where we have a minority interest, Report, Remuneration Report and followed by US domestic companies we encourage and help our partners to Accounts and Quarterly Financial under the NYSE listing standards.
The Board Statements: has a schedule of matters specifically The remainder of this section sets out 3 Approval of any interim dividend reserved to it for decision.
The Directors how BG Group has applied the principles and recommendation of the final biographies on page 50 demonstrate of the Combined Code during the year dividend: that the Board possesses the necessary ended 31 December 2003 and reports on 4 Approval of Group financial policy: range of backgrounds, qualities and other corporate governance matters.
5 Approval of material capital projects, experience to lead the Company.
investments, acquisitions and Relationship with shareholders and disposals by any Group company: BG Group has separate posts of Chairman Annual General Meeting and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is 6 Approval of the Companys long-term We recognise the importance of finance plan and annual capital and responsible for leadership of the Board: maintaining a purposeful relationship revenue budget: the Chief Executive is responsible for with our shareholders and recognise 7 Approval of any significant change leadership of the business and that they must receive high-quality, in Group accounting policies or managing it within the authorities relevant and useful information in a practices: delegated by the Board.
This division of timely manner.
We use the Annual 8 Approval of all circulars, listing responsibilities is clearly established and General Meeting AGM as an particulars, resolutions and agreed by the Board.
corresponding documentation sent opportunity to communicate directly to shareholders: with our shareholders.
Full details of the The Board currently consists of three 9 Approval of changes in the capital AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM on Executive Directors the Chief Executive, structure of the Company or its pages 19 to 21 of the Annual Review.
the Deputy Chief Executive and the Chief status as a plc and, in particular, the Financial Officer and nine non-executive We have an annual Investor Relations issue or allotment of shares in the Directors, including the Chairman and Programme and maintain a dialogue Company otherwise than pursuant 29 Deputy Chairman.
The Deputy Chairman to Company approved employee with our institutional shareholders in is also the Senior Independent Director share schemes: the UK and overseas.
In order to nominated by the Board.
10 Approval of material changes to the facilitate this dialogue, regular meetings Companys pension schemes rules, are held with institutional shareholders All Directors are subject to election by any change of Trustee or material following the announcement of shareholders at the first opportunity changes to funding and quarterly and annual results.
Copies after their appointment by the Board management arrangements: of all presentations to institutional and to re-election by shareholders every 11 Appointment, re-appointment and shareholders are available on the three years.
removal of the Chairman and BG Group website for a period of Directors and the recommendation six months.
to shareholders of their election or re-election under the Articles of Association: the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary: BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE 12 Approval of the division of BoardChairmans Audit Finance Nominations Remuneration Group responsibilities between the Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Chairman and Chief Executive: Committee Total number of 13 Establishing committees of the meetings in 2003 10 14 6 4 2 7 13 Board, approving their terms of reference including membership and Sir Richard Giordano 9 11 4 4 1 4 financial authority, reviewing their Frank Chapman 10 9 3 1 12 activities and, where appropriate, William Friedrich 10 10 3 11 ratifying their decisions: Ashley Almanza 9 14 3 11 Peter Backhouse 9 6 7 14 Recommendation to shareholders David Benson 8 4 5 for the appointment, re-appointment Sir John Coles 9 6 6 or removal of the auditors: Paul Collins 10 6 7 15 Approval of this schedule of Matters Elwyn Eilledge 10 6 2 7 Reserved to the Board.
Keith Mackrell 10 12 6 7 Dame Stella Rimington 9 4 2 6 Sir Robert Wilson 10 6 1 Lord Sharman 10 6 7 BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 The Company maintains Directors and receives remuneration other than Induction and training Officers liability insurance with a cover a directors fee: Appropriate training and briefing is limit of 200 million for each and every provided to all Directors on appointment has close family ties with any of the claim or series of claims arising from the to the Board, taking into account their Groups advisers, Directors or senior same set of circumstances.
individual qualifications and experience, employees: and ongoing training is also available to Board meetings holds cross-directorships or has meet their individual needs.
Regular Attendance is expected at all Board significant links with other Directors briefings are given to all Directors on meetings and at the AGM.
The Board through involvement in other relevant issues, including changes to is supplied with relevant and timely companies or bodies: or legislation and corporate governance information to enable it to discharge requirements, and teach-ins, workshops its duties.
and seminars are arranged on specific The Board meets regularly throughout The Board does not believe that any issues relevant to BG Groups business the year, including, in 2003, eight Director has served on the Board for a from time to time.
A table period that is likely, or could reasonably Board evaluation setting out the total number of meetings be perceived, to adversely affect the In 2003, the Board completed its second of the Board and its committees in Directors ability to act in the best interests annual effectiveness evaluation exercise, 2003 and individual attendance by each of the Group.
In reaching this conclusion, including for the first time a specific Director is shown on page 29.
In addition, the Board has specifically noted that review of the effectiveness of its principal the Board focuses on BG Groups Keith Mackrell and David Benson have committees.
This was an internal exercise strategy at its annual Planning served on the Board or its predecessors using a detailed questionnaire completed Conference and Directors participate for nine and fifteen years respectively by all Directors in relation to the key areas in various briefing visits both in the and concluded that, notwithstanding of Board accountability and the UK and overseas.
that period of service, they retain arrangements in place to enable effective independence of character and Company Secretary focus on these areas.
David Benson will retire Biographical details of the Company included Group strategy, performance, from the Board at the conclusion of Secretary are set out on page 52.
All our delegation and accountability, succession, the AGM on 21 May 2004.
Directors have access to the advice and development and reward, Board and 30 services of the Company Secretary New Chairman Committee composition, Board induction who acts as secretary to the Board, Sir Richard Giordano served as Chairman and training, internal control and risk the Chairmans Committee, the of the Board of Directors throughout management.
Remuneration Committee, the 2003 and retired on 31 December 2003.
The results of this exercise were issued Nominations Committee and the Group Sir Robert Wilson succeeded him on to and discussed by the Board.
Sir Roberts original recommendations were agreed and are Directors are free to take independent appointment was made following the being implemented, and progress with professional advice at BG Groups completion of an external search for implementation will be monitored and expense.
The Company Secretary seeks non-executive Directors with potential to reported.
The performance of individual to ensure that Board procedures are succeed the Chairman.
His appointment non-executive Directors is evaluated by followed and that applicable rules and as Chairman followed the implementation the Chairman.
She has of a nominations and appointment responsibility for all matters relating process involving the Nominations Committees to the Board, its committees and Committee, the Remuneration The Board has delegated authority to governance across the Group.
The Committee and a special Committee, the following committees on specific Company Secretary may be removed chaired by Keith Mackrell, Deputy matters.
These authorities are reviewed only with the approval of the Board.
Chairman and Senior Independent annually.
As a result of the latest review, Director, in addition to the Board as a the Board adopted revised terms of Independence whole.
The Nominations Committee reference for the Chairmans Committee The Board considers all its non-executive determined that Sir Robert Wilson was and principal Board committees in Directors to be independent in character independent in character and November 2003.
The terms of reference and judgement.
No non-executive judgement as defined under the new for all the committees or, in the case of Director: Combined Code both at the time of his the Audit Committee, the Charter, are has been an employee of the Group appointment to the Board and also at available on the BG Group website and within the last five years: the time of his nomination and copies are available on request.
has, or has had within the last three The minutes of committee meetings years, a material business relationship are circulated to all Directors.
The current with the Group: membership of each of the committees is shown on pages 50 and 51.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 BG GROUP BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE BG Group plc Board of Directors Audit Committee Chairman's Committee Remuneration Committee Assists the Board of Directors of the Company Advises and assists the Chairman in the Responsible for setting, reviewing and in fulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: preparation for Board meetings so that recommending to the Board the Groups the Board has issues and proposals overall remuneration policy and strategy overseeing the Groups financial reporting requiring Board resolution and approval and for setting, reviewing and approving process, including the internal control structure presented to it in a timely and efficient the remuneration of the Chairman and the and procedures for financial reporting and fashion.
With the exception of those Executive Directors and for reviewing monitoring the integrity and appropriateness matters reserved specifically for the Board, the remuneration of other Group Executive of the Groups financial statements the Chairmans Committee also acts on Committee members.
the manner in which the Groups management behalf of the Board between scheduled Further information about the ensures and monitors the adequacy of financial, meetings when, in exceptional circumstances, Remuneration Committee is contained operational and compliance internal controls it is not possible or practicable to convene in the Remuneration Report and risk management processes designed a meeting of the Board.
on pages 59 to 68. to manage significant risk exposures the selection, compensation, independence and performance of the Groups external auditors the independence and performance of the Groups internal auditors Finance Committee Group Executive Committee Nominations Committee Responsible for financing and treasury policy Responsible for the day-to-day Oversees and recommends to the Board all decisions concerning the Group, including management of the Companys business.
appointments of Directors and reviews the giving of guarantees and indemnities.
It focuses on four key areas strategy, Group succession planning for the Board.
performance, people and organisation 31 and has in turn delegated specific authority to six sub-committees: Investment Committee Exploration Committee Business Development Committee Health, Safety, Security and Environment Committee Policy and Risk Committee Energy Trading Risk Committee Audit Committee Report the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley 6 The independence and objectivity The Audit Committee meets the requirements.
Further details on their of the external auditors.
membership requirements of the qualifications for this purpose are set out 7 The 2003 external audit plan and Combined Code and of the US Sarbanesin their biographies on pages 50 and 51. associated audit fees.
All members of the The Audit Committee meetings in 2003 Committee are deemed to be independent 8 The external auditors quarterly and included consideration of the following: under both UK and US definitions.
1 Quarterly, interim and full year The members are Lord Sharman 9 The Groups internal control financial results.
Committee Chairman, Peter Backhouse, framework including the risk David Benson, Elwyn Eilledge and 2 The 2003 internal audit plan.
management process and progress Keith Mackrell.
Sir Richard Giordano and on the management of key risks 3 Quarterly and full year internal Sir Robert Wilson were members of the identified by the Group.
control and assurance reports from Committee until 31 December 2003. the internal audit function.
10 Corporate governance issues arising Sir John Coles, Paul Collins and in the US under the Sarbanes-Oxley Dame Stella Rimington were members 4 The effectiveness of the internal Act and in the UK under the of the Committee until 12 February 2004. audit function.
The Board has determined that Lord 5 The effectiveness of the 11 The Annual Report disclosure items Sharman and Elwyn Eilledge are the external audit process.
relevant to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee financial experts for BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 12 The Audit Committee Charter.
process is designed to provide assurance management and health, safety, security to the Board that policies, procedures and environmental management 13 Critical accounting policies and and processes are being effectively processes.
The process is reviewed significant judgements.
A register of all the issues annually by the Audit Committee on In addition, the Audit Committee raised is collated and analysed to behalf of the Board.
completed a review of the governance, determine whether they represent Specifically, the Audit Committee: control and assurance systems in the BG a material weakness or significant India asset.
The Whistleblowing Policy deficiency in the effectiveness of the regularly reviews the external and was also reviewed and revised to reflect Group Internal Control Framework.
internal audit work plans: the requirements of the US SarbanesHaving reviewed its effectiveness this requests, receives and reviews reports Oxley Act regarding complaints about year, the Board has determined that it from management on actions taken financial matters.
Such complaints, is not aware of any material weakness to address risk areas identified by where appropriate, are referred to the or significant deficiency in the Groups management and or the internal Audit Committee Chairman.
system of internal controls during the audit process: and year ended 31 December 2003.
INTERNAL CONTROL receives and reviews an annual report In addition, the Chief Executive and The Company, as required by the Listing on the changes in the nature and Chief Financial Officer performed an Rules, has complied with the Combined potential impact of the significant evaluation of internal controls which Code provisions on internal control by risks to the Group, identified at an included formal and systematic enquiries establishing the procedures necessary annual Group Executive risk workshop, of, and interviews with, senior executives to implement the guidance issued by and the internal controls in place to employed by the Group.
The General the Internal Control working party of manage them.
Counsel, Company Secretary and Head the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Internal Audit advised and assisted BG Group views risk management in England and Wales in September 1999 the Chief Executive and Chief Financial as integral to good business practice.
the Turnbull Committee Report and Officer in the evaluation process.
The process is designed to support by reporting in accordance with that managements decision-making and guidance.
The Group has an established US SEC Statement on Controls to improve the reliability of business risk-based internal control framework and Procedures performance.
32 with the Statement of Business The Chief Executive and the Chief Principles as the pivotal element, Financial Officer, after evaluating the underpinned by the eight Group Policies effectiveness of the Groups disclosure and more detailed risk-based controls, controls and procedures as defined in procedures and processes.
This is US Exchange Act Rule 13a 15 e as of illustrated on page 25. the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, have concluded that, The Board has carried out a specific as of such date, the Groups disclosure assessment of the Groups system of controls and procedures were effective.
internal control including financial, operational and compliance controls and There were no changes in the Groups risk management systems for the internal controls over financial reporting purpose of this report.
that occurred during the year ended 31 December 2003 that have materially The system of internal control is designed affected, or are reasonably likely to to manage, rather than eliminate, the affect, the Groups internal control over risk of failure to achieve business financial reporting.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can provide only RISK MANAGEMENT reasonable and not absolute assurance There is a continuous process for against material misstatement or loss.
identifying, evaluating and managing In addition, the Board, through the the significant risks faced by the Group, Chief Executive, asks each member of the which are outlined in the Risk Factors Group Executive Committee to complete section on page 33.
This process was in an annual Letter of Assurance place throughout 2003.
The process is confirming compliance with the internal embedded in the business, with risk control framework.
The members of the assessment and evaluation incorporated Group Executive Committee cascade into the key business processes including similar letters to the senior managers in strategy and business planning, their area of responsibility.
This cascade investment appraisal, performance
