Statement of Corporate Governance Principles of Corporate Governance Evaluation of Board Performance The Board recognises the value of good corporate governance not The Board is appraised annually, as are individual directors and only in the areas of accountability and risk management but also as a Board committees.
positive contribution to business prosperity.
It believes that corporate The Chairman is responsible for appraising the performance of the Group governance involves applying the principles, as set out in the Principles Chief Executive against objective criteria agreed by the Remuneration of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code Committee prior to the commencement of any appraisal period.
The issued by the London Stock Exchange in June 1998, in a sensible and Chairman presents the results of his appraisal to the Remuneration pragmatic fashion, having regard to the individual circumstances of Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
The key objective is to enhance and protect The Group Chief Executive is responsible for appraising the performance shareholder value.
of the other executive directors individually, against objective criteria The Board notes the publication in July 2003 of the revised Combined agreed by the Remuneration Committee prior to the commencement Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council, which applies to listed of any appraisal period.
The Group Chief Executive presents the results companies for periods commencing on or after 1 November 2003 of these appraisals to the Remuneration Committee for consideration the revised Combined Code.
The Group will report formally on its and determination of remuneration.
compliance with the revised Combined Code, as required under the All Board directors are required to complete a detailed questionnaire Listing Rules, next year.
However, the Board has reviewed the main and on the performance of the Board, to seek to identify any areas in which supporting principles and provisions set out in the revised Combined improvements might be made to the information provided to the Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Board or the conduct of its proceedings generally.
The evaluation Council in July 2003, and is satisfied that it complies with those takes the form of a series of specic questions within general subject provisions in all material respects.
headings, and directors are required to score performance according to a scale.
The Board subsequently discusses the collated results of Board Structure the evaluation and any agreed improvements are implemented.
The The Board comprises nine non-executive directors and four executive members of Board Committees undertake a similar annual evaluation directors who have the collective responsibility for ensuring that the and report their findings and recommendations to the Board.
affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries are managed competently and with integrity.
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year under the guidance of the senior independent non-executive director, to review The Chairman is Mr J R Windeler.
The senior independent nonthe performance of the Chairman.
executive director is the Deputy Chairman, Mr M P S Barton, and Mr R A Pym is Group Chief Executive.
The names of the directors in Operation of the Board ofce at the date of this report and their biographical details are set The Board approves and closely monitors the Alliance & Leicester Groups out on pages 22 and 23. strategic direction and business strategy.
There is a formal schedule The revised Combined Code determines that the Chairman ceases of matters specically reserved to the Board, including the setting of to be independent when appointed.
corporate objectives, major capital expenditure, annual budgets and The Board considers that all the non-executive directors are significant changes to the Groups structure and product range.
independent in character and judgement, and within the denition The Group Chief Executive is empowered to approve any matter not of this term in the revised Combined Code.
This includes the Boards reserved to the Group Board within agreed financial limits, and in turn longest serving director, Miss F A Cairncross, who joined the Board of delegates the operational and financial management of the business Alliance & Leicester Building Society in January 1992, although she has to the executive directors to achieve agreed budgets and objectives.
served on the Board of Alliance & Leicester plc for less than 9 years, The Board receives regular management performance and internal being appointed in October 1996. control reports and operates a system of Board reviews of individual The Chairman regularly holds meetings with the non-executive business units and their performance against key targets and objectives.
directors without the executives present.
Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and the As well as providing challenge to the executive directors, the nonattendance at those meetings is set out on page 38. executive directors play a full part as members of the Board team.
Procedures are in place which allow directors to take independent They bring a diversity of business perspective and objectivity which professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have complements the hands on expertise of their executive director access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
All members of the Board share responsibility for Board decisions.
The Board has established several Committees with specified terms of reference to assist the Board in the exercise of its responsibilities.
The The composition of the Board is kept under review, with the aim of terms of reference for each of the Committees are available from the ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority Group website at www.
between executive and non-executive directors, and that the directors collectively possess the necessary skills and experience for properly Nomination Committee directing the Groups business activities.
The Nomination Committee comprising non-executive directors has Newly appointed directors submit themselves for election by the task of: shareholders at the first General Meeting after their appointment and evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required at least every three years thereafter.
They receive induction training on the Board and the structure, size and composition of the Board upon appointment and are required to make regular visits to the and its Committees: Companys operational locations.
The appointment of non-executive recommending new appointments to the Board and reviewing directors is documented in a letter, the standard terms of which are available from the Group website at www.
reappointments when they become due: annually reviewing the performance of and the time required from the non-executive directors and Board Committees: overseeing succession planning for the Board.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 35 Statement of Corporate Governance continued During the year the Committee has formalised its succession and The Committee membership as at 19 February 2004 is and during the contingency plan for all Board and Committee appointments.
Two period under review was: additional independent non-executive directors, Mr P J Stone and Mr M P S Barton Chairman Mrs J V Barker, have been appointed to the Board with the specic Mrs J V Barker from 29 January 2004 objective of increasing the breadth of recent financial and risk The Hon D Brougham management experience on the Group Audit & Risk Committee, Mr R M McTighe and the Group Credit Policy Committee.
Mr E J Watts Detailed candidate proles were prepared for both appointments Mr P J Stone from 30 October 2003 and an external search consultancy retained to identify prospective The Board considers that these non-executive members of the committee have recent candidates from which a short-list was presented to the Committee.
The Committee membership as at 19 February 2004 is and during Mrs N Veall, Head of Group Internal Audit, is the Secretary of the the period under review was: Group Audit & Risk Committee.
Mr J R Windeler Chairman The Group Chief Executive, and other Executive Directors, Director of Mr M J Allen Group Risk, Director of Accounting & Taxation, Head of Group Internal Mr M P S Barton Audit, Head of Group Compliance and a representative of the external Miss F A Cairncross auditors normally attend meetings.
Other Group Board members are Mr R M McTighe from 30 October 2003 also invited to all meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee has Mr E J Watts from 30 October 2003 independent access to both internal and external auditors, and to the Groups statutory regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
Mrs D Henderson, Head of Board Ofce, is the secretary of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee is also responsible for appointment and reappointment of the external auditors, the appropriateness of the audit fee and the Remuneration Committee engagement letter, ensuring that it has been updated to reect changes The Remuneration Committee comprising non-executive directors is in circumstances arising since the previous year, and any questions of resignation or dismissal.
responsible, pursuant to a policy framework on executive remuneration agreed by the Board, for determining the pay and benets and The Group has developed and implemented a formal policy for the contractual arrangements for the Chairman, Executive Directors and engagement of its external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The the Company Secretary, and for overseeing the Groups Share Schemes.
policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to The Committee also recommends and monitors the structure and levels be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the service could impair of remuneration for Senior Managers throughout the Group.
the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy incorporates a comprehensive system for reporting The Committee oversees the preparation of the Directors to the Group Audit & Risk Committee the use of delegated authorities to Remuneration report which appears on pages 28 to 34. appoint the external auditors for non-audit services.
The Committee membership as at 19 February 2004 is and during the The Committee recognises the importance of maintaining a sound period under review was: system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments Mr M P S Barton Chairman and the Groups assets.
Further information on the systems of business Mr M J Allen control appears later in this Statement.
The Companys independent The Hon D Brougham external auditors are present at meetings of the Committee and Miss F A Cairncross the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Mr R M McTighe from 30 October 2003 Committee also receives, on behalf of the Board, the Annual Report Mr E J Watts from 30 October 2003 of the Group Money Laundering Reporting officer, and reviews Mr T S Lloyd, Company Secretary, is the Secretary of the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns Remuneration Committee.
about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Group Audit & Risk Committee Other Committees The Group Audit & Risk Committee supports the Boards Corporate Governance responsibilities, including risk management and The Group Credit Policy Committee reviews all aspects of credit, compliance with applicable codes.
liquidity and market risk, and the Group Assets and Liabilities Committee establishes strategies for, and monitors and controls, the The duties of the Committee fall into two main areas: levels of balance sheet risk including liquidity, funding and currency Internal Control: the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the exposures across the Group, and the monitoring of interest rate rexing Groups systems of internal control and risk management and monitors proles.
The Chairmans Committee is empowered to take urgent compliance with regulatory requirements.
To do this, the Committee decisions between Board meetings and comprises the Chairman or a approves the annual Internal Audit and Compliance plans, which are non-executive director, the Deputy Chairman or another non-executive based on thorough risk assessments of the full scope of the Groups director, and the Group Chief Executive or one other executive director.
business activities, and monitors progress against the plans.
Each meeting of the Committee receives reports from the Head of Group Pension Funds Internal Audit and the Head of Group Compliance regarding the state The Groups pension funds are held and controlled by trustees separately of internal control and compliance within the Group.
The salient points from the Group: in particular no scheme assets are invested in or of these reports are presented to the next Board meeting.
loaned to the Company or its subsidiaries.
Independence is reinforced by strong employee trustee representation.
Financial Reporting: the Committees role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Report and internal audit reports.
The Committee focuses on reviewing any changes in accounting policy, major areas of judgement and estimates, and compliance with accounting principles and regulatory requirements.
36 Alliance & Leicester The Board receives monthly reports from the key executives identifying Relations with Shareholders performance against budget, major business issues and the impact of The Company values dialogue with its institutional shareholders the external business and economic environment on their areas of through meetings, presentations and results briengs.
The Board also receives minutes and reports from the The Board receives monthly updates on changes in the Groups Chairmen of the Group Audit & Risk Committee, and the Group Credit institutional share register, together with details and feedback from Policy Committee.
These identify any significant issues relating to the any meetings held with shareholders.
To ensure the Board are kept up adequacy of the Groups risk management policies and procedures to date on current external views they also regularly receive copies of across the full range of risk to which the Group is exposed.
analyst research notes on the Company.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups Internal Control Policy During the year the Company has undertaken surveys of both analyst and to the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
Each regular meeting of this investor views on the Company.
The Board is provided with a summary of Committee receives a report identifying the effectiveness of internal the findings of these surveys, and has access to the full reports.
control together with specic reports on major issues.
An annual The Groups major institutional shareholders regularly meet with assessment of the effectiveness of internal control within the Group the Companys management.
The Chairman and senior non-executive is submitted by the Head of Group Internal Audit to this Committee.
director attend results presentations, together with other non-executive The Board retains control over this area through the presentation of a directors who are able to do so.
The Groups major institutional regular Group Audit & Risk Committee activities report together with shareholders have been contacted in order to give them the opportunity the minutes of the Committee meetings.
to meet with the Chairman, senior independent non-executive director, The key features of the system of business control established by the and other non-executive directors.
In addition, all institutional Board are: shareholders have the opportunity to request a meeting with the Chairman and non-executive independent directors via the Groups webA Group Internal Control Policy requiring senior management to site.
The senior independent non-executive director is available to deal identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls with the concerns of shareholders that cannot be resolved through the through key performance indicators and certify to the Board on normal channels of the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive.
a twice yearly basis that they are effective.
The results of this selfcertication are subject to internal audit scrutiny and are reported All shareholders have the opportunity to meet the directors at the via the Group Audit & Risk Committee: Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company facilitates this by holding the AGM in the evening at the Companys Leicestershire A well dened management structure with clear accountabilities head ofce, which is at the heart of its individual shareholder base.
and delegations: A system of executive management committees, including the Compliance Statement Executive Directors Committee and the Credit, Controls & Security The Company has complied with the Principles of Good Governance Executive Committee.
These committees enhance and support the and Code of Best Practice as contained in the Combined Code, issued oversight role of the Board: by the London Stock Exchange in June 1998, throughout the year ended 31 December 2003, save that the Chairman had been a A planning and budget process that delivers detailed annual financial member of the Remuneration Committee until his resignation from forecasts and targets for Board approval: that Committee on 25 September 2003.
Management information systems enabling the Board to receive comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and business Internal Control performance including variance against budget: The Group Audit & Risk Committee has regularly reviewed the A Group Risk Management function with overarching responsibility effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the year to for the monitoring and reporting of all major risks to which the 31 December 2003 on behalf of the Board, and has taken account of Group is exposed, supported by specialist risk functions: any material developments that may have taken place since the year end.
An Internal Audit function to report to the Board on the effectiveness The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls of key internal controls in relation to these major risks: and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The Groups business involves the identication, acceptance and mitigation of risk, and appropriate A Compliance function to manage relationships with the Groups internal control systems have been implemented and embedded.
key regulators and to identify and control major compliance risks: These systems of internal control are designed to manage rather The appointment of a Money Laundering Reporting officer and the than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and establishment and maintenance of anti-money laundering procedures provide reasonable assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards and controls including training programmes for staff: and protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud, but it must be recognised that they cannot provide absolute assurance.
Documented procedures and authority levels to ensure that risks involved in major projects are properly assessed and controlled.
The directors are required by law to establish systems for the control of the conduct of the business in accordance with the Financial Services The activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, and Markets Act 2000, and to conduct the business with prudence and are subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority.
The integrity, ensuring that there are adequate reserves and other capital Group is required on a regular basis to submit detailed prudential and resources and assets in liquid form for the protection of depositors.
statistical returns covering all areas of its business and meets regularly with its supervisors, conducting the relationship in an open and There has been in place for the year under review and up to the date constructive manner.
of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed Going Concern by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable in England and Wales in September 1999. future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
