Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance at a Glance This Statement sets out the key governance principles and practices of the BHP Billiton Group.
Readers are directed to the page Remuneration Report appearing on pages 46 to 62 which details 1.
Shareholders 34 the remuneration policies and practices of the Group.
Market Disclosure Policy 35 Shareholders will be invited to consider and to approve the Remuneration Report at the annual general meetings in 2003.
Board of Directors composition 35 3.1 Membership 35 BHP Billiton operates under a dual listed companies structure 3.2 Independence 36 with primary listings in Australia and the UK.
BHP Billiton Limited 3.3 Skills, knowledge and experience 37 and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the Securities and 3.4Chairman37 Exchange Commission in the US.
Secondary listings are 3.5 Senior Independent Director 37 maintained in a number of other jurisdictions.
3.6 Company Secretary 37 During the past year, debate on appropriate levels of corporate 3.7 Terms of appointment 37 governance has been energetically pursued in Australia, Europe 3.8 Induction and training 37 and the US.
New governance requirements have been introduced 3.9 Remuneration 38 in all those jurisdictions.
In formulating the governance principles 3.10 Share ownership and dealing 38 that guide the operations of BHP Billiton, Directors have taken 3.11 Directors performance appraisal 38 into account the various regulatory requirements, together with 3.12 Directors retirement and re-election 38 3.13 Board succession planning 38 standards of best practice.
Where governance principles vary across these jurisdictions, as they inevitably do, the Directors 4.
Board of Directors role 39 have resolved to adopt those principles that they consider to be 5.
Board of Directors meetings 39 the better of the prevailing standards.
Shareholders 6.1 Risk Management and Audit Committee 39 6.1.
1 Role 39 The BHP Billiton Charter, a copy of which can be found on the 6.1.
2Composition40 BHP Billiton website at www.
com bb aboutUs 6.2 Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee 40 charter.
jsp, states that the Group will be successful in creating value 6.2.
1 Role 40 when shareholders realise a superior return on their investment.
2Composition40 In pursuing this aim the Directors will undertake their duties with 6.3 Nomination Committee 40 honesty, integrity, care and diligence, according to the law and in 6.3.
1 Role 40 a manner that reflects the highest standards of governance.
2Composition41 The shareholders of BHP Billiton play a key role in the governance 6.4 Remuneration Committee 41 of the Group by electing Directors.
1 Role 41 Directors retire each year, by rotation, and all are subject to 6.4.
Management Committees 41 shareholders must receive high-quality, relevant and useful 7.1 The Executive Committee 41 information in a timely manner to play their role effectively.
7.2 The Office of the Chief Executive 41 7.3 The Operating Committee 41 The Group ensures shareholders are kept informed through 7.4 Financial Risk Management Committee 41 a variety of means: 7.5 Investment Risk Committee 42 Shareholders can gain access to information about the Group, 8.
Accountability and audit 42 including the Annual Report and accounts, key policies and the 8.1 Financial reporting 42 terms of reference of its Board Committees, through the Groups 8.2 External audit 42 website at www.
8.3 Internal control 43 From time to time, briefings are conducted to promote a better 8.3.
1 Assessment of business risk 43 understanding of the Group.
Site visits are also arranged to give 8.3.
2 Monitoring process 43 those who advise shareholders a better understanding of the 8.3.
3 Risk Management and Audit Committee 43 Groups operating facilities.
In conducting briefings, BHP Billiton 8.3.
4 Internal audit 43 takes care to ensure that any price-sensitive information is 8.3.
5 Review of effectiveness 44 made available to all shareholders institutional and private 9.
Corporate social responsibility 44 and the market at the same time and in accordance with the 10. Business conduct and the Charter 44 requirements of the stock exchanges on which the Group is 11.
Compliance 44 34 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Information is posted on the website as soon as it has been 2.
Market Disclosure Policy released to relevant stock exchanges.
Any person wishing to BHP Billiton has a Market Disclosure and Communications receive advice by email of Group news releases can subscribe Policy, a copy of which is available on the Groups website at at www.
The purpose The principal direct communication with private investors is of the Policy is to outline BHP Billitons processes for identifying through the provision of the Annual Report and financial information for disclosure.
It aims to ensure that timely and statements, the interim statements and the annual general accurate information is provided equally to all shareholders and meetings.
Notices of the annual general meetings are mailed market participants, to reinforce BHP Billitons commitment to to shareholders at least 21 days in advance of the meetings.
the continuous disclosure obligations imposed by law, and to Shareholders are encouraged to attend and to use these describe the processes implemented to ensure compliance.
meetings to ask questions on any matter.
Shareholders are also A Disclosure Committee has been established with responsibility encouraged to lodge questions or raise issues of concern in for compliance with disclosure obligations.
Details of the advance of the meetings in an effort to make better use of the composition and role of that Committee are set out in the Policy.
Questions can be lodged and issues raised 3.
Board of Directors composition by emailing the Group at: investor.
Shareholders may lodge their votes on items of business at 3.1 Membership general meetings electronically.
The notices convening the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have identical Boards meetings describe how this can be done.
The Boards are hereafter referred to collectively as the Board.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to the annual general meetings, a summary of The names of the Directors in office at the date of this Report, the proceedings of the meetings and the outcome of voting on the year of appointment, their status as non-executive, the items of business, are posted to the website following the independent or executive Directors, and whether they retire at meetings.
the 2003 annual general meetings are set out in the table below.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on pages Shareholders are encouraged to make their views known to the 28 to 30 of this Report.
Group and to directly raise any matters of concern.
The Chairman keeps the Board advised of the views and or concerns that have been raised.
Directors in office at the date of this Report Director Appointed Non-executive Independent Executive Last Retiring Seeking election elected in 2003 or re-election in 2003 Don Argus Chairman 1996 Yes Yes No 2001 No Not applicable David Brink 1997 Yes Yes No 2000 Yes Yes John Buchanan 2003 Yes Yes No Not No Yes submits applicable himself for election by shareholders Michael Chaney 1995 Yes Yes No 2000 Yes Yes David Crawford 1994 Yes Yes No 2001 No Not applicable Charles Goodyear Chief Executive Officer 2001 No No Yes 2002 No Not applicable Cornelius Herkstrter 1998 Yes Yes No 2001 Yes No David Jenkins 2000 Yes Yes No 2002 No Not applicable Lord Renwick 1997 Yes Yes No 2000 Yes Yes Miklos Mike Salamon 2003 No No Yes Not No Yes submits Senior Minerals Executive applicable himself for election by shareholders John Schubert 2000 Yes Yes No 2002 No Not applicable BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 35 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.2 Independence participates in share, option or performance-based plans BHP Billiton has adopted a policy on directors independence.
receives additional remuneration apart from approved The overriding principle contained in that policy is that a Directors fees Details of remuneration paid to non-executive Director must be independent in character and judgement.
Directors are set out on pages 60 to 62 of the Remuneration A copy of the Policy can be found on the website at Report www.
has close family ties with any of the Groups advisors, Directors The purpose of the policy is threefold: or senior employees, or to specify the test that will be used by the Board to assess the holds cross-directorships or has other significant links with independence of each Director fellow Directors through involvement in other companies or to identify the information that will be collected from each bodies.
Director to make that assessment, and The Board does not believe that any Director has served on the to outline the disclosure to shareholders of the assessment, Board for a period which could, or could reasonably be perceived including the disclosure of any relationships and associations to, materially interfere with the Directors ability to act in the best that may be perceived to affect the independence or interests of the Group.
In reaching this conclusion, the Board objectivity of a Director.
specifically noted that in September 2003 Mr David Crawford will have served on the Board for nine years and concluded that, The corporate governance principles in the jurisdictions in which notwithstanding that period of service, he retains independence BHP Billiton operates contain different tests of independence.
The test adopted by BHP Billiton and set out in the Policy is of character and judgement.
whether a Director is independent of management and any The former Directors of BHP Limited Mr Don Argus, Mr Michael business or other relationship with the BHP Billiton Group that Chaney, Mr David Crawford, Dr David Jenkins and Dr John could materially interfere with the exercise of objective, Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the shareholders in 1989 under which they were entitled to receive Directors ability to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton a payment on retirement calculated by reference to years of Group.
The policy outlines criteria used to apply the test.
That plan was modified in 2001 to limit the benefits application of those criteria to the Directors of BHP Billiton is payable and to restrict membership to existing participants.
outlined below and the determination of the Board as to In accordance with that decision, no new members were added.
independence is set out in the table above.
All of the nonIn 2003 the participants resolved to cease their participation as executive Directors are considered independent.
The two from the first of the 2003 annual general meetings 24 October, executive Directors, Mr Charles Goodyear and Mr Miklos Mike thereby closing the plan.
Benefits that have accrued to Salamon are not considered independent.
Neither of the 24 October 2003 will be held by the Company and paid on executive Directors holds directorships in any other company retirement.
The Board approved the application of an earnings listed in the FTSE 100 or ASX 100. rate to those benefits fixed at the five-year Australian No non-executive Director: Government Bond Rate.
has ever been an employee of the Group and no family Mr David Crawford is the only non-executive Director who has, member of a non-executive Director has been an employee of in the past five years, been a principal of a material professional the Group in the last five years advisor to the Group.
is a substantial shareholder in any member of the BHP Billiton Mr Crawford is the former National Chairman of KPMG in Group or an officer of, or otherwise associated with, a Australia.
KPMG was the joint auditor with substantial shareholder a substantial shareholder is a  of Billiton Plc.
KPMG, shareholder who holds an interest in more than five per cent  and Ernst & Young formerly Arthur of the shares entitled to vote Andersen performed the audit of the Group for the 2002 represents shareholder groups or has significant financial or financial year.
In June 2002, the Board resolved to appoint KPMG personal ties to the Group and  as joint auditors of BHP Billiton for has, within the last five years, been a material supplier or the 2003 financial year.
The Board considers Mr Crawfords customer of the Group or an officer or otherwise associated financial acumen to be important to the discharge of the Boards directly or indirectly with a material supplier or customer responsibilities and accordingly that his membership of the Board a material customer is a customer who accounts for more than and Chairmanship of the Risk Management and Audit Committee two per cent of BHP Billitons gross revenue.
The Board does not consider his independence material if BHP Billiton accounts for more than two per cent of to be compromised for the following reasons: the suppliers revenue KPMG did not provide audit services for BHP Limited at any has any material contractual relationship with the Group time while Mr Crawford was both a Director of BHP Limited and or a Group member other than as a Director employed by KPMG 36 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Mr Crawford resigned as a partner and Australian National 3.4 Chairman Chairman of KPMG on 28 June 2001, prior to the The Chairman, Mr Don Argus, was, at the date of his implementation of the merger appointment and continues to be, independent.
He has been Chairman of BHP Limited since 1999 and of the Group since 2001.
Mr Crawford has had no financial arrangement with KPMG, including no pension arrangements, retainers, advisory fees The Chairman leads the Board.
He has responsibility for ensuring or any direct or indirect business arrangements since his the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information to enable resignation, and Directors to analyse and constructively critique the performance of management and the Group as a whole.
The Chairman is Mr Crawford has never been part of the KPMG audit practice responsible for representing the Board to shareholders.
nor in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit Mr Argus is Chairman of Brambles Industries, a dual listed activity associated with Billiton Plc, BHP Limited or BHP company that is listed on the Australian and London Stock Billiton.
Mr Crawford abstained from voting both on the Exchanges.
The Board considers that neither his Chairmanship of recommendation of the Risk Management and Audit Brambles, nor any of his other commitments set out on page 28 Committee and from the approval by the Board in relation to of this Report, interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities the appointment of the auditors.
The Board is satisfied that he makes sufficient Some of the Directors of BHP Billiton hold executive or nontime available to effectively serve BHP Billiton.
executive positions in companies with which BHP Billiton has The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman.
The Board has, commercial arrangements.
Those positions are set out on page however, identified a non-executive Director to act as Chairman 156 of this Report.
The Board has assessed all of those should the need arise at short notice.
That Director is currently associations and concluded that in no case do those positions Dr John Schubert.
interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement or the Directors ability to act in the best 3.5 Senior Independent Director interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
The Board has appointed Dr John Buchanan as the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Dr Buchanan is In all cases the commercial transactions were entered into in available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be the usual course of BHP Billitons business and approval given addressed through the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or in accordance with the Groups requirements for the approval of Chief Financial Officer.
capital expenditure or the entry into contractual arrangements.
In no case was Board approval required and none of the 3.6 Company Secretary transactions were material under the terms of the Policy.
If Board The Company Secretary is Ms Karen Wood.
The appointment approval was ever required for any transaction with a company and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
in which a Director of BHP Billiton had an executive or nonThe Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring executive position, the Director concerned would abstain from that Board procedures are complied with.
She advises the Board voting on the matter.
All Directors have access to her advice The only transactions in 2003 which amounted to related-party and services.
transactions with Director-related entities under Australian and 3.7 Terms of appointment UK generally accepted accounting principles, are the transactions The Board has settled a form of letter of appointment to be between BHP Billiton and Wesfarmers Limited.
The details of provided to candidates for appointment as Directors who are those transactions are set out in note 30 to the financial not executives of the Group.
The standard terms of the letter statements on page 156 of this Report.
are available from the website at www.
3.3 Skills, knowledge and experience The Directors are bound by the BHP Billiton Guide to Business The Board considers that, between them, the non-executive Conduct, a description of which is set out in section 10.
The Directors bring the range of skills, knowledge and experience Guide is published on the website at necessary to govern the Group, including international www.
experience: understanding the economics of the sectors in which the Group operates: knowledge of world capital markets: 3.8 Induction and training and an understanding of the health, safety, environmental and New Directors are provided with an induction program community challenges that the Group faces.
Details of the specifically tailored to the needs of individual appointees.
That experience and expertise of the Directors are set out on pages 28 program includes meetings with major shareholders, one-on-one to 30 of this Report.
meetings with members of management and visits to key assets.
Directors agree to participate in continuous improvement programs from time to time, as considered appropriate.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 37 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.9 Remuneration meeting in June 2003.
The report outlined feedback on the role Details of remuneration paid to the Directors executive and of the Board, the people, procedures, practices and behaviours.
It concluded that the Board did not have any serious issues to non-executive are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages address, but made suggestions about how some procedures 46 to 62 of this Report.
In addition to the assessment of the 3.10 Share ownership and dealing performance of the Board as a whole, the Nomination Committee Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent oversaw a review of the performance of each of the Directors of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares in retiring at the 2003 annual general meetings.
The process is either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc until they achieve discussed at section 3.12 below.
a shareholding equivalent in value to one-years remuneration When the Chairmans performance is due for review, the Board and, thereafter, to maintain at least that level of shareholding as a whole will undertake that review, in the absence of the throughout their tenure.
Chairman, and led by a Director nominated by the Board.
Details of the shares held by Directors are set out on page 65 of 3.12 Directors retirement and re-election this Report.
At least one-third of the members of the Board retire at each BHP Billiton has a policy that covers dealings in securities that annual general meeting.
They are not appointed for a fixed term applies to Directors and senior management.
The policy has but must submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after been designed to ensure that shareholders, customers and the three years.
The period for which Directors have served on the international business community have confidence that BHP Board and the year in which they were last elected are set out in Billiton will comply with the law and best practice in corporate the table in section 3.1.
Re-appointment is not automatic, and governance and will handle confidential information with follows a formal process.
Prior to re-nomination, the Nomination integrity and sensitivity.
Committee conducts an assessment of the performance of Under the policy, Directors are required to obtain the consent of each retiring Director.
Where a Directors performance is not the Chairman before dealing in BHP Billiton shares.
Directors and considered satisfactory, the Board will not endorse that senior management are also prohibited from dealing in shares or re-nomination.
In conducting that assessment, the Nomination other securities of BHP Billiton during designated prohibited periods Committee reviews the skills, knowledge, experience and and at any time at which the individual is in possession of pricediversity represented on the Board and takes the findings of that sensitive information.
The policy adopts the terms of the Model review into account when considering the composition going Code as set out in the Listing Rules published by the UK Listing forward.
The reasons why the Board supports re-election are set Authority.
out in the notices convening the annual general meetings.
Any dealing by a Director in BHP Billiton shares is reported to the Shareholders are required to elect, at the next annual general Board at each meeting.
The Australian and London Stock Exchanges, meeting, any Director appointed to fill a casual vacancy.
At the and all secondary exchanges on which BHP Billiton is listed, are 2003 annual general meetings, shareholders will be asked to notified of any share dealing by a Director within five days.
elect Dr John Buchanan who was appointed on 1 February 2003 The BHP Billiton Securities Dealing Policy can be viewed on the and Mr Miklos Mike Salamon who was appointed on website at www.
3.11 Directors performance appraisal Directors cannot be re-appointed if they have reached the age of The Board believes that progressive organisations appreciate 70 years, unless that appointment is approved by shareholders in the challenge of operating in todays business environment and the form of a special resolution.
A Director so appointed must particularly the requirement for more transparency in determining retire at the next annual general meeting.
Board membership and assessing the performance of Directors.
3.13 Board succession planning The adoption of contemporary performance measures for The Board manages planning for its own succession with the Directors is considered an important part of this process.
assistance of the Nomination Committee.
In so doing, the Board: The Board considers it inappropriate for a Director to offer him considers the skill, knowledge and experience necessary to or herself for re-election unless a performance appraisal has allow it to meet the strategic vision for the Group been undertaken.
assesses the skill, knowledge and experience currently A review of Board performance was conducted during the first represented half of 2003.
The aim was to undertake an objective assessment of the performance of the Board as a whole.
An independent identifies any skill, knowledge and experience not adequately consultant facilitated the review.
In so doing, interviews were represented and agrees the process necessary to ensure a conducted with each Director and members of senior candidate is selected that brings those traits, and management.
A report setting out a summary of the feedback engages in a robust analysis of how Board performance might from interviews, discussion of issues and suggestions for change be enhanced both at an individual level and for the Board as a in future practice was tabled and considered by the Board at its whole.
38 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 The Board engages the services of an independent recruitment lead to more robust evaluation of the issues and, ultimately, organisation to undertake a search for suitable candidates.
detail about the process used to recruit non-executive Directors The Board may seek advice from independent experts whenever is set out in section 6.3 below.
it considers this to be appropriate.
Board of Directors role The Group has in place a policy, which insures Directors against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying The management and control of the business of the Group is out their duties on behalf of the Group.
Committees of the Board The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
This schedule includes the adoption of the strategic The Board has established four permanent committees to assist direction of the Group, the appointment of key senior executives, in the execution of its responsibilities.
These are the Risk approval of accounts, approval of the business plan, budget, and Management and Audit Committee, the Health, Safety and financial policies, review of operating results, risk management Environment HSE Committee, the Nomination Committee and strategy, ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices, the Remuneration Committee.
Ad hoc committees are formed succession planning and significant capital expenditure.
from time to time to deal with specific matters.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the management of Each of the permanent Committees has terms of reference or the Group, through the Chief Executive Officer, to executive Charters under which authority is delegated to them from the management.
There is a clear division between the responsibilities Board.
The terms of reference for each Committee can be viewed of the Board and management.
The roles of Chairman and Chief on the Groups website at www.
com bb aboutUs Executive Officer are not combined.
The Chief Executive Officer is governance.
accountable to the Board for all authority delegated to executive The office of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services management.
The Board has also delegated some of its for each of the Committees.
responsibilities to Committees of the Board.
These delegations Committee meeting agendas, papers and minutes are made are supported by appropriate controls, which are documented in a available to all members of the Board.
Committee Chairmen are framework approved by the Board and available to all employees.
free to use whatever resources they consider necessary to With the consent of the Chairman, individual Directors may seek discharge their responsibilities.
independent professional advice, at the expense of the Group, on any matter connected with the discharge of their responsibilities.
No The number of Committee meetings held during the year, and the Director availed himself of this right during the course of the year.
attendance at those meetings by members is set out on page 65 of this Report.
Board of Directors meetings With the exception of the HSE Committee, all Committee The Board met nine times during the year.
Generally, meetings members are independent non-executive Directors.
Executive run for two days.
Six of those meetings were held in Australia Directors Mr Charles Goodyear and Mr Miklos Mike Salamon, and three in the United Kingdom.
and the Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment, Mr Colin Details of Directors attendance at those meetings are set out on Bloomfield, are the members of the HSE Committee.
External page 65 of this Report.
The Chairman sets the agenda for each experts also sit as members of this Committee.
meeting in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the The role and membership of each Committee is set out below.
Any Director may have any matter added to the agenda.
6.1 Risk Management and Audit Committee 6.1.
1 Role The Board meets regularly in the absence of executive Directors The role of the Risk Management and Audit Committee is to and other executives save for the Company Secretary.
assist the Board in relation to the reporting of financial Members of senior management attend meetings of the Board information.
This involves the selection and proper application by invitation.
of accounting policies, the identification and management of risk Copies of Board papers are circulated in advance of meetings to and the review of the operation of the internal control systems.
Directors in either electronic or hard copy form.
Directors may The Committees responsibilities include: have any matters of concern recorded in the Board minutes.
recommending to the Board the appointment and dismissal of The Board works to a rolling schedule and conducts periodic the external auditors and setting the appropriate fees reviews of the Groups businesses.
evaluating the performance of the external auditors, including Directors are encouraged to participate in debate and to bring their independence and objectivity independent judgement to bear on matters being considered.
The Board recognises that constructive differences of opinion BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 39 Corporate Governance Statement continued ensuring it is clear that the external auditors are responsible 6.2 Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee to the Committee and the Board as representatives of the 6.2.
1 Role shareholders The role of the HSE Committee is to assist the Board to fulfill its responsibilities in relation to health, safety and environmental reviewing and approving the external audit plan, including matters arising out of the activities of the Group as they affect identified risk areas employees, contractors and the communities in which it operates.
ensuring compliance with the Groups policy on non-audit The Committees responsibilities include: services recommending to the Board a health, safety, environment and overseeing the appointment and removal of the Vice President, community policy Risk Assessment and Assurance who is responsible for the Groups risk management, internal audit and insurance monitoring the Groups compliance with the approved HSE activities, and Policy and applicable legislation evaluating the performance of the Vice President, Risk assessing the HSE standards of the Group Assessment and Assurance including his or her independence assessing the operations of the Group and making and objectivity.
recommendations for assessing, avoiding, eliminating, Responsibilities relating to financial reporting are set out in controlling and minimising HSE risks section 8.1, and to risk management and internal control in researching and recommending the adoption of acceptable section 8.3 of this Report.
HSE practices in the industries in which the Group operates, and 6.1.
2 Composition investigating HSE incidents within the Group and considering The Risk Management and Audit Committee is composed entirely HSE issues that may have strategic business and reputational of non-executive Directors, all of whom the Board considers to implications for the Group as well as recommending be independent.
The members of the Committee are Mr David Crawford 6.2.
2 Composition Chairman, Mr Cornelius Herkstrter, Dr David Brink and Dr Dr David Brink, a non-executive Director, chairs the HSE David Jenkins.
Biographical information on each of the members Committee.
Executive Directors Mr Charles Goodyear and of the Committee is set out on pages 28 and 29 of this Report.
Mr Miklos Mike Salamon, and Mr Colin Bloomfield, the Group There are no members of management on the Committee.
The Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment are members of Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice this Committee.
The other members of the Committee are all external experts in the fields of health, safety, environment or President, Risk Assessment and Assurance and other members of community.
They are Professor Jimmy Perkins, Dr David Slater, management attend meetings of the Committee at the invitation Mr Edwin Spence and Mr Ben Alberts who was, until June 2002, of the Chairman.
The Committee meets with the auditors in the an independent non-executive Director of BHP Billiton.
absence of members of management on a regular basis.
6.3 Nomination Committee To assist in discharging its responsibilities, the Group Risk 6.3.
1 Role Management and Audit Committee receives reports from The Nomination Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the separate Risk Management and Audit Committees that have Board is comprised of individuals who are best able to discharge been established for each of the Customer Sector Groups and key the responsibilities of a Director, having regard to the law and the functional areas.
Committees have been established for the highest standards of governance, by: Petroleum, Aluminium, Base Metals, Carbon Steel Materials, Diamonds and Specialty Products, Energy Coal and Stainless Steel assessing the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity required Materials Customer Sector Groups and for the Corporate Centre, on the Board and the extent to which each are represented Marketing, Shared Services Centres and Treasury functions.
establishing processes for the review of the performance of A member of the Group Risk Management and Audit Committee individual Directors and the Board as a whole chairs each of these Committees.
establishing processes for the identification of suitable These Committees perform an important monitoring function in candidates for appointment to the Board, and the overall governance of the Group, but have no statutory overseeing succession planning for the Board.
responsibility in terms of reporting.
This responsibility for The Committee conducts a review of the skills, knowledge, reporting rests with the Group Risk Management and Audit experience and diversity currently represented when considering Committee and the Board.
new appointments to the Board.
The Committee then oversees the preparation of a position specification.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience deemed necessary for 40 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 candidates, that specification contains objective criteria such strategy and rewards: and internal communications.
The as a proven track record of creating value for shareholders: Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, Mr Charles unquestioned integrity and a commitment to the highest standards Goodyear.
The other members of the Committee are Mr Philip of governance: the time available to devote to the job: a clear Aiken, Mr John Fast, Mr Ian Fraser, Mr Robert Kirkby, Mr Marius grasp of strategic thinking: an awareness of market leadership: Kloppers, Mr Chris Lynch, Mr Brad Mills, Mr David Munro, outstanding monitoring skills: a preparedness to question, Mr Mike Oppenheimer, Mr Chris Pointon, Mr Marcus Randolph challenge and critique: and an independent point of view.
The Company Secretary, Ms Karen Wood, That specification is provided to an independent recruitment acts as secretary to the Committee.
Biographical information on organisation, which reports to the Nomination Committee, each member of the Executive Committee is set out on pages 31 for the conduct of a global search.
To date the Group has not to 33 of this Report.
The specific processes 7.2 The Office of the Chief Executive adopted by the Group in relation to performance appraisal and The Office of the Chief Executive is responsible for the significant succession planning are set out in sections 3.11 and 3.13 above.
corporate strategic issues including capital allocation and overall 6.3.
Its members are Mr Charles Goodyear who chairs the Committee, Mr Philip Aiken, Mr John Fast, The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman Mr Marius Kloppers, Mr Chris Lynch, Mr David Munro and and is composed entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
The Company Secretary, Ms Karen Wood, acts In addition to the Chairman, the members of the Committee are as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has two principal Lord Renwick, Dr John Schubert and the Senior Independent functions to make recommendations to the Board in respect Director, Dr John Buchanan.
of certain matters on which the Board must make decisions, and 6.4 Remuneration Committee to exercise the authority delegated to it by the Board under the 6.4.
1 Role terms of the Approvals Framework.
That authority includes the The Remuneration Committee supports and advises the Board approval of capital projects between US$50 and US$100 million.
in fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders by: Minutes of meetings of the Committee are circulated to Board determining executive remuneration policy members.
determining the remuneration of executive Directors 7.3 The Operating Committee reviewing and approving the remuneration of direct reports The Operating Committee is chaired by the Senior Minerals to the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives, and Executive, Mr Mike Salamon.
The other members of the Committee are Mr Philip Aiken, Mr Ian Fraser, Mr Robert Kirkby, reviewing and approving all equity-based plans.
Mr Chris Lynch, Mr Marius Kloppers, Mr Bradford Mills, Mr Mike The Committee oversees the preparation of the Remuneration Oppenheimer, Mr Chris Pointon and Mr Marcus Randolph.
The Report which appears on pages 46 to 62 of this Report.
Vice President, Operating Excellence, Mr Mike Anglin, acts as a 6.4.
2 Composition secretary to the Committee.
The Operating Committee is The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of independent responsible for guiding the Groups strategies in regard to non-executive Directors and is chaired by Dr John Buchanan.
continuous improvement operating excellence and knowledgesharing networks, supply, minerals exploration, technology, The other members of the Committee are Dr David Jenkins, Lord project development services and operations talent Renwick and Dr John Schubert.
The Committee seeks advice and guidance from the Chairman, 7.4 Financial Risk Management Committee the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Vice President, Human Under powers delegated by the Office of the Chief Executive, this Resources, as it considers appropriate.
From time to time, it seeks Committee monitors the financial risk management policies of advice from independent experts.
Non-Committee members the Group, approves financial transactions within the scope of its attend Committee meetings only by invitation.
authority and makes recommendations to the Office of the Chief 7.
Minutes of meetings of the Financial Risk Management Committee are circulated to the members of the Board and the A number of changes to the management committee structure Office of the Chief Executive.
These included a change in the responsibilities of the Executive Committee and the creation of The Chief Financial Officer, Mr Chris Lynch, chairs the Financial Risk Management Committee.
The other members of the the Office of the Chief Executive and the Operating Committee.
Committee are Mr Charles Goodyear, Mr David Munro, Mr Marius 7.1 The Executive Committee Kloppers, Group Treasurer Mr Willie Murray and Vice President The Executive Committee is responsible for the review of Risk Assessment and Assurance Mr Stefano Giorgini.
The Company corporate and Customer Sector Group strategies: approval of Secretary, Ms Karen Wood, acts as secretary to the Committee.
the Customer Sector Group budgets and forecasts: Health, Safety, Environment and Community standards: Group Human Resources BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 41 Corporate Governance Statement continued 7.5 Investment Risk Committee 8.2 External audit Formerly known as the Investment Review Committee, this In June 2002, the Board approved the appointment of KPMG and Committee oversees the management approval processes for  as joint auditors for the 2003 financial major investments.
Those processes are designed to ensure that: year.
The Risk Management and Audit Committee conducted a tender for audit services and made recommendations to the investments are aligned to the Groups agreed strategies and Board on the appointment of auditors.
Those recommendations values were adopted.
risks are identified and evaluated Shareholders will be asked to approve the annual appointment investments are fully optimised to produce the maximum of the auditors at each annual general meeting.
shareholder value within an acceptable risk framework, and The Board has delegated to the Risk Management and Audit appropriate risk management strategies are pursued.
Committee responsibility for making recommendations on the The Investment Risk Committee operates under powers delegated appointment, evaluation and dismissal of external auditors: by the Office of the Chief Executive and makes recommendations setting fees: and ensuring that the auditors report to the to that Committee.
Minutes of meetings of the Investment Risk Committee and the Board as representatives of shareholders.
Committee are circulated to members of the Office of the Chief BHP Billiton is committed to auditor independence.
Management and Audit Committee reviews the independence The Chief Financial Officer, Mr Chris Lynch, chairs the Committee.
and objectivity of the external auditors.
The other members of the Committee are Mr John Fast, Those reviews include: Mr Marius Kloppers, Mr David Munro and Mr Graeme Devlin, seeking confirmation that the auditors are, in their Vice President, Business Evaluation and Economics.
professional judgement, independent of the Group 8.
Accountability and audit obtaining from the external auditors an account of all relationships between the auditors and the Group 8.1 Financial reporting The Dual Listed Companies structure under which BHP Billiton monitoring the number of former employees of the external operates requires the Group to comply with the corporate auditors currently employed in senior positions in the Group regulations of Australia and the United Kingdom.
As registrants and assessing whether those appointments impair, or appear of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US, to impair, the auditors judgement or independence BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc must also comply with considering whether, taken as a whole, the various the regulatory regime of that country in so far as it applies to relationships between the Group and the external auditors foreign companies.
impairs, or appears to impair the auditors judgement or Consistent with the regulatory requirements of all three jurisdictions, independence BHP Billiton prepares combined financial statements according to considering whether the compensation of individuals the Australian generally accepted accounting principles GAAP, employed by the external auditors who are performing the UK GAAP and a reconciliation to US GAAP.
The combined financial audit is tied to the provision of non-audit services and, if so, statements reflect the fact that the Group operates as a single consider whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the economic entity.
external auditors judgement or independence, and The Directors are committed to the preparation of financial reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the statements that present a balanced and clear assessment of the external auditors and assessing whether that importance Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is impairs, or appears to impair, the external auditors judgement provided in the Chairmans Review, the Chief Executive Officers or independence.
Report, the Review of Operations and in the various Customer The Group audit engagement partners will rotate every five years, Sector Group reports contained in this Report.
An explanation of subject to the transitional provisions provided in the UK and US the responsibilities of the Directors in the preparation of the regulations in this area and which are effective 30 June 2004. financial statements is set out on page 71.
The Directors set out on page 67 their view that the business is a going concern.
The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors.
Under that policy the auditors are prohibited The Risk Management and Audit Committee reviews the quarterly, half yearly and annual financial statements and makes from performing services where the auditors: recommendations to the Board focusing on accounting policies, may be required to audit their own work judgemental areas, compliance with accounting standards, stock participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external management audit.
The role of the Committee in the preparation and reporting are remunerated through a success fee structure, or of the financial information of the Group is set out on page 39 of this Report.
act in an advocacy role for BHP Billiton.
42 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 A copy of the Policy can be viewed on the website at 8.3.
Directors monitor risks and controls through the Risk Management and Audit Committee, the Health, Safety and The external auditors are permitted to provide non-audit Environment Committee and Internal Audit.
services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with 8.3.
3 Risk Management and Audit Committee auditor independence.
A list of these types of services is contained The composition, role and function of the Risk Management and in the policy.
All services that fall into this category where fees Audit Committee are set out in section 6.1 of this Report.
are in excess of US$100 000, must be approved by the Committee.
Activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role The terms of reference of the Risk Management and Audit of the external auditor must be submitted to the Committee for Committee a copy of which is available on the website at approval prior to engagement, regardless of the dollar value www.
All assignments are reported to the Committee.
responsibility for the review of internal control systems, including the procedure for identifying business risks and controlling their Details of the amounts paid to the auditors during the year for financial impact on the Group: the budgeting, forecasting and audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial financial reporting systems and controls: the operational statements on page 100 of this Report.
effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to risk and 8.3 Internal control control: whether the Turnbull Guidance has been followed: and The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control approving policies for preventing and detecting fraud.
and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee is assisted in its task by the work of Risk The principal aim of the system of internal control is the Management and Audit Committees established for each of the management of business risks, with a view to enhancing the Customer Sector Groups and key functional areas, details of which value of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
are set out in section 6.1 above.
These Committees receive regular Although no system of internal control can provide absolute reports on the relevant risk profiles and the actions taken by assurance that the business risks will be fully mitigated, the management to more effectively manage risk.
internal control systems have been designed to meet the Groups Each half year, the President and Chief Financial Officers of each specific needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
The role of the Customer Sector Group and each of the Corporate, Marketing, Risk Management and Audit Committee in assessing the internal Shared Services and Treasury functions are required to review control measures is set out in sections 6.1.
3. internal controls and to provide formal representations to the 8.3.
1 Assessment of business risk Group Centre and their Risk Management and Audit Committee, The Group operates an Enterprise-Wide Risk Management assuring compliance with Group policies and procedures and System, which was initially implemented at the time of the confirming the adequacy of internal control systems.
These merger and continues to be developed at all operations.
This representations are provided to the Group Risk Management and System forms the cornerstone of the risk management activities Audit Committee.
Its aim is to provide the Risk Management and 8.3.
4 Internal audit Audit Committee with the assurance that the major risks facing BHP Billiton has an internal audit function, which is independent the Group have been identified and assessed, and that there are of the Groups external auditors.
The Group Risk Management controls either in place or planned for these risks.
Risk and Audit Committee reviews the mission and charter of Internal management champions have been appointed and trained.
Audit, ensures that it is appropriately staffed and that its scope of These champions are employees who work at all levels in the work is adequate in the light of the key risks facing the Group and Group.
They provide a focal point for risk management activities the other monitoring functions in place.
The Risk Management and and act as custodians of the local risk management plan.
Audit Committee for each Customer Sector Group and function Validation of risk controls is conducted by a process of control approves an annual internal audit plan for that part of the Group self-assessment.
Independent validation is undertaken by for which it has responsibility.
These plans are reviewed and Internal Audit.
approved by the Group Risk Management and Audit Committee.
During the year, the Office of the Chief Executive and the Executive That Committee also approves the appointment and dismissal of Committee conducted a strategic risk assessment to consider the Vice President, Risk Assessment and Assurance the head of high-level Group business risks.
Strategic risks and opportunities the Internal Audit function and assesses his or her independence arising from changes in the Groups business environment were and objectivity.
The Vice President, Risk Assessment and also regularly reviewed by the Office of the Chief Executive and Assurance has unfettered access to management and the Group the Executive Committee, and discussed by the Board.
Risk Management and Audit Committee.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 43 Corporate Governance Statement continued The role of Internal Audit, as approved by the Group Risk 10. Business conduct and the Charter Management and Audit Committee, is to: The BHP Billiton Guide to Business Conduct reflects the Charter assess the design and operating effectiveness of controls values of integrity, respect, trust and openness.
The Guide governing key operational processes and business risks provides clear directions and advice on conducting business provide the Board with an assessment, independent of internationally: interacting with governments, communities and management, as to the adequacy of the Groups internal business partners: and general workplace behaviour.
It states operating and financial controls, systems and practices BHP Billitons position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, bribery, assist the Board in meeting its corporate governance and insider trading and political contributions.
Managers and regulatory responsibilities, and supervisors are held accountable not only for their own business provide consulting services to management in order to but also that of their staff.
The approach to business conduct enhance the control environment and improve business reflects the Charter, which itself recognises that lasting success performance.
is built on each employee taking responsibility, achieving high Internal Audit has developed a risk-based methodology, which performance, delivering on commitments and earning trust.
The focuses on compliance reviews at the asset and function levels, risk Guide applies to all employees, regardless of their job or location.
audits at the Customer Sector Group level, and ad hoc management Consultants, contractors and business partners are also expected requests.
This methodology is integrated with and takes into to act in accordance with the Guide.
Further details can be found account the risk profiles established by the Enterprise-Wide Risk at www.
Management System, providing an effective control mechanism.
BHP Billiton has established regional helplines as a means by which A comprehensive activity report is presented by Internal Audit employees can seek guidance on how to make decisions about to the Group Risk Management and Audit Committee at each which they feel confident and comfortable.
The helplines also afford scheduled meeting, identifying any significant risk and employees an opportunity to express issues of concern.
Employees compliance issues, as well as management action plans to are encouraged to use the helplines to solve work-related ethical address these and progress made on previously reported issues.
dilemmas as well as to report policy violations.
Reports can be In addition, the Groups internal controls are supported by the made anonymously.
A Fraud Hotline facility is available for reporting activities of the Financial Risk Management Committee and the cases of suspected misappropriations, fraud, bribery or corruption.
Arrangements are in place for investigation of such matters.
Where appropriate, this investigation is conducted independently.
5 Review of effectiveness During the year, the Directors conducted reviews of the The Guide to Business Conduct is available in eight languages.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the Internal performance requirements regarding business conduct financial year and up to the date of this Report, in accordance have been established under the Health, Safety, Environment and with the Turnbull Guidance.
These reviews covered financial, Community Management Standards.
The Companys HSEC audit operations and compliance controls and risk assessment.
program tests the availability of the Guide in the workplace, and the extent to which the business conduct principles have been In addition to its consideration of the key risks facing the Group communicated to employees and contractors.
throughout the year, the Boards review included considering a summary of the assessments of the effectiveness of internal 11.
Political contributions controls over the key risks identified through the work of the The BHP Billiton Group maintains a position of impartiality with Board Committees and Management Committees described above.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds 9.
Corporate social responsibility to any political party, politician, or candidate for public office.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues BHP Billiton is committed to sustainable development.
Health, that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
safety, environment and community responsibilities are integral to the way in which the Group conducts its business.
Compliance Safety, Environment and Community Report is published each BHP Billitons compliance with the governance requirements in year.
The Report identifies BHP Billitons HSEC targets and each of the jurisdictions in which it operates are described in this measures its performance against those targets.
The Report is Annual Report including the Corporate Governance Statement, published at the same time as the Annual Report.
A copy can be the Remuneration Report, the Directors Report and the financial reviewed on the website at www.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require UK-listed companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the BHP Billiton is a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which Indexes DJSI World, the Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability are contained in the Combined Code.
BHP Billiton has complied Indexes DJSI STOXX and the FTSE4Good Global Index for with the Principles and the Code throughout the year.
44 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 In July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council in the UK released a revised Code that will come into effect for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
BHP Billiton has reviewed the provisions of that revised Code and is satisfied that it complies with those provisions in all material respects.
In March 2003 the Australian Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Council published Principles of Good Governance and Best Practice Recommendations.
The Listing Rules of the Australian Stock Exchange require Australian-listed companies to report on the extent to which they comply with the Best Practice recommendations.
These requirements take effect for reporting periods ending on or after 30 June 2004.
BHP Billiton complies with the recommendations in all but one respect.
The only recommendation with which BHP Billiton does not currently comply is that it has not formally conducted performance reviews of Board Committees.
Reviews are conducted for the Board as a whole, individual Directors and key executives.
These review processes will be extended to Board Committees in this next year.
A checklist summarising BHP Billitons compliance with the UK Combined Code including the revised version and the Best Practice recommendations published by the ASX Corporate Governance Council has been posted to the website at www.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants of the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US.
Both companies are classified as foreign private issuers.
Both companies have American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
BHP Billiton has reviewed the governance requirements currently applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US including the rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and is satisfied that it complies with those requirements in all material respects.
There are no significant differences between the governance practices adopted by BHP Billiton and the currently applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange.
While the Board of BHP Billiton is satisfied with its level of compliance with the new governance requirements in each of these jurisdictions, it recognises that practices and procedures can always be improved, and that there is merit in continuously reviewing its own standards against those in a variety of jurisdictions.
The Board has had a program of review underway since the first of these governance reforms was announced.
That program will continue throughout the year ahead.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 45
