directors report how the company works board and committees relations with stockholders board matters and delegation communications with stockholders Strategy is considered and determined by the Board.
In addition, certain other matters are reserved for decision by The Company encourages communication with stockholders the Board on the basis of their importance to the Group.
on matters of mutual concern and interest.
All registered What these reserved matters are is reviewed by the Board stockholders receive the annual report and accounts and from time to time.
Specific authority is given to Board the interim statement each year.
These are also sent to committees to carry out identified tasks, and day-to-day stockholders who hold their stock through nominees and management is delegated to the executive directors.
have requested such information from the Company.
com, which for regulatory reasons is operated by ATS, is updated daily for stock price committees of the board and net asset value information, monthly for investment Details of the audit committee and its responsibilities are position and performance and otherwise contains much given on page 26 in the section on accountability and audit.
information about the Company for reference.
No separate nomination committee has been constituted.
The Annual General Meeting is held in Dundee to which a Given the relatively small size of the Board, the non-executive warm welcome is extended to all owners of Alliance Trust majority of its members and the regularity and frequency of stock, however held.
Throughout the year the management its meetings, the Board as a whole is able to fulfil the meets stockholders, institutional investors and financial formal procedures required before a director is appointed.
advisers in Dundee and elsewhere, and at its investor The current members of the remuneration committee are seminars for private investors which are held in various William Berry, Bill Jack, Lesley Knox and Christopher locations in the UK.
William Berry is the Chairman.
Much communication with stockholders is achieved through ATS, whose products all have as a common feature an executive committee investment in the stock of the Company or the Second The chief executive has, with the Boards approval, Alliance.
appointed an executive committee to which major management issues arising within the Group are referred notification by substantial for consideration.
stockholders The executive committee comprises the executive directors As at 15 March 2003, the Company had been notified of Gavin Suggett, Sheila Ruckley, Alan Young and, since his the following interests: appointment in January 2003, David Deards and Neil Ordinary stock units Anderson, Colin Beveridge and Kevin Dann.
Neil Anderson Alliance Trust Savings is the central services manager responsible for the Limited 7,530,583 14.9% accounting function, IT systems and other central DC Thomson & Co Ltd 3,241,503 6.43% resources.
Colin Beveridge is chief investment officer and The Standard Life Kevin Dann is the managing director of ATS.
Assurance Company 1,739,553 3.45% Legal & General Investment Management Company 1,518,366 3.01% This stock is held by Alliance Trust Savings in PEPs, ISAs and Investment Plans for its customers and as trustee of the Select Pension.
Prior to general meetings of the Company, ATS offers its customers the opportunity to instruct how stock in the Company held in their plans is voted, and only votes on instructions received.
