Corporate Governance Background regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to Manager attend each Board meeting enabling the directors disclose how they have applied the principles and complied to probe further on matters of concern or seek clarification with the provisions of the Combined Code the Code.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a procedure Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the take independent professional advice at the expense of the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
The directors have access to the advice and on Corporate Governance was issued by the Financial services of the corporate company secretary through its Reporting Council in July 2003.
In addition, the AITC Code of appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for Corporate Governance was issued by the Association of ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Investment Trust Companies in July 2003.
The new applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Combined Code is effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is in the course of The Chairman is an independent non-executive director.
reviewing and applying the additional requirements of both A senior non-executive director has not been identified as the documents but this statement refers principally to the Code in Board considers that all the directors have different qualities force during the year under review.
and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
Application of the Codes Principles When a new director is appointed he or she receives a The Board attaches great importance to the matters set out training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are in the Code and observes its principles.
It should be noted also provided on a regular basis with key information on the that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of are advised to the Board as they arise.
the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has established Audit and Management The Board and Committees Engagement Committees.
The Management Engagement The Board currently consists of seven non-executive directors, Committee which consists of all the independent non-executive the majority of whom are deemed to be independent of directors, with defined terms of reference, is responsible for the Henderson Global Investors Limited the Manager.
Their review of the terms of the management contract with the biographies, on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of investment, Manager.
The Audit Committee consists of three of the commercial and professional experience.
independent non-executive directors, with defined terms of The Board meets at least nine times a year and deals with reference and duties.
This committee is responsible for the the important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the review of the annual accounts and the interim report, terms of setting and monitoring of investment strategy and the review of appointment of the auditors, together with their remuneration investment performance.
The number of formal meetings of as well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors.
It the Board and its committees held during the financial year meets with representatives of the Manager and receives and the attendance of individual directors are shown below: reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting Board Meetings Committee Meetings records and management information maintained on behalf of Management the Company.
The Board has also established a Nomination Board Audit Engagement Charities No.
of meetings in the year 9 2 1 1 Committee, with defined terms of reference and duties, to Andrew Barker 9 1 make recommendations on the appointment of new directors Richard Brewster 8 2 1 1 and meet annually to review the composition of the Board.
James Morley 9 2 1 Michael Moule 9 2 1 Francis Sumner 8 2 1 1 All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, David Thomas 7 subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions Not a member of the committee but in attendance by invitation.
and in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, All the directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Manager also ensures that all The directors will retire every three years to ensure directors receive in a timely manner all relevant management, compliance with the Code.
The names of the directors 24 Corporate Governance continued retiring by rotation at this years AGM are given on areas of risk, including those that are not directly the page 19. responsibility of the Manager, and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
Directors Remuneration The Company does not have an internal audit function: it The Board as a whole considers directors remuneration and delegates to third parties most of its operations and does not therefore has not appointed a separate remuneration employ any staff.
The Board will continue to monitor its committee.
Since all directors are non-executive, the system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it Company is not required to comply with the principles of the operates as intended and the directors will review from time Code in respect of executive directors remuneration.
to time whether a function equivalent to an internal audit Directors fees are detailed in the Directors Remuneration is needed.
Relations with Shareholders Internal Control The Board is keen that the AGM is a participative event The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Accounts is set out on page 21.
The Independent Auditors The AGM is attended by the Chairman of the Board, Report is set out on page 26.
The Board has delegated Management Engagement and Nomination Committees, as contractually to external third parties the management of the well as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Proxy votes are investment portfolio, together with the day to day accounting, relayed to those present.
The Manager makes a presentation company secretarial and administration requirements, as well to shareholders and answers questions on investment as custodial services which include the safeguarding of the performance.
The Company has adopted a nominee share assets and registration services.
Each contract was entered code which is set out on page 43. into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered.
The Notice of Meeting on page 41 sets out the business of the AGM and the special resolutions are explained more fully in The Board receives and considers regular reports from the the Report of the Directors on page 20.
Separate resolutions Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not Socially Responsible Investment absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal Good corporate governance extends to a companys policies controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness on the environment, employment, human rights and of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers community relationships.
Corporations are playing an compliance and risk department on a continuing basis.
increasingly important role in global economic activity and the The Board has established a process for identifying, adoption of good corporate governance enhances a evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of Company.
This process is subject to regular review by the government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for damage to its business or reputation.
Directors on the Combined Code published in September This companys policy is to examine and monitor the policies 1999 the Turnbull guidance.
The Board is responsible and actions of the companies in which it invests.
Its overriding overall for the Companys system of internal control and for objective remains the maximisation of shareholders total reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is return.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only Exercise of Voting Powers provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Company has approved a corporate governance voting material misstatement or loss.
policy which accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an annual review of the Companys system of internal control Statement of Compliance and the business risks have been analysed and recorded in a The directors consider that the Company has complied with risk map.
The Board receives each quarter from the Manager all the material provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the throughout the accounting period to 31 October 2003.
