27 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Corporate governance For new Directors an appropriate training Bradford & Bingley is committed to high standards programme is established to ensure that they are fully conversant with their of corporate governance in its business.
responsibilities as a Director and with the business of the Group.
Throughout their The Directors confirm that for the year ended The Board consists of a Non-executive period in office all Directors are updated on 31 December 2003 the Company complied Chairman, five independent Non-executive Group business, the competitive and with the provisions of the Combined Code Directors and five Executive Directors.
The regulatory environment in which it operates the Code as issued by the UK Listing five Non-executive Directors bring wide and other changes as they occur.
The Code contains experience from varied backgrounds to the both general principles of good governance workings of the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and and detailed requirements.
This Corporate services of the Company Secretary, who is Governance Report coupled with the The recognised Senior Independent Director responsible for ensuring that Board Directors Remuneration Report, explains how is George Cox, who took over this role on procedures and applicable rules and the Company has applied the governance the retirement from the Board of Trevor regulations are observed.
The Directors are principles set out in the Code.
Lewis on 31 December 2003. able to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The new Combined Code, arising out of the The purpose of the Board is to govern the Higgs review of the role and effectiveness of Groups strategic direction, supervise its Principal Board committees Non-executive Directors and a review of Audit operational management and define and The Directors manage the Group through Committees led by Sir Robert Smith, came into monitor acceptable risk parameters for the Board meetings and a number of committees, effect during 2003 for reporting periods Group.
The Board has adopted a structure of each of which has detailed terms of reference.
beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The mandates, granted to individuals and The three principal Board committees Directors will be reporting on compliance with committees throughout the Group, whilst are the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration the new Code in the Annual Report & retaining specified matters for its exclusive and Nominations Committees.
The Audit, Risk & Accounts for 2004.
However, as evidenced by decision.
The specified matters include the Compliance and the Remuneration Committees the commentary below, the Company is approval of interim and final financial comprise only independent Non-executive already compliant in most areas and, in the few statements, the approval of recommendations Directors.
The terms of reference of these areas where it is not, work is underway to put in connection with the payment of dividends, committees are available on request to the appropriate structures in place.
approval of corporate governance Registered Office and by visiting the Investor arrangements, the approval of the Groups Relations section of www.
co. uk The Board strategic direction and the approval of various The Directors apply principles of good policies to be adopted by the Group.
The The role of the Audit, Risk & Compliance governance by adopting the following mandate structure enables authorised Committee is to monitor the effectiveness of the procedures and policies: individuals to approve levels of expenditure Groups risk management process and its financial and commit to contracts or other agreements and other internal control systems, including The Board meets a minimum of eleven in the normal course of business.
effective internal audit, risk management and times per year.
This includes one meeting compliance functions.
The committee also devoted entirely to strategic matters.
The Board reviews its constitution at reviews the Groups accounting policies, financial appropriate intervals and each Director is statements and external reporting responsibilities.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief subject to re-appointment every three years Its role extends to meeting the external auditors Executive are distinct and the offices are in accordance with the Articles of Association.
and receiving all reports by them addressed to held by different people - Rod Kent and the Group and to undertaking corporate Christopher Rodrigues respectively.
governance and other duties as required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and applicable regulation made under it.
28 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Corporate governance The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee also The Remuneration Committee reviews the chaired by Rod Kent, are Christopher considers issues concerning auditors including remuneration policy for the Group and Rodrigues, Nicholas Cosh and Louise Patten.
any risk of conflict of interest.
The Group contractual arrangements of the Executive recognises the importance of internal and Directors and from 2004 onwards the Shareholder relations external auditor independence and has Chairmans remuneration, and also the The Company is committed to on-going, adopted principles to safeguard this, as follows: operation of share plans and options schemes transparent communication across the established by the Company.
The Directors shareholder base, whether to institutional the Group will continue, where appropriate, to Remuneration Report is included on pages investors, private or employee shareholders.
use the external auditors for non-audit work: 32 to 40.
The members of the committee, The Summary Financial Statement, which details chaired by George Cox, are Ian Cheshire key facts about the Groups performance, is the Group recognises the need for and Louise Patten.
All transparency around the services announcements, presentations and press being provided and for a central The Nominations Committee is responsible releases are available on our website at independent overview: for reviewing the composition of the Board, www.
co. uk The Company engages in recommending new appointments to the two-way communication with institutional there is appropriate approval for non-audit Board and reviewing re-appointments when shareholders, fund managers and analysts work to ensure the auditors independence they become due.
During the year the to discuss publicly available information on is not compromised: and committee met to consider the membership its strategy, performance and policies.
The Board of the Board, decided upon changes to the receives feedback on these meetings from the the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Board and defined the requirements of new Directors attending the meeting, and is also monitors audit and non-audit fees paid.
The Committee used external regularly appraised of comments from recruitment consultants to assist in locating institutional shareholders and analysts.
The members of the committee, chaired by suitable candidates to be considered for Stephen Webster, are Ian Cheshire and appointment to the Board as Non-executive At each AGM there is a review of the Groups Nicholas Cosh.
The members of the committee, performance in the preceding year and the Board welcomes the opportunity to gather the views and take questions from shareholders.
Board Meeting and committee attendance 2003 The table below shows the attendance by Directors at the Board Meetings and at the principal In connection with the AGM, the Company committees of which they were members during the year.
discloses the level of proxy voting including for, Audit, Risk & against and abstentions, separates resolutions Compliance Remuneration Nominations and ensures the attendance of committee Board Committee Committee Committee chairmen.
In addition, the Notice of the AGM is Rod Kent 11 11 4 5 8 8 5 5 sent out to arrive at least 20 business days Christopher Rodrigues 11 11 - - 4 5 before the Meeting to ensure that shareholders Ian Cheshire 3 4 2 2 - - have sufficient time in which to consider the Nicholas Cosh 9 11 - 1 1 3 5 items of business.
George Cox 9 11 - 7 8 - Steven Crawshaw 11 11 - - - Ian Darby 4 4 - - - Robert Dickie 4 4 - - - Louise Patten 1 1 - 1 1 - Rosemary Thorne 11 11 - - - Stephen Webster 6 7 3 3 - - Trevor Lewis 10 11 5 5 7 8 5 5 Mark Smith 9 11 4 5 6 7 4 4 Diana Courtney 3 4 2 2 - - 29 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Internal control process, considers the Group-wide risk profile The Board is responsible for the Groups on a monthly basis and receives monitoring system of internal control and for reviewing its reports to update them on progress.
The system of internal control is information on risk management and control is designed to ensure effective and efficient set out on pages 20 to 21. operations and compliance with relevant laws and regulations.
Such a system can only The Group is committed to developing and provide reasonable and not absolute assurance maintaining an appropriate risk management against material misstatement or loss, as it is culture in all areas.
This is achieved through an designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the organisational structure with clear reporting risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
lines and governed by appropriate business monitoring mechanisms, codes of conduct and Throughout the year ended 31 December policy statements.
2003 the Group has operated a system of internal control, which includes an ongoing risk The Board reviews the effectiveness of the management process for identifying, evaluating system of internal control.
The system has been and managing the significant risks faced by the in place throughout 2003 and up to the date of Group.
During the year the Board has approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
It continued to review and, where necessary, accords with the Turnbull Committee guidance.
update the risk management process and the In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of policies and procedures by which these internal control the Board takes into account significant risks are managed.
The Board has the work of the Audit, Risk & Compliance also performed its annual assessment of the Committee, which receives reports from the effectiveness of internal controls.
Group Risk Committee on the Groups significant risks and how these are being Changes in financial regulation continue within managed with any significant risk issues referred the industry, and the Groups risk management to the Board for consideration.
It also considers processes are designed to operate to ensure reports from internal audit, external audit, that the Group responds appropriately both to compliance and management on the system of actual and proposed regulatory changes.
internal control, adherence to regulatory requirements, any material control weaknesses, The Groups management operate a risk and actions taken to address problem areas management process, producing a Group-wide identified.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & risk profile that identifies the Groups significant Compliance Committee reports on the risks, the probability of those risks occurring and outcome of each meeting to the Board, where their impact should they occur, and has the appropriate, and the Board also receives prime responsibility for the design and minutes of these Committee meetings.
operation of suitable controls and mitigating actions.
The risk management process is Going concern complemented by a formalised reporting and The Directors confirm they are satisfied that escalation process for control issues.
Internal the Company has sufficient resources audit has a key role in maintaining the control to continue in operation for the foreseeable environment by providing independent future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups the going concern basis in preparing the internal control systems.
The Group Risk Financial Statements.
Committee oversees the risk management
