Corporate Governance Background When a director is appointed he or she is offered a training The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
Changes to disclose how they have applied the principles and affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the board complied with the provisions of the Combined Code as they arise.
The board has established an audit committee, consisting of Application of the Principles of the Code all the directors, with defined terms of reference and duties.
The board attaches importance to the matters set out in This committee is responsible for reviewing the annual the Code and observes its principles.
However, as an accounts, the nature and scope of the external audit and the investment trust, most of the Companys day to day findings therefrom, the interim report and the terms of responsibilities are delegated to third parties and all the appointment of the auditors, including their remuneration and directors are non-executive.
Therefore not all of the the provision of any non-audit services by them.
It also meets provisions of the Code are applicable to the Company.
with representatives of the Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting The Board and its Committees records and the management information maintained on The board currently consists of five non-executive behalf of the Company.
directors, all of whom are wholly independent of the Companys Investment Manager.
Their biographical details, It remains the role of the board to keep under review the set out on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of investment, terms of the management agreement between the commercial and professional experience.
Company and the Investment Manager.
All the directors are appointed for an initial term of three The board meets at least nine times a year and deals with the years, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and, important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, setting and monitoring of investment strategy and the review stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting of investment performance.
The Investment Manager takes following their appointment.
The board has agreed that all decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual directors should be subject to re-election by the investments.
The Investment Manager also ensures that all shareholders at intervals of not more than three years.
The directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, names of the directors standing for re-election at this regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the years Annual General Meeting are given on page 15.
Investment Manager attend each board meeting.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full board have been Directors Remuneration defined and a procedure adopted for individual directors, in Please see the Directors Remuneration Report on page the furtherance of their duties, to take independent 17.
As the Company is an investment trust and all its professional advice at the expense of the Company, within directors are non-executive, the Company is not required certain parameters.
The directors have access to the advice to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of and services of the corporate company secretary, through its executive directors remuneration.
The directors fees are appointed representative, who is responsible to the board detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Internal Controls The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive director.
The board has established an ongoing process for A senior non-executive has not been identified as the identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks board considers that all the directors have different faced by the Company.
This process is subject to regular qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead review by the board and accords with the Internal Control where issues arise.
Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code published in The board has established a nominations committee September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
The process has comprising all the directors to consider the appointment of been in place since 2 March 2000.
The board is responsible new directors.
Each director is invited to submit nominations for the Companys system of internal control and for and these are considered in accordance with the boards reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is agreed procedures.
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only 18 Corporate Governance continued provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Investment Manager has established an internal control material misstatement or loss.
framework to provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of The board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is a full review of the Companys business risks and these assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk are analysed and recorded in a risk map.
The board department on an ongoing basis.
receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the Relations with Shareholders areas of risk, including those that are not directly the The board considers that shareholders should be responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual General reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Annual General Meeting is chaired by the Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of Chairman of the board who is also the Chairman of the audit internal control and risk management into the operations committee.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting and the Portfolio Manager, as the representative of the Investment The Company does not have an internal audit function: it Manager, makes a presentation.
The Company has adopted a delegates to third parties most of its operations and does nominee code which is set out on page 38. not employ any staff.
The board will continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to provide assurance The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 36 and that it operates as intended and the directors will review 37 sets out the business of the meeting and the special from time to time whether a function equivalent to an resolutions are explained more fully in the report of the internal audit is needed.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Accountability and Audit The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of Exercise of Voting Powers the accounts is set out on page 20.
The Company has approved a corporate governance voting policy with the intention of voting in accordance with best The report of the auditors is set out on page 21. practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial The board has delegated contractually to external agencies, returns.
including the Investment Manager, the management of the Statement of Compliance investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the The directors consider that during the year the Company safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, has complied with all the material relevant provisions set company secretarial and administration requirements and the out in the Code.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the board of the quality It did not, however, comply with the following provisions as and cost of the services offered, including the financial controls explained: systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of a senior non-executive director has not been identified: the Company.
The board receives and considers regular and reports from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the board as required.
In addition, a remuneration committee has not been established.
the Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by the Investment Manager: these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Chairman reports on them to the board.
