Corporate governance The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
The board At 30 September 2003 the board comprised the chairman, five executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Biographies of each of the directors can be found on pages 8 and 9.
BOC has operated with a board comprised of 12 members for some time and considers this to be an effective size and balance for the company.
The executive directors are the chief executive, Group finance director and the three chief executives of the lines of business.
The non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience and expertise to the board and all are considered by the board to be independent.
Sir Christopher ODonnell is the senior independent director, having been appointed to this role in March 2003 following the retirement of Gran Lundberg.
The board composition allows for changes to be made with minimum disruption.
The board reviews annually the senior managers and their succession and development plans.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate.
The chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly the non-executive directors, are able to make an effective contribution.
He monitors, with assistance from the company secretary, the information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
The chief executive maintains day-to-day management responsibility for the companys operations, implementing Group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
This division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive has been agreed with the board as a whole.
During the year the chairmans other commitments have changed.
Whilst remaining a non-executive director of Anglo American plc he has stepped down from the chairmanship of its audit committee and has assumed the role of senior independent director.
The board has reviewed the chairmans current obligations and is satisfied that he has sufficient time available to meet all his commitments.
The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
In particular the boards main focus is on strategic and policy issues and reviewing performance.
These matters are reviewed annually at a combined board and strategy meeting, lasting over a period of two days, with updates provided to the board on a regular basis.
The board delegates certain functions to committees.
There are six board committees, details of which are given below.
The board, however, takes direct responsibility for the review and monitoring of key company policies in such areas as risk management, treasury matters and corporate social responsibility including safety, environment and the Code of Conduct.
The board currently approves all Group commitments in excess of 25 million.
Decisions relating to commitments below this level are delegated by the board to the business unit heads, line of business chief executives, investment committee and the executive management board in accordance with specified financial levels agreed by the board.
The board monitors the financial performance of the company.
It is given presentations on major projects and receives reviews from each of the individual businesses.
The board meets six times a year, with two meetings held at major operating subsidiaries and one of those two meetings at a location outside the UK.
The attendance of directors at the board and principal board committee meetings during the year are detailed in the chart below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee six meetings four meetings six meetings six meetings R J Margetts 66 A E Isaac 66 F R Arredondo 5454 J M Baddeley 6466 1 J A Bevan 4 2 A R J Bonfield 1111 3 R S Grant 2 4 G U U Lundberg 2123 R Mdori 6 5 R G Mendoza 5444 M F C Miau 654 Sir Christopher ODonnell 5454 Dr K Rajagopal 6 J L Walsh 6 1. appointed on 5 December 2002.
The chairman meets twice a year with the non-executive directors without the executive management present and at each meeting there is a session without the chairman present, chaired by Sir Christopher ODonnell as the senior independent director, during which they review the chairmans performance.
The company maintains directorsand officersliability insurance with a limit of cover of 100 million for each and every claim or series of claims arising from the same set of circumstances.
The board reviews board meeting papers, regular reports on the company and market sector activity together with updates on governance and regulatory matters and litigation affecting the Group.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and there is a well established procedure enabling any director, in the furtherance of his or her duties, to seek independent professional advice at the companys expense.
53 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Directors and officers The directors holding office at the date of this report are named on pages 8 and 9.
John Bevan joined the board as an executive director on 5 December 2002 and Dick Grant resigned as an executive director on 31 December 2002.
Roberto Mendoza was appointed a non-executive director on 9 October 2002 and, following the resignation of Gran Lundberg on 4 March 2003, Andrew Bonfield was appointed a non-executive director on 29 July 2003.
The officers of the company are the executive directors and other members of the executive management board as named on pages 10 and 11.
All held office throughout the year ended 30 September 2003 except Dick Grant who resigned on 31 December 2002 and Kent Masters who became a member of the executive management board on 11 December 2002.
There have been no further changes up to the date of this report.
Non-executive directors The Group has long recognised the vital role that non-executive directors play in ensuring high governance standards.
The BOC board has for many years had a significant presence of high calibre non-executive directors.
The nomination committee identifies and evaluates candidates to fill vacancies and these are nominated for approval by the board as a whole.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term after which, whilst not automatic, their appointment may be extended subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
The non-executive directors have full access to management and both internal and external auditors, and are encouraged to stay fully abreast of the Groups business through site visits and meetings with senior management.
Appropriate training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account their qualifications and experience.
During 2003 a non-executive director attended two relevant external training courses.
For all new non-executive directors a full induction programme is provided including site visits and meetings with each of the line of business chief executives, each member of the executive management board and also the companys key external advisers.
Board committees There are six board committees to which the board delegates specific areas of responsibility as described below.
Audit committee Members:Fabiola Arredondo, Julie Baddeley, Andrew Bonfield, Roberto Mendoza, Matthew Miau and Sir Christopher ODonnell chairman.
The audit committee meets four times a year.
Time is set aside at two of these meetings for the committee to meet with the internal and external auditors without executive management present.
The committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to the committee and the quarterly financial statements prior to their release.
The committee reviews the programme and effectiveness of risk management within the Group as well as ensuring that an appropriate relationship between BOC and the external auditors is maintained.
The audit committee terms of reference are available on the companys website www.
Andrew Bonfield, an independent non-executive director, is considered by the board to be the audit committee financial expert.
He is considered to be independent in accordance with a definition of that term by the New York Stock Exchange.
The qualifications of all members of the committee are given on pages 8 and 9.
A report from the audit committee on its activities during 2003 is given on page 55.
Nomination committee Members:Fabiola Arredondo, Julie Baddeley, Andrew Bonfield, Tony Isaac, Rob Margetts chairman, Roberto Mendoza, Matthew Miau and Sir Christopher ODonnell.
The nomination committee meets periodically as required, and in the year ended 30 September 2003 met six times.
The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the board and its committees and identifies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors.
Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee he is not permitted to chair meetings when the appointment of his successor is being reviewed.
The nomination committee terms of reference are available on the companys website www.
Following developments in corporate governance during the year, the committee reviewed the terms of reference of each of the principal board committees.
It recommended changes which were approved and implemented by the board.
The committee carries out, on an annual basis, a review of the board and executive management board, monitoring the succession plans for the board.
This is complemented by an annual board evaluation which in 2002 was an internal review and in 2003 has been a more comprehensive review conducted by an external facilitator.
The results of the evaluation assist the committee in its consideration of the opportunities for improvement in the performance of directors generally and in the reappointment of non-executive directors upon expiry of their term of office and also on their proposed re-election as directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
The results of the 2003 evaluation were very positive.
In particular, the evaluation confirmed that the board and each of the principal board committees worked effectively.
The contributions by individual directors to board and committee discussions were also considered to be high.
The review did highlight the need for continuing improvement in the overall efficiency of board and committee meetings in order to maintain the focus of discussions on key strategic and policy matters.
In the appointment of new directors the committee reviews the current balance of skills on the board.
It draws up a specification to include any specific knowledge or expertise it considers of future benefit to the board having regard to the business throughout the Group and the overall strategy.
It recruits using external search agents who would put forward a short list of candidates for the committee to review before submitting its recommendation to the board as a whole.
54 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 During the year the committee assessed the time commitment it considers appropriate for each non-executive director to devote to BOC to ensure that they have enough time in addition to their existing commitments.
This agreed time commitment is taken into account when considering new appointees to the board.
Remuneration committee Members:Fabiola Arredondo, Julie Baddeley chairman, Andrew Bonfield, Roberto Mendoza, Matthew Miau and Sir Christopher ODonnell.
The remuneration committee meets six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the policy on executive  and the specific remuneration, benefits and terms of employment of each executive director.
The remuneration committee terms of reference are available on the companys website www.
The committees report on  is set out on pages 60 to 69.
Pensions committee Members:Julie Baddeley chairman, Tony Isaac, Rob Margetts, Ren Mdori, Roberto Mendoza.
The pensions committee meets twice a year and oversees the review of governance and control procedures applying to all employee retirement benefit plans and reviews and makes recommendations on the investment policies and strategies applied to the Groups retirement benefit plans.
Executive management board The members of the executive management board are detailed on pages 10 and 11.
The executive management board is chaired by Tony Isaac.
The executive management board meets regularly having primary authority for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations and policy implementation pursuant to the Groups strategy agreed by the board.
Investment committee Members: John Bevan, Tony Isaac chairman, Ren Mdori, RajRajagopal, Greg Sedgwick, John Walsh and representatives from the finance function.
The investment committee meets regularly and reviews and approves Group commitments up to certain levels set by the board.
Accountability and audit Statements of the respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors for these accounts are set out on pages 70 and 71.
To enhance further the confidence of investors in the independence of the independent auditors and their report, the board of BOC has introduced a policy that defines which other services  LLP may or may not provide to BOC.
The policy requires the provision of these services to be approved in advance by the audit committee of the board.
A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit services is provided in note 2 c to the financial statements.
Audit committee report The audit committee meetings in 2003 reviewed the following issues: i interim financial results.
ii interim report from the internal audit function of progress against the 2003 audit plan.
iii corporate governance issues arising in the US under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and in the UK in the revised Combined Code.
The audit committee reviewed the Groups actions and disclosure items in response to these matters designed to enhance the Groups corporate governance practices.
iv the external 2003 audit plan for the Groups auditors,  LLP PwC.
This review included the audit objectives, auditor independence and objectivity policies managed by PwC, partner rotation, audit scope, team, timetable, deliverables and fee proposal.
v the Groups risk management process, including progress on the management of key risks identified by the Group, and within the Groups lines of business.
vii the annual report disclosure items relevant to the audit committee.
viii full year report on internal audit and effectiveness of internal control.
ix the external auditorsyear end report.
x the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including a review of non-audit fees.
During this period the audit committee met with the Groups external auditors without the presence of management.
Regular attendees to audit committee meetings, at the invitation of the chairman of the committee, include: the chairman, chief executive, Group finance director, company secretary or his designate, director of risk management and head of business assurance audit.
During 2003 the audit committee has reviewed the arrangements for staff to report, in confidence, financial reporting, financial control issues or other matters.
The committee has also reviewed the Groups policy on the hiring of former external auditor personnel and has received reports from management on changes in accounting requirements and accounting policies relevant to the Group.
The audit committee has reviewed its terms of reference and amended them in accordance with the policies and procedures introduced by BOC to enhance corporate governance practices.
55 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued The audit committee has reviewed and approved a policy for the provision of non-audit services by the auditor.
This policy defines services which can be provided by the auditor and specifies services which cannot be provided.
The policy requires all non-audit services to be approved in advance by the audit committee, which has delegated this task to the chairman of the audit committee.
The approval process requires full disclosure of the objectives and scope of the services to be performed and fee structure.
The audit committee reviews all approved services at subsequent meetings.
The audit committee has reviewed and approved a policy to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
This policy requires annual review of: i policies and procedures adopted by the auditor.
ii policies implemented by the Group to manage non-audit services, employment of former auditor employees, audit partner rotation and influence on the conduct or objectivity of the audit.
The audit committee concludes that, based on the foregoing, it has discharged its responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference and is satisfied that auditor independence and objectivity have been maintained.
Risk management and internal controls This statement of compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance in respect of risk management and internal controls is in line with the arrangements set out by the UK Listing Authority.
The board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
The schedule of matters reserved to the board ensures that the directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Risk management in BOC The BOC risk management programme assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and manage business risk.
The risk management programme is supported by a dedicated central team of risk specialists.
To ensure all parts of the Group have a firm understanding of risk, the central team has led over 170 risk workshops and reviews around the world in the past three years.
These risk assessments have been broad, covering:risks in strategy:risks to achieving commitments contained in performance contracts:risks in organisational change:risks associated with major projects and risks involving acquisitions.
The risk management process operates throughout BOC and is applied equally to the global lines of business, the business units and corporate functions.
The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised risks with associated action plans to mitigate them.
Line managers are responsible for these action plans and their progress is reported, as required, as part of their performance contract reviews.
A report is made to the board twice a year.
The relevant business executives presented to the board in May and November 2003, covering actions which had been completed and the status of continuing action plans to manage the Groups key risks.
BOC views risk management as integral to good business practice.
The programme is designed to support managements decision making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
BOC will continue to embed the management of risk into all its management processes.
Internal controls in BOC The directors have delegated to executive management the establishment and implementation of a system of internal controls appropriate to the various business environments in which it operates.
The Group operates under a system of controls that has been developed and refined over time to meet its current and future needs and the risks and opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls, which are communicated through various operating and procedural manuals and processes, include but are not limited to: the definition of the organisational structure and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
procedures for the review and authorisation of capital investments through the investment committee including post-acquisition reviews and appraisals.
strategic planning and the related annual planning process including the ongoing review by the board of the Groups strategies.
the establishment of individual business unit annual performance targets and the quarterly business review of actual performance.
the monthly financial reporting and review of financial results and other operating statistics such as the health and safety reports as well as the Groups published quarterly financial statements, which are based on a standardised reporting process.
accounting and financial reporting policies to ensure the consistency, integrity and accuracy of the Groups accounting records.
specific treasury policies and objectives and the ongoing reporting and review of all significant transactions and financing operations.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by an internal audit function that operates on a global basis and reports its results to management and the audit committee on the Groups operations.
The work of the internal auditors is focused on the areas of greatest risk to the Group determined on the basis of a risk management approach to audit.
There have been regular reviews by the audit committee of the board of the effectiveness of the Groups overall internal control processes throughout the year.
The directors therefore believe that the Groups system of risk management and internal controls provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
56 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal controls during the period covered by this report and accounts.
There were no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2003 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Disclosure controls and procedures The chief executive and Group finance director, after evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at the end of the period covered by this annual report and accounts, have concluded that, as at such date, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Going concern The directorsreport on going concern is included in the financial review on page 52.
Communications with shareholders The board considers communications with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely important.
Results are published quarterly, and half year and annual reviews are sent to all shareholders.
A copy of the full report and accounts is available by election or on request.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question directors about the companys activities and prospects.
The chairmen of each of the principal board committees are normally present.
During the year responses are given to letters received from shareholders on a variety of subjects.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers and summaries of these discussions and meetings are provided to the board.
In addition the board receives copies of most analyst and broker reports issued on the company.
These summaries and reports enable the directors to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those with an interest in the company.
com provides financial and other business information about The BOC Group.
It contains an archive of past announcements and annual reports, share price information and a calendar of events as well as BOCs social responsibility policies, including the companys Code of Conduct.
Compliance The board has applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and has complied throughout the year, with the exception that Dick Grant, a director who resigned with effect from 31 December 2002, had a service contract that could be terminated by the company on two yearsnotice.
Directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years in accordance with the companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code.
Although the new Combined Code is only effective for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, BOC has already made changes to its corporate governance procedures such that at this time the company is significantly advanced towards compliance with the new code.
US corporate governance compliance BOC has securities registered in the US and, as a result, is required to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as it applies to foreign issuers.
Whilst the company believes its corporate governance structure to be robust and in line with best practice, changes have been made in order to ensure compliance with the Act as far as it applies to BOC.
The board continues to monitor the new rules being issued pursuant to the Act and will comply with any new legal and regulatory requirements as they are introduced.
As recommended by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC BOC has established a disclosure committee comprising the Group finance director, Group legal director and representatives from the finance, company secretarial, treasury, investor relations, risk management and human resources functions.
The committee meets regularly and is responsible for performing an oversight and advisory role in the disclosure process for the quarterly announcements and the content and form of the annual report and Form 20-F.
The committee makes recommendations to the chief executive, Group finance director and executive management board on the adequacy of processes to permit signing of the certifications required by the Act.
In November 2003, the SEC approved changes to the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE related to the corporate governance practices of listed companies.
Under these rules, listed foreign private issuers, like BOC, must disclose any significant ways in which their corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards.
There are no significant differences in the corporate governance practices followed by BOC, as compared to those followed by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing standards, except that BOC follows the recommendations contained in the Combined Code with respect to the membership of its nomination committee which permits membership of this committee to be composed of a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The NYSE listing standards require that the nomination committee be composed entirely of independent directors.
Corporate social investment BOCs social investment programme has four key objectives: i to continue to focus on projects to improve environmental stewardship: ii to strengthen BOCs educational support in selected areas: iii to continue to devolve the choices of charitable donations to employees through matched giving and volunteering schemes:and iv to broaden the organisations involvement in social programmes around the world.
57 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued These objectives were accompanied by the launch of BOCs global Code of Conduct, which underpins the Groups commitment to high legal and ethical standards in business.
The code is being transmitted to the organisation through an extensive communication, training and change management process.
It details and builds on many of the Groups existing social, environmental, legal and ethical standards as well as improving areas where there were perceived gaps or deficiencies.
The code includes many standards:safe working practices:sound environmental management: fair competition and trade practices:rejection of corrupt practices:respect for the principles of human rights:and community engagement and support.
The code can be accessed on the companys website at www.
com The code is reinforced by a supporting programme, including clear channels for employees to lodge questions, concerns or complaints.
The BOC helpline operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Translators are available to handle concerns in every major business language.
Using the helpline, employees can post, e-mail, fax or telephone concerns to be handled confidentially by an independent helpline administrator or by BOCs global compliance department.
BOC operates a wide-ranging social investment and charitable donations programme, directing resources at areas where the organisation feels it can make a difference or where employees have a direct involvement.
In 2003, BOC made charitable donations totalling 1.12 million including 476,000 to UK-registered charities through direct donations from the Group and matched giving.
As in previous years, no political donations were made in the European Union.
Supporting the environment The Groups environmental flagship remains the UK-based BOC Foundation for the Environment, which was established with an initial injection of 1 million in 1990.
The Foundation has supported over 120 projects.
This year, the Group contributed 180,000 to Foundation projects and saw eight new initiatives come on stream.
Since the Foundations inception BOC has donated 3.7 million.
Combined funding from BOC and its co-sponsoring partners now exceeds 12 million.
This year the Foundation was reorganised to concentrate on projects that improve air and water quality and to increase the proportion of its environmental spending that goes in direct support of selected projects.
BOC made a number of positive contributions to other environmental projects including the BOC New Zealand community environmental grants programme, which provides assistance to schools and local community groups.
Together with the New Zealand Water Environment Research Foundation, BOC manages a scheme providing funding to help communities maintain, protect and improve their water resources.
Charitable programmes At a local level, BOC employees have continued to involve themselves in charitable fundraising and voluntary support.
To this end, BOCs matched giving scheme again proved its worth as a way of aligning corporate funding with the personal generosity of BOC employees.
Matched giving schemes have been operating in the UK, the Americas and the south Pacific for some time.
In the course of 2003, BOC in the UK donated 201,000 included in the UK total above through the Charities Aid Foundation to match employee beneficence.
In addition to the numerous causes supported through matched giving, BOC also supported a number of Group causes, including the Royal British Legion, Thrive, St Johns Ambulance, Macmillan Cancer Relief and ProShare.
BOC ran the second year of the BOC Emerging Artist Award to encourage and support a committed UK-based artist for a year.
The 2003 award was won by Manchester Metropolitan University graduate Tom Hackney who emerged as the overall winner of the 20,000 bursary from 200 applicants.
The Groups logistics business, Gist, has formed a partnership with FareShare, adopting the cause as its headline charity.
FareShare is a national network that redistributes surplus food to homeless and vulnerable people around the UK.
Food that is nearing its expiry date is delivered to the FareShare depots from big retailers.
Volunteers at the depots then sort, grade, refrigerate and deliver the food to day centres.
Money saved on food is then used to provide other support services such as training, medical services and counselling to help people rebuild their lives.
Community involvement Outside the UK, the development of community activities rests in the hands of local BOC businesses, each one being responsible for its own project selection and funding.
This devolved approach has resulted in the funding of a rich variety of programmes that are truly relevant to the communities in which BOC companies operate.
In the US, through a combination of financial support and many hours of volunteer involvement, BOC and its employees continued to assist the United Way charitable appeal, helping to make a difference in many deprived sectors of the community.
BOC in the US also pursued a number of other projects including support for local arts and educational causes.
In the south Pacific, the company matches employees fundraising for three charities a year.
In Australia, employees once again chose the Salvation Armys Red Shield Appeal, Daffodil Day, a fundraising event for cancer research, education and patient support, and Jeans for Genes, an international campaign that raises funds for research into genetic disorders.
In New Zealand, employees selected Daffodil Day, the Westpac Rescue Helicopter and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
BOC in Australia continues a long-established relationship with the Malcolm Sargent Cancer Fund for Children.
BOC employees support this cause with financial contributions and employee support through volunteering and fundraising activities.
In South Africa, BOCs subsidiary Afrox and its staff continued to support the companys community involvement process CIP, which includes the management of 125 projects to improve the lives of disadvantaged young people.
Once more, the highlight of the year was Bumbanani meaning lets build together Day when 13,500 children attended events hosted by BOC staff.
This year, Afroxs CIP was identified by the United Nations as a model community programme and the Springs Parkland clinic received the presidents merit award for outstanding social commitment.
58 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 In addition, Afrox hospitals engage in a wide range of health care and safety initiatives, including sponsorship of the South African Heart Foundation.
A Mended Hearts support group and cardiac rehabilitation team, supporting people in their recuperation and rehabilitation after heart surgery, continued to roll out their programmes on an increasingly national basis.
Some Afrox hospitals have a special outreach service in the form of rape crisis centres.
Medical examinations are conducted in a non-threatening environment with the emphasis placed on maintaining the dignity of the victim.
Preventive medication and antiretroviral drugs are given against sexually transmitted diseases.
BOC and its employees have been active in many other markets.
BOC in China has embarked on a support programme to facilitate screened blood donations to local hospitals.
In Thailand, BOC sponsored a sports programme helping to discourage drug use.
BOC in Pakistan, continued to provide support to community organisations dealing with poverty alleviation, education and health care.
This year, support continued for:the Layton Rehmatulla Benevolent Trust, an organisation dedicated to providing free eye care:the Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre:the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital, the first institution in Pakistan dedicated to cancer treatment:and the Aga Khan Medical Hospital and Foundation.
BOC was one of the founding contributors to the Aga Khan Foundation which runs a world class university hospital affiliated to the Harvard Medical School.
In Chile, BOC supported the Catholic University of Chile with sponsorship of part of the expenses for a new engineering school and the establishment of departments of mining investigations, environmental management and teaching through the Internet.
In Venezuela, BOC donated funds and helium balloons to schools and orphanages and breathing oxygen to local fire stations.
In Curacao, the organisation channels support through the local Rotary Club and contributed to various youth education and care for the elderly projects.
In India, BOC made a number of contributions across a range of poverty alleviation and community welfare initiatives.
Investing in education Several BOC businesses initiated or strengthened their educational contributions.
For example, in southern Africa, BOC companies supported education and training with external and employee bursaries, grants, in-house vocational courses and incidental donations as well as continued support for a welding school and the Afrox College of Nursing.
In Thailand, employees adopted a local primary school and supported it with books and stationery.
It also supported several establishments with equipment and scholarships for employee dependants.
In the UK, BOC launched an education website entitled Inspiring Gases, which is designed to help students and their teachers understand more about gases and their uses.
The website will be developed further as a focal point for other educational activities.
Where appropriate, BOC continues to play an active part in local communities by harnessing its educational capabilities through school tours, lessons in the properties of gases, technical support and academic research.
It also funds programmes and events such as the BOC Gases Challenge, which encourages UK secondary school students to develop chemical engineering ideas based on the uses of helium and carbon dioxide, sponsorship of the UKs Council for Industry and Higher Education, the annual Institute of Chemical Engineersenvironment award, and the SaltersFestivals of Chemistry for the propagation of science amongst the young.
BOC signed a five year deal in 2001 to support the Salters festival season.
Last year, 34 festivals of chemistry involving 500 different schools took place at universities across the UK and Ireland.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on Friday 23 January 2004 commencing at 11.00 am.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which includes explanations of all resolutions, is contained in a separate circular which is being sent to all shareholders more than 20 working days before the meeting.
Resolutions will seek approval to the following: a receipt of the report and accounts: b approval of the  report: c reappointment of Andrew Bonfield, Sir Christopher ODonnell, Julie Baddeley and John Walsh as directors: d reappointment of  LLP as auditors and granting authority to the directors to fix their remuneration.
Following the change in legal status of the auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 13 February 2003 and the directors appointed  LLP to fill the casual vacancy until the next Annual General Meeting.
Special notice of this resolution has been received: e the dividend policy: f political donations and expenditure pursuant to the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000: g renewal of the authority of the directors to allot shares: h renewal of the authority for the directors to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings: i granting of general authority for the company to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of ten per cent of issued share capital.
No purchases were made following last years authority:and j amendments to the Articles of Association.
The report of the directors has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Nick Deeming Secretary 21 November 2003 59 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
