ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 9 Directors Report The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited DIRECTORS financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The present Directors are listed on page 18 and all served throughout the year.
Mr T. Bell left the Group and resigned as a Director on PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 27 March 2003 and Dr Rickinson retired at the Annual General The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying on Meeting on 28 May 2003. business in the elds of materials technology and metal processing.
The activities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings Messrs R. T. Scholes and D. F. Landless are retiring by rotation and, are set out on pages 48 to 50.
The Chief Executives Review in accordance with the articles of association and each being eligible, contains a survey of the Groups activities during the year together offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General with an outline of future developments.
The service agreement for Mr Landless is terminable by one years notice.
Mr Scholes does not have a service contract TRADING RESULTS with the Company.
After net exceptional charges of 34.0m 2002: 18.3m in relation to Group reorganisation, the loss of the Group before taxation was DIRECTORS INTERESTS 11.1m 2002: 11.2m profit.
The loss attributable to shareholders The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company at amounted to 17.4m 2002: 6.3m profit and, after providing for 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2002 are set out below: dividends of 15.6m 2002: 15.6m, both paid and proposed, 33.0m has been set off against reserves 2002: 9.3m.
beneficial 2003 2002 DIVIDENDS The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.85p per share making J.
The final dividend, J. D. Hubbard 900,000 900,000 if approved, will be paid on 5 July 2004 to shareholders on the register D. R. Sleight 70,000 70,000 at the close of business on 26 March 2004.
R. T. Scholes 15,000 15,000 D. F. Landless 5,500 5,500 SHARE CAPITAL J. Vogelsang The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2003 was L. P. Bermejo 25.7m and during the year the issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased by the issue of 159,442 shares of 10p each between 27 August and 28 October 2003 for a total consideration of Each Executive Director was also technically interested as a potential 168,259 pursuant to options granted under the Companys executive beneciary, pursuant to the terms of the Bodycote International share option schemes.
The shareholders have authorised the Company Employee benefit Trust, in 400,000 shares 2002: 400,000 held as to purchase up to 25,647,088 of its own shares, although no purchases trustee by Hill Samuel Offshore Trust Company Limited.
No Director have been made.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the has had any dealings in any shares or options in the Company since forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 May 2004, 31 December 2003.
An analysis of Directors share options is given at which time a further authority will be sought from shareholders.
in the Board Report on Remuneration on page 17.
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the On 9 March 2004 the Group announced its intention to raise Company and its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
approximately 61.9m net through a fully underwritten rights issue.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACQUISITIONS The Groups mission is: During 2003 the Group made three acquisitions at a net cost of 2.2m: To provide world class companies with metallurgical and testing On 1 April 2003 Bodycote Materials Testing Limited acquired the services that make a positive contribution to the success of business and assets of the UKAS accredited analytical laboratory in their businesses.
Windsor, UK from Eurotest Limited.
The facility offers environmental To earn sustainable profits which attract shareholder interest.
To engage, develop and retain competent people, harness their On 30 June 2003 Bodycote Metallurgical Coatings Limited acquired the enthusiasm and inspire them to excel.
intellectual property rights and equipment in respect of CoatAlloy To act as a good corporate citizen.
from Surface Engineered Products of Canada.
The technology and equipment will be located at Knowsley UK and will provide specialist The Groups aim in terms of corporate governance, therefore, must be coating services for the petrochemical industries.
to sustain and support these objectives over the longer term.
On 1 July 2003 Bodycote Materials Testing acquired the laboratory interests of Carillion plc based in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Oman.
The laboratories provide testing services to the construction, oil and gas industries.
Note 23 on page 39 provides the necessary financial disclosures.
Bodycote annual report 2003 9 ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 10 Directors Report Compliance with 2003 FRC Combined Code Compliance with the 1998 Code The Bodycote Board has overseen substantial changes in its board Many of the recommendations of the 1998 Code of Best Practice and committee membership in the last three years.
All these changes prescribed by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority have are appropriate to the Company, in accordance with the principles been a feature at Bodycote for some years.
Taken together with of good corporate governance, and in line with the provisions of the Board Report on Remuneration, this statement explains how The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the 2003 Code, save in set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Hampel three areas where the reasons for the variance are: Committee on Corporate Governance in 1998 the 1998 Code during 2003.
A report on the work of the Remuneration Committee, i Performance evaluation code provision A.
6 pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, The Board believes a rolling programme of assessments is the is given on page 14, and a resolution for approval of that report is most practical and effective method of evaluating Bodycotes set out on page 51.
The Company complied with the 1998 Code control structures.
During 2003 all Executive Directors, the Chairman, throughout the period.
the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and the Audit Leadership Committee all underwent formal self-assessment with the The Board of Directors comprises seven members, of whom three assistance, in the last case, of the auditors.
A self-assessment are independent Non-Executive Directors and three are Executive of the Board started in 2003 and was concluded in early 2004.
Directors led by the Companys part-time Non-Executive Chairman, In 2004 there will be an evaluation of the other Non-Executive Mr J.
A. S. Wallace, who also chairs the Nomination and Remuneration Directors, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committees.
The Chief Executive is Mr J. D. Hubbard and the Senior Committee as well as the annual appraisal of the Executive Independent Non-Executive Director is Mr R. T. Scholes who also Directors.
Bodycote will aim to carry out and report on chairs the Audit Committee.
Brief biographical details of all Directors assessments of all relevant personnel, committees and the are given on page 18.
The Board meets at least nine times a year Board itself within a three-year cycle.
and visits are made to UK and overseas facilities.
Certain dened issues are reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia: ii Investor Relations code provision D. 1.1 Bodycote believes that generally it is the responsibility of the Approval of financial statements & circulars Chief Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals with institutional investors.
The Chairman is available to meet Annual budgets institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, governance Strategy and any concerns that shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual channels of communication have failed would the Directors appointments & service agreements Company expect the Senior Independent or other Non-Executive Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and Directors to become involved.
Regular feedback by the Companys environment, donations advisers on investor meetings and results presentations are Committee terms of reference circulated to all Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are also Board and committee membership encouraged to attend one of the results presentations each year.
On specic issues, as with the introduction in 2003 of a new Investments incentive scheme, the Chairman will seek the views of Bodycotes Equity & bank nancing leading investors.
Internal control & risk management iii Committee membership code provisions B.
2.1 C. 3.1 Corporate governance issues The Audit Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Key external & internal appointments Director, who is nancially qualied.
Two further members were Pensions & employee incentives appointed on 1 January 2003.
The Chairman of the Company, In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date who is also nancially qualied, has remained on the Audit information about the trading performance of each operating location, Committee in order to maintain a balance of experience.
the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against budget The Chairman is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest information on a position that he has held since 1994.
At the time of his safety, health and risk management issues.
Where required, a Director appointment as Chairman of the Company the Board decided that may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the he was the most appropriate Non-Executive Director with the time Company and all Directors have access to the Company Secretary, and experience to ll this important role.
The terms of reference and may also address specic issues to the Senior Independent for this committee precludes, of course, his involvement in setting Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the articles of association all his own fees.
newly appointed Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote will be in compliance with themselves for re-election.
Non-Executive Directors, including the the provisions of the 2003 Code.
Chairman, are appointed for xed terms not exceeding three years, after which the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 13.
The Board also operates three committees.
These are the Nomination 10 Bodycote annual report 2003 Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 11 Directors Report Independence of Non-Executive Directors In reporting financial results to shareholders, the Committee The Board asserts that Messrs R. T. Scholes, J. Vogelsang and L. P. depends on the skill, objectivity and independence of the auditors.
Bermejo are independent for the purposes of the 2003 Code.
In the year ended 31 December 2003 the Committee obtained conrmation of the auditors independence.
The policy of the Commitment Company is not to use the auditor for non-audit services, save for All continuing Directors recorded 100% attendance at the ten Board tax compliance, without the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
meetings held in the year, including visits to overseas facilities in The Committees areas of activity are set out below.
Sweden, Liechtenstein, Switzerland and the UK.
Review financial statements and results announcements Performance Evaluation Assess independence of auditors Performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Chief Executive and the Finance and Approve auditor appointment and fees Corporate Development Directors was carried out internally during Recommend policy on use of auditors for non-audit work 2003.
In February 2004 the Board carried out its own evaluation of Approve scope of internal and external audits the Board as a whole.
The Audit Committee assessed its own Approve accounting policies and resources performance in December 2003 with input from the external auditors, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Approve management representations Review management improvement letters Nomination Committee Mr J.
A. S. Wallace chairs the Nomination Committee which also Review audit process comprises Messrs R. T. Scholes, J. Vogelsang, L. P. Bermejo and J. D. Assess internal and external audit effectiveness Hubbard.
All members attended the only committee meeting in Review Committees own effectiveness 2003, when it determined the policy on external appointments and Recommend new terms of reference the nominations for re-election at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
Review arrangements for reporting and investigation of Proposals for Re-election employee concerns Following the performance evaluation carried out by the Chairman Review internal audit reports & monitored effectiveness of in November 2003 in respect of Mr Scholes service as Senior internal audit Independent Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman, the Board proposes his re-election as Director.
His performance was Review effectiveness of Boards internal controls and risk determined to be effective and he has devoted the necessary time management process.
and commitment achieving 100% Board and Audit Committee meeting Internal Control attendance since appointment in 1998.
Following a performance The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the 1998 Code by establishing appraisal by the Chief Executive, the Board also proposes the re-election a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the of Mr D. F. Landless as a Director.
Groups significant risks, including risks arising out of Bodycotes Audit Committee corporate and social engagement.
The Board continuously and regularly The members of the Audit Committee are Messrs R. T. Scholes reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of 2000 appointed 1998: Chairman from 2002, J.
A. S. Wallace Committee to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with Chairman 1994 to 2001.
J. Vogelsang 2003 and L. P. Bermejo 2003.
Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Their appointments to the Committee were made by the Board at the published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Group's time of their original appointment to the main Board of Bodycote.
Their system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such relevant qualications and experience is given on page 18 and their a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of remuneration on page 16.
The Committee Chairmans responsibilities failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable are reected by additional remuneration for that role as shown on and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee met three times during 2003 and has the The Board's monitoring covers all controls, including financial, assistance of the Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and Company operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is Secretary, who serves as committee secretary.
Save for the absence based principally on reviewing reports from management and from abroad of Mr Bermejo for one meeting, 100% attendance was internal audit to consider whether any significant weaknesses are achieved.
The Committee or its chairman held meetings with both promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
the external and internal auditors without management in attendance.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging these review The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman responsibilities.
During 2003, in compliance with provision D. 2.1, of the Audit Committee.
the Board also performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
Bodycote annual report 2003 11 ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 12 Directors Report The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT arising during the period covered by the report including the work of The Group has a positive approach to safety, health and environmental Internal Audit.
In addition, the Managing Director of each of the Groups matters and is committed to the achievement of the highest practicable Strategic Business Units reported on the existing internal control standards of safety and health at work for all employees and to the procedure and any failings or weaknesses.
They identied and made minimisation of adverse effects on the environment.
Appropriate safety an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses they control, and health policies and procedures are in force at all strategic business in each case with the assistance of input from those reporting directly units.
During 2003 the Group began collating further data in order to them.
These reports were reviewed and commented upon by the better to benchmark performance in subsequent years.
From 1 January Heads of Internal Audit, Safety, Health and Environment and Sales 2004 the Group commenced reporting its performance in terms of and Marketing functions.
Such risks were measured against their lost time, frequency and severity of accidents in a uniform manner.
Following the risk management review by As a result each Strategic Business Unit will be able to benchmark their each participant at Strategic Business Unit level, a Group level health and safety performance and formulate criteria for improvements.
review was prepared for the Directors to assess.
No significant Where appropriate the Group will develop and implement environmental previously unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process.
management systems consistent with international standards.
The Group continues to seek ways to reduce reliance on the use of solvent Prospects cleaners.
In 2001 the Group began an assessment of the steps The Boards view on the Groups position and prospects is given by the required to improve its environmental performance and started seeking Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director in their respective environmental accreditation.
In 2002 all Strategic Business Units were statements on pages 2 to 8 of this report.
Following a review of the mandated to obtain ISO14001 accreditation.
By the end of 2003 one Groups results for 2003 and its budgets for 2004, the Directors consider site in North America, three sites in Sweden, and a further seventeen that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to finance sites in the UK have been accredited by ISO14001.
Three UK sites their activities for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate are in the course of seeking approval during 2004.
43 of the Groups to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
46 materials testing sites, which have a low environmental prole, Investor relations operate to the ISO17025 standard and this incorporates environmental The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet management requirements.
The three remaining sites are set to achieve institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has the ISO17025 standard during 2004. enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the EMPLOYMENT Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual General Meeting now The Group recognises the value that can be added to its future comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have of employees at all levels is key to the Groups continued success.
been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price Through their attendance at, or participation in, production, safety and via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date with website can also enrol free for a service that automatically noties the performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the them of results announcements and recent significant Group events.
Group made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
significant enhancements for the benefit of shareholders will be implemented during 2004.
During 2003 each of the Groups employees received a printed copy of EveryBody, a staff magazine published in nine languages, Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its personalities.
relations consultants provide Directors with opinion surveys from This was succeeded in autumn 2003 by EveryBody Extra which is analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with published in nine languages across the Bodycote extranet.
Approximately the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Non-Executive Directors 1,200 Bodycote managers are connected to the Bodycote extranet, are themselves invited to attend analysts presentation at the time which will improve knowledge of Group activities, and assist greatly of the regular results announcements.
As stated on page 10 the with technology exchange and co-ordination.
This facility became Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available multi-lingual during 2003. to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY particular aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and As part of the general programme of risk management and review career development of all personnel employed by the Group, of internal controls, Bodycote regularly keeps under review the risks including disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled associated with its corporate and social engagement.
Where there the Group, where practicable, will seek to continue the employment is significant benefit in terms of shareholder value and or business risk, and arrange appropriate training.
An equal opportunities policy is in Bodycote has already developed appropriate policies and procedures operation in the Group.
for each Strategic Business Unit.
The accreditable elements are the subject of both internal and external audit procedures.
In areas where Bodycote does not perceive either shareholder value and or business risk, the aim is to develop and implement appropriate policies over time.
The areas of signicance are safety, health and the environment and the Groups employees.
12 Bodycote annual report 2003 ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17 24 3 04 3:10 pm Page 13 Directors Report RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies The Directors are required by company law to prepare financial is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy of deploying the best statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit research programmes with its customers.
Costs of research and or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing the financial development are written off in the year in which they are incurred.
statements the Directors are required to: DONATIONS select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted to make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 12,000 2002: 2,000.
There were no political contributions.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, CREDITORS POLICY subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and financial statements: and conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
It is Group prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also complied with The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days at the year end for the which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial Company were 45 days 2002: 45 days.
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial SHAREHOLDERS statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
As at the date of this report the following interests of 3% or more in the They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably issued share capital of the Company appeared in the register maintained open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and Group under the provisions of Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985: and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Number % of Issued ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of shares share capital The 2004 Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 May 2004 in Sprucegrove Investment accordance with the notice set out on pages 51 and 52.
Management Limited 19,097,014 7.4 By order of the Board Aegon Asset Management UK plc 16,936,946 6.6 LD Pensions 14,029,660 5.5 Franklin Resources Inc. 10,479,820 4.1 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 8,055,396 3.1 Hulley Road HBOS plc 8,014,221 3.1 Hurdseld An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue J. R. Grime Maccleseld at 20 February 2004, numbering 3,317 and 256,630,326 respectively Secretary Cheshire is given on page 53.
9 March 2004 SK10 2SG AUDITORS On 1 August 2003 Deloitte & Touche transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The Companys consent has been given in relation to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act 1989.
In accordance with the provisions of section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for their reappointment, special notice of which has been given to the Company, is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
