Report on corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on pages 40 to 42 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
"This report sets out how the framework is applied and the Companys compliance with the Combined Code issued by the London Stock Exchange in June 1998 ""the 1998 Combined Code""."
"The 1998 Combined Code was supplemented by a publication entitled ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" the Turnbull Guidance, published on 27 September 1999 to enable listed companies to comply with paragraph 12.43A a and b of the Listing Rules."
"Following publication in January 2003 of Derek Higgs ""Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors"" and Sir Robert Smiths ""Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance"", the Financial Reporting Council issued a new Combined Code ""the new Combined Code"" on 23 July 2003."
The new Combined Code applies to financial reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
Whilst the Company is already compliant with a majority of the new Combined Codes supporting principles and provisions, during 2003 the Board carried out a review of the steps required to move towards full compliance for the 2004 financial reporting year and details are given later in this report.
The Company has throughout 2003 applied the provisions of the 1998 Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below, apart from the following item.
It did not, during the year under review, think it necessary to appoint a senior non-executive director as required by provision A.
2.1 of the 1998 Combined Code given that there is a strong and independent non-executive presence on the Board which is accessible to shareholders.
The Board The Board comprises Sir Nigel Mobbs, non-executive Chairman: three executive directors, Mr Malcolm Harris, Chief Executive, Mr David Ritchie, Finance Director and Mr Stephen Brazier, Group Operations Director: and three independent non-executive directors, Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh.
Mrs Lesley MacDonagh was appointed to the Board on 4 July 2003 following a recommendation from the Nomination Committee and an evaluation of the knowledge, skills and experience that the appointment would bring to the Board in light of the balance already available.
A comprehensive, tailored and formal induction to the Company was provided shortly after appointment.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the overall performance of the Group as dictated by the Boards strategy, including maintaining profit growth and developing strategic operating plans that reflect the objectives and priorities established by the Board.
The Board has determined that non-executive directors, Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Mr Mark Nicholls and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh are independent.
This includes an assessment of their independence in character and judgement and confirmation of their being free from any business or other relationship or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
The Board met six times during 2003 and all the directors attended all meetings, with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who attended one of two possible meetings as a result of an unalterable commitment made prior to appointment.
The Board receives timely, clear and comprehensive board papers a week in advance of each meeting and other information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in a way which allows open discussion and enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision and these reserved matters include approval of commercial strategy, long term objectives and annual budgets and the review of performance against these: changes to capital structure: the approval of results and dividend policy: the review of the system of internal control: approval of major capital projects, risk tolerance and borrowing facilities: and the appointment of directors and determining fees payable to non-executive directors.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 47 Report on corporate governance continued A management paper, subject to annual review, includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board to management and includes appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities.
All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
The advice and services of the Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Training is made available to directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills appropriate to both their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During the year under review Mr Mark Nicholls attended a course specific to the activities of the Audit Committee and the directors received regulatory and technical updates on International Accounting Standards and the new Combined Code.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
All executive directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration during which they have notice periods of up to twelve months.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, that they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
The membership of these committees comprises the three independent non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman plus the Chief Executive in the case of the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Mark Nicholls and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees are chaired by Sir Nigel Mobbs.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 53 and 54.
The duties of the Audit Committee are set out in the Report on the activities of the Audit Committee on page 51.
The duties of the Nomination Committee are set out below.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met twice during 2003 and all members, then current, attended both meetings.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
During 2003 the Nomination Committee made recommendations for retirement by rotation and for the reappointment of a new director at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee also recommended the appointment of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh which followed an evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills and experience available on the Board and those the appointment would bring to the Board.
Appropriate succession planning arrangements were kept under review during 2003.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for the following duties: a The regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and the making of recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments and plans for succession that are deemed necessary.
b Preparation of a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment, in the light of an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
c Identification and nomination for the approval of the Board of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
d Ensuring that adequate succession planning processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
e Keeping under review the leadership of the Company with a view to ensuring the continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Page 48 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report on corporate governance continued f Annual assessment of the time needed to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and nonexecutive director and ensuring that the all members of the Board have sufficient time to devote to their duties.
g Ensuring on appointment that a candidate has sufficient time to undertake the role and review his her commitments.
h Ensuring on appointment that non-executive directors receive a formal letter of appointment, detailing the role and time commitment and an induction plan.
i Recommending, where appropriate, directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election.
During late 2003 the terms of reference were reviewed and amended to meet the requirements of the new Combined Code.
They are available on the Groups website www.
and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting which the full Board attends and are encouraged to exercise their right to vote.
The Notice of meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate with questions and have the opportunity to talk informally with the directors following the meeting.
The Board maintains regular contact and dialogue with shareholders through presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of final and interim results.
Details of the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of interim and final results are reported on the Groups website www.
uk and annual, interim and corporate social responsibility reports and other information are also available.
The Chairman is accessible to shareholders and maintains sufficient contact with major shareholders to understand their concerns.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors attended an investor presentation and analysts briefing held in November 2003 and the subsequent site visit.
Major shareholders attending had an opportunity to put their views and hold discussions with them.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision D. 2.1 of the 1998 Combined Code throughout 2003 in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risks register.
The Board regularly reviews this register to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities of the business.
In this way it is able to reconsider its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it, consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficiency of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board, and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 49 Report on corporate governance continued The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions and Retirement Living, with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agenda dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region and Retirement Living reporting through its local board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Progress towards compliance with the new Combined Code As mentioned above, the Board has carried out a review of the steps required to move towards full compliance with the new Combined Code for the 2004 financial reporting year.
Steps implemented to the date of this report include: the appointment of Mr Tim Melville-Ross as Senior Independent Director provision A.
3.3 : the Chairman holding meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present provision A.
1.3 : the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive being established, set out in writing and approved by the Board provision A.
2.1 : the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors being updated and available for inspection provision A.
4.4 : the terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees being reviewed, amended and adopted and placed on the Companys website provisions A.
Currently under consideration is the method of conducting the formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the Boards performance scheduled for the second half of 2004 and that of its committees and individual directors and whether it is appropriate for this objective assessment to be an internal or an external process.
Page 50 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
