Report on the activities of the audit committee During 2003 the Audit Committee comprised Mr Mark Nicholls as Chairman, Sir Nigel Mobbs, Mr Tim MelvilleRoss and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who was appointed on 4 July 2003.
Appointments to the Audit Committee are made on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and all members attended each meeting with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who was unable to attend the final meeting of the year as a result of an unalterable commitment made prior to appointment.
The details of members remuneration are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 53 to 63.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It has access to the internal and external auditors, and their reports, and, if required, to outside legal or other independent professional advice.
The Audit Committee has the duty to: a Keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies and the system of internal control and make recommendations to the Board.
b Review the policies and process for identifying and assessing business risks and risk management procedures.
c Review any significant litigation not in the ordinary course of business.
d Consider and approve the appointment of head of internal audit and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
e Consider and approve the terms of reference of the internal audit function, review the planned programme of audits and ensure that it is adequately resourced.
f Review promptly all reports on the Company from the internal auditors.
g Consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approve the remuneration and terms of engagement and ensure that key partners within the appointed firm are rotated from time to time.
h Meet with the external auditors at least twice each year and consider the nature and scope of the audit and ensure that any auditor management letters and management responses are reviewed.
i Take primary responsibility for and keep under review and monitor the relationship with external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, including the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
j Keep under review the Companys operating, financial and accounting practices and the consistency of accounting policies both on a year to year basis and across the Group.
k Review and challenge where necessary the Companys financial statements, formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, interim and final dividend proposals and presentations to analysts.
l Review the annual financial statements of the pension scheme when not reviewed by the Board as a whole.
During late 2003 the terms of reference were reviewed and amended to meet the requirements of the new Combined Code.
These terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 51 Report on the activities of the audit committee continued During the year under review the Preliminary Results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results, the Interim Report, proposed dividends and presentations to analysts were rigorously reviewed prior to submission to the Board.
Reports prepared by the internal audit function and presented to the Audit Committee by the head of internal audit were analysed and results challenged, including reports on the integrity of the system of internal control and risk management systems.
Submissions presented by the external auditors in relation to the 2002 final audit, the 2003 interim review and the audit planning and strategy for the 2003 final audit were examined and assessed.
The results and effectiveness of the final audit were reviewed.
Audit fee proposals for the final audit and the interim review were reviewed and approved.
The Audit Committee also met privately with the external auditors with no executive management present.
Presentations were provided to the Audit Committee during the year on International Financial Reporting Standards and on the new Combined Code.
The activities, effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resources were monitored using a detailed reporting process and planning and review regime.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also met with the head of internal audit during the year for discussion, the outcome of which was reviewed at a later meeting.
During the year under review the Audit Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This included seeking information about the policies and processes for maintaining independence, monitoring compliance with relevant requirements and ethical guidance and consideration of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
There is a policy in place in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors which requires the Audit Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and pension scheme audit work.
If a request for approval were made, the Audit Committee would have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditors were a suitable supplier of the non-audit service, whether there was likely to be any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit and the related fee level both separately and relative to the audit fee.
M P Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 5 March 2004 Page 52 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
