Corporate governance policy guidelines Introduction The Nomination Committee and the Board give These guidelines have been adopted by the Board.
adequate consideration to planning for succession They provide guidance on how the principles of to Board and senior management positions, good Corporate Governance are applied to ensuring that appropriate management the Company.
The Report on corporate governance development measures are in place.
The Board is set out on pages 47 to 50.
The Board represents currently comprises the Chairman, the Senior the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders Independent Director, two further independent through directing the business of the Group non-executive directors and three executive successfully: setting and achieving short, medium directors.
The Board is responsible 2 Board selection for monitoring and ensuring that senior The Board receives recommendations on the management, organised in an established regional appointment of directors from a Board committee, management structure, operate in accordance with the Nomination Committee, following an the Groups policies and procedures and implement evaluation of the balance of knowledge, skills and and execute the determined business strategies to experience available on the Board.
This Board achieve these objectives.
committee comprises the independent nonThe Company has been compliant with the executive directors, the Chairman and the Chief Combined Code since its issue in June 1998 and Executive and will meet as required to consider details of the steps being taken, many of which are proposed changes to Board membership.
already complete, in moving toward compliance 3 Non-executive director independence with the new Combined Code issue in July 2003, are The non-executive directors are independent in given in the Report on corporate governance.
character and judgement and free from any Guidelines on important corporate business or other relationship which could affect or governance issues appear to affect the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by 1 Board membership and balance the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and The composition of the Board is reviewed on a being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate independence or prevent a non-executive director for successfully directing the business activities of from acting independently.
Consideration is given to the breadth of knowledge, diversity of skills and experience of 4 Chairman and Chief Executive executive and non-executive directors by The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are the Nomination Committee.
separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two roles which has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
It is normal practice for the role of Chairman to be a non-executive position.
Page 40 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk 5 Number of directors 8 Director remuneration An appropriate balance between executive and The Remuneration Committee in accordance with non-executive directors is maintained and the size its terms of reference determines on behalf of the of the Board is set as necessary to achieve this.
Board the broad policy for executive remuneration The number of non-executive directors is decided and the entire remuneration package for each of so as to provide the diversity of knowledge, skills the executive directors and senior management.
and experience necessary for a sound independent The Remuneration Committee comprises the contribution to the Board and the successful independent non-executive directors and the management of the Groups business.
The Remuneration Committee meets as guidance, at least half the Board, excluding the required.
External advice is sought where Chairman should comprise independent nonappropriate to benchmark remuneration levels executive directors.
Non-executive director remuneration, excluding that of the 6 Length of appointment Chairman, is determined by the Board.
Executive directors are employed on service contracts with notice periods which do not exceed 9 Financial information and internal control one year.
The normal retirement age for executive The review of submissions for Board approval in directors is 60.
Non-executive directors service respect of the Groups annual report and accounts, agreements establish the length of their interim report, preliminary statement and other appointments at periods of up to three years and public financial information is the responsibility of their notice periods up to twelve months.
a Board committee, the Audit Committee.
The Audit All directors are subject to retirement by rotation at Committee reviews the Groups system of internal least once in every three years at the Annual control and oversees compliance therewith.
New directors appointed by the The Audit Committee comprises the independent Board must be re-appointed by shareholders at the non-executive directors and the Chairman.
10 Supply of information 7 Director training Senior management are responsible for providing On appointment, new directors are given a the Board with appropriate, complete and timely comprehensive induction to the Groups business information relevant to the Boards discharge of its activities, its policies and procedures and its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance management structure.
As necessary, directors of business activities, including significant receive training to complement their roles on variances, and progress with the implementation the Board.
Directors have reasonable access to senior management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider in their judgement appropriate.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 41 11 Board procedures and authorities The Chairman and Chief Executive determine the agenda for each Board meeting and the necessary papers are distributed in advance so that the matters contained can be properly considered by the directors.
There is in place a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision, and detailed authorities, together with associated procedures, have been established for individual directors in the performance of their duties.
12 Relations with shareholders The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote and participate.
13 Corporate policies The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, health and safety and the environment are maintained, reviewed and monitored on a regular basis.
Page 42 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
