Corporate governance BP has long recognized the importance of good governance.
The board Given the size and geographical diversity of BPs shareholder base, has adopted and operates within a robust set of governance policies that the opportunities for shareholder interaction at the AGM are limited.
go beyond regulatory compliance and are designed to place the interests However, the chairman and all board committee chairmen were present at of our shareholders at the heart of all we do.
Formulated in 1997, these the 2003 AGM to answer questions from shareholders.
All votes, whether policies, which use a principles-based approach, anticipated many by proxy or in person, at shareholder meetings are counted since votes developments in UK governance practices.
on all matters, except procedural issues, are taken by way of a poll.
BP Reports by Derek Higgs now Sir Derek and Sir Robert Smith have has also pioneered the use of electronic communications to facilitate the prompted changes to the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
exercise of shareholder control rights.
BP is already largely compliant with the provisions of the new edition of the Combined Code.
While BP has no obligation to report on the The work of the board in governance application of the new code this year, this report will seek to identify The boards governance policies regulate its relationship with and explain to shareholders those areas in which the board has adopted shareholders, the conduct of board affairs and the boards relationship governance processes that differ from those set out in the new code, with the group chief executive.
The policies recognize the boards and the reasons why it considers it in the companys best interest to separate and unique role as the link in the chain of authority between have done so.
the shareholders and the group chief executive.
In the US, high-profile corporate and accounting failures led to the The dual role played by the group chief executive and executive directors introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which mandates processes as both members of the board and leaders of the executive management and standards for corporate behaviour.
BP has securities registered with is also recognized and addressed.
The policies require a majority of the the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and is obliged to board to be composed of independent non-executive directors and comply with those provisions of the act applicable to foreign private delegate all aspects of the relationship between the board and the group issuers as outlined in its Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
chief executive to the non-executive directors.
To discharge its governance function in the most effective manner, Accountability to shareholders the board has laid down rules for its own activities in a board process The board governance policies emphasize the importance of the relationship policy that covers the conduct of members at meetings: the cycle of between the board and the shareholders, underlining the boards role in board activities and the setting of agendas: the provision of information representing and promoting the interests of shareholders.
The board is to the board: board officers and their roles: board committees accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the entire their tasks and composition: qualifications for board membership and group including, for example, the system of internal control and the review the process of the nomination committee: the assessment of board of its effectiveness.
The board is accountable in a variety of ways.
Directors performance: the remuneration of non-executive directors: the process are required to stand for re-election regularly currently every three years.
for directors to obtain independent advice: and the appointment and New directors are subject to election at the first opportunity following role of the company secretary.
The responsibility for implementation their appointment.
Names submitted to shareholders for re-election are of this policy, which includes training of directors, is placed on accompanied by detailed biographies.
The board has indicated that in future the chairman.
all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
Shareholders will be At its heart, the board process policy recognizes that the boards asked to approve necessary changes to the Articles of Association to permit capacity, as a group, is limited.
The board therefore reserves to itself the such a move at the 2004 annual general meeting AGM.
making of broad policy decisions, delegating more detailed considerations The board is required to be proactive in obtaining an understanding involved in meeting its stated requirements either to board committees of shareholder preferences and to evaluate systematically the economic, and officers in the case of its own processes or to the group chief social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect executive in the case of the management of the companys business the interests of its shareholders.
In carrying out its work, the board has to activity.
The boards role is to set general policy and to monitor its exercise judgement on how best to further the interests of shareholders.
The implementation by the group chief executive.
To this end, the boardboard seeks to do so by maximizing the expected value of the shareholders executive linkage policy sets out how the board delegates authority interests in the company, not by eliminating the possibility of any adverse to the group chief executive and the extent of that authority.
In its goals outcomes for shareholders.
The board considers reports on contacts with policy, the board states the long-term outcome it expects the group chief shareholders so it can promote and represent shareholder interests executive to deliver.
The restrictions on the manner in which the group through its policy-making and monitoring functions and its active chief executive may achieve the required results are set out in the consideration of group strategy.
As a result, shareholder interests are executive limitations policy, which addresses ethics, health, safety, embedded in the goals established by the board for the company.
the environment, financial distress, internal control, risk preferences, treatment of employees and political considerations.
Shareholder communication, meetings and voting The group chief executive explains how he intends to deliver the The board makes use of a number of formal communication channels required outcome in annual and medium-term plans, which also respond to account to shareholders for the performance of the company.
These to the groups comprehensive assessment of risks.
Progress towards include the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual Review, the Annual the expected outcome forms the basis of a report to the board that Report on Form 20-F, quarterly announcements made through stock covers actual results and a forecast of results for the current year.
This exchanges on which BP shares are listed, as well as through the AGM.
report is reviewed at each board meeting.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the The board-executive linkage policy also sets out how the group chief investment community are available simultaneously to all shareholders, executives performance will be monitored and recognizes that, in the by live internet broadcast or open conference call.
Less formal processes multitude of changing circumstances, judgement is always involved.
The include the chairmans contact with institutional shareholders, which is group chief executive is obliged through dialogue and systematic review supported by the dialogue with shareholders concerning the governance to discuss with the board all material matters currently or prospectively and operation of the group maintained by the company secretarys office.
affecting the company and its performance and all strategic projects or 102 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 developments.
This key dialogue specifically includes any materially to be non-executive directors: throughout 2003 the posts were held by under-performing business activities and actions that breach the Mr Sutherland and Sir Ian Prosser respectively.
Sir Ian also acts as the executive limitations policy.
It also includes social, environmental and senior independent director and is the director whom shareholders may ethical considerations.
The systems set out in the board-executive linkage contact if they feel their concerns are not being addressed through normal policy are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure channels.
The company secretary reports to the chairman and is not part to achieve the board goals policy or observe the executive limitations of the executive management.
The company secretarys office provides policy.
They provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material support to all the non-executive directors, ensuring that board and board misstatement or loss.
committee processes are demonstrably independent of the executive management of the group.
Board committees The board process policy allocates the tasks of monitoring executive Board succession planning actions and assessing performance to the following committees: The board is composed of the chairman, eleven non-executive and six Audit Committee to monitor all reporting, accounting, financial executive directors.
A number of current directors are approaching the and control aspects of the executive managements activities.
boards mandatory retirement age for non-executive directors age 70.
Ethics and Environment Assurance Committee to monitor the To manage the process of board succession without compromising the non-financial aspects of the executive managements activities.
effectiveness of the board and its committees, the board has agreed the Remuneration Committee to determine performance contracts, following timetable of non-executive appointments and retirements, targets and the structure of the rewards for the group chief executive subject always to directors continued re-election.
Mr Maljers retires from and the executive directors and to monitor the policies being applied in the board at the 2004 AGM, while Mr Knight and Sir Robin Nicholson will remunerating other senior executives.
Mr Bryan and Mr Miles will retire at the 2006 These tasks prescribe the authority and the role of the committees.
AGM and Mr Wilson at the 2007 AGM.
Mr Burgmans joined the board Reports for each of these committees for 2003 appear on pages 104-105. in February 2004 as a non-executive director.
An additional non-executive The board process policy establishes two further committees, whose director is expected to join the board during 2004, with at least one tasks are focused on assessing the overall performance of the group chief further new non-executive director to be appointed before the 2005 executive, the structure and effectiveness of the business organization AGM.
Further non-executive directors will be appointed over the including the board and succession planning for both executive and coming years.
The Chairmans Committee comprises all the In making appointments as non-executive directors, the opportunity non-executive directors.
It considers broad issues of governance, including is taken to ensure a broad range of skill-sets, in particular those skills matters referred to it for an opinion from any other board committee.
identified following consideration of the board and board committee The Nomination Committee, formally tasked with the identification and evaluation processes see page 104. evaluation of candidates for appointment or reappointment as director The number of directors will therefore increase in the short term.
or company secretary, has been established with a fluid membership While this will create a large board by UK standards, BP believes that comprising the chairman, group chief executive and three non-executive this is necessary to allow not only sufficient executive director directors drawn from the body of non-executives from time to time.
representation to cover the breadth of the groups business activity External search consultants are retained to propose candidates for but also sufficient non-executive representation to reflect the scale and appointment to the board, with requisite skills and experience identified complexity of the company and to staff the board committees.
A board in the results of the boards annual evaluation processes.
of this size will also allow necessary succession planning for key roles.
During 2003, discussions on board succession planning for both executive and non-executive director appointments and the Independence appointment of the new company secretary took place in the wider The qualification for board membership includes a requirement that all forum of the chairmans committee, so as to allow the broadest possible non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the executive non-executive director participation see section on Board succession management of the company that could materially interfere with planning.
The board has determined that from now on the nomination the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, committee will comprise the chairman, the senior independent director and all non-executive directors fulfil this requirement.
It has therefore the chairmen of each of the audit, the ethics and environment assurance determined all twelve to be independent directors.
The group chief executive will be invited Two current directors, Mr Knight and Sir Robin Nicholson, were appointed to attend meetings and participate in discussions when appropriate.
Mr Miles was appointed in 1994.
The length of their respective service on the board exceeds the nine years referred to in the Board meetings and board attendance new Combined Code, which provides that an explanation be made to In addition to the AGM which all directors attended, the board met shareholders concerning their continuing independence.
The board considers eight times during 2003, five times in the UK and three times in the US.
that the integrity and independence of character of these directors are Two of these meetings were two-day strategy discussions.
beyond doubt, while their experience and long-term perspective on BPs All directors attended all board meetings, except that Mr Davis, business during its recent period of growth provide a valuable and unique Mr Maljers, Dr Massey and Sir Robin Nicholson were absent from contribution to the board.
Both Mr Knight and Sir Robin will retire at next one board meeting each.
However, whenever necessary, absent board years AGM, having seen through ongoing work in the remuneration members joined meetings by video-link for relevant items.
committee as outlined in the directors remuneration report.
Sir Robin is standing for re-election in 2004.
Mr Miles will continue until 2006.
The chairman, senior independent director and company secretary.
Those directors who joined the BP board in 1998 after service on the Between board meetings the chairman has responsibility for ensuring board of Amoco Corporation are considered independent since the most the integrity and effectiveness of the board executive relationship.
The senior executive management of BP comprises individuals who were board governance policies require the chairman and deputy chairman not previously Amoco employees.
Moreover, the scope and scale of 103 the BP group are fundamentally different from those of the former Combined Code Provision C. 3.3.
The committee is satisfied that it Amoco Corporation.
addresses each of those matters identified as properly falling within The board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the an audit committees purview.
independence of those directors who serve together as directors on the The committee structures its work programme so as to discharge boards of outside entities or who have other appointments in outside its tasks, which include systematic monitoring and obtaining assurance entities and that, where necessary, appropriate processes are in place that the legally required standards of disclosure are being fully and fairly to manage any possible conflict of interest.
observed and that the executive limitations relating to financial matters Sir Robin Nicholson received fees during 2003 for representing the board are being observed.
All annual and quarterly financial reports are reviewed on the BP Technology Advisory Council.
Since these fees relate to board by the committee through a process of engaging with the representatives representation, they do not compromise Sir Robins independence.
of executive management specifically the chief financial officer, the Mr Miles received fees for his service as a director of BP Pension Trustees group chief accounting officer and the group controller as well as with Limited BPPT during 2003.
These fees, payable to all non-employed BPPT the external and internal auditors.
The committee discusses significant directors, are modest in size and as such are not considered to affect accounting policies, estimates and judgements applied in the preparation Mr Miless independence.
However, he has agreed that from now on no of these reports and obtains assurance from the external auditors such fees should be payable in respect of his service as a director of BPPT.
of their support or any area of difference.
The committee gives its Full details of these fees are disclosed on page 114. recommendation to the board concerning the adoption and publication of all financial reports to shareholders.
Induction, training and evaluation The committee keeps under review the scope and results of external Directors receive induction on their appointment to the board as audit work, its cost-effectiveness and the independence and objectivity appropriate, covering matters such as the operation and activities of the of the auditors.
It requires the auditors to rotate their lead audit partner group including key financial, business, social and environmental risks to every five years and, in accordance with its policy on non-audit services the groups activities, the role of the board and the matters reserved for provided by the auditors, the committee reviews and approves the award its decision, the tasks and membership of the principal board committees, of any such work.
This is limited to defined audit-related work and tax and the powers delegated to those committees, the boards governance services that fall within specific categories.
Further details may be found policies and practices, and the latest financial information about the in Note 9 on Accounts on page 50. group.
The training and induction processes for directors are evolving The committee has considered the appointment of the auditor for the to take into account the development of the group and applicable group for 2004 and recommended to the board that Ernst & Young LLP governance standards.
Throughout their period in office the directors be proposed for reappointment, having noted with satisfaction the scope are updated on BPs business, the environment in which it operates and and results of their audit work, their objectivity and independence, and other matters.
With the agreement of the board, executive directors are having received due assurance regarding Ernst & Youngs objectivity, permitted to take up external board appointments.
It is the companys independence and viability in the year ahead.
The board duly endorsed policy that executive directors may retain any fees received in respect of the committees recommendation.
Aside from its review of all financial reports and monitoring of external Directors are advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and audit work, the committee considers the internal audit programme and obligations as directors of a listed company.
The board regularly considers reviews matters identified in it.
The committee also receives regular the implications of these duties under BPs board governance policies.
The reports on development in financial reporting practices so as to keep directors addressed developments in corporate regulation and governance abreast of current thinking on accounting policies and standards.
affecting BP and their role as directors, endorsing the approach to be taken During the course of the year the committee considered a number of by the company.
matters including internal financial control and risk management systems During 2003, the board continued annual evaluation processes to within three major business segments, the integration of Veba in Europe, assess its performance and identify areas in which the effectiveness of the companys risk management processes in Indonesia and the the board, its policies or process might be enhanced.
Directors completed monitoring of international accounting developments.
questionnaires and subsequently met with the chairman to discuss their The committee has also adopted group-wide procedures to ensure views.
The results of the evaluation process were presented to the board that it is alerted to issues of fraud or matters of concern raised related and the matters identified addressed.
Board committees have begun to the finances and financial accounting policies of the group.
to conduct more structured evaluation of their performance, leading to refinements in their processes, composition and work programmes.
Ethics and environment assurance committee report The committee, chaired by Dr Massey, met four times during 2003.
Audit committee report Members of the ethics and environment assurance committee The committee, chaired by Sir Ian Prosser, met nine times during 2003. all independent non-executive directors are listed on pages 116-117.
Members of the audit committee all independent non-executive directors The external auditors lead partner and the BP general auditor head are listed on pages 116-117.
The external auditors lead partner and the of internal audit attend each meeting at the request of the committee BP general auditor head of internal audit attend each meeting at the chairman.
Committee meetings were fully attended, except that request of the committee chairman.
Audit committee meetings were Mr Maljers was unable to attend two meetings and Mr Wilson fully attended, except that Mr Bryan, Mr Davis, Mr Miles and Mr Wilson one meeting.
were each unable to attend one meeting.
The board considers that the The committee considers matters relating to the executive membership of the audit committee as a whole has sufficient recent managements processes to address environmental, social and and relevant financial experience to discharge its functions, but it has reputation issues and the systems in place to manage non-financial determined not to identify any single member as having such experience.
It receives a report at each meeting from the deputy The audit committees tasks outlined on page 103 are considered group chief executive on behalf of the executive management of the by the committee to be broader than those envisaged under the new group.
During the course of the year, the committee considered a number 104 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors interests of specific topics, including environmental remediation, the companys in BP ordinary shares or calculated equivalents system of certifying adherence by staff to its ethical standards, greenhouse gas emissions and the management of risk in shipping At 1 Jan 2003 Change from or on 31 Dec 2003- operations.
The company also sought and received regular reports on At 31 Dec 2003 appointment 9 Feb 2004 health, safety, security and environmental HSSE performance and the Current directors companys employee concerns programme OpenTalk.
excluding director appointed in 2004 a a, b Dr D C Allen 371,365 306,565 c c Remuneration committee report Lord Browne 1,816,054 1,681,652 d d The committee, chaired by Sir Robin Nicholson, met six times during 2003.
J H Bryan 158,760 98,760 d d Members of the remuneration committee all independent non-executive E B Davis, Jr 65,162 63,814 d d directors are listed on page 106.
The directors remuneration report for Dr B E Grote 788,313 722,562 b 2003 is set out on pages 106-115.
Dr A B Hayward 121,692 92,465 83 Dr D S Julius 15,000 2,000 d d Combined Code compliance C F Knight 95,610 92,238 d d BP complied throughout 2003 with the provisions of Section 1 of the F A Maljers 33,492 33,492 b applicable 2002 edition of the Combined Code Principles of Good J A Manzoni 127,821 95,817 83 d d Governance and Code of Best Practice, except in the following aspect.
Dr W E Massey 49,261 48,232 During 2003, not all the members of the nomination committee were H M P Miles 22,145 22,145 identified since three of its members are selected from among the Sir Robin Nicholson 3,897 3,758 non-executive directors when a meeting is arranged.
Leaving part of R L Olver 798,326 738,563 83 the committee membership unspecified allowed the board to manage Sir Ian Prosser 16,301 2,826 the potential for conflicts of interest in recommending candidates for P D Sutherland 30,079 7,079 d d re-election as directors.
However, as is noted on page 103, the M H Wilson 60,000 43,200 nomination committee now comprises the chairman, the senior At retirement At 1 Jan 2003 independent director and the chairmen of the audit, the ethics and Director leaving the board in 2003 environment assurance and the remuneration committees.
e R F Chase 902,817 810,826 Internal control review On Change from The board governance policies include a process for the board to review appointment 5 Feb 2004- regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control as required 5 Feb 2004 9 Feb 2004 by Code provision D. 2.1.
As part of this process, the board, the audit and Director appointed in 2004 the ethics and environment assurance committees requested, received A Burgmans 10,000 and reviewed reports from executive management, including management a Includes 25,368 shares held as ADSs.
of the principal business segments, at their regular meetings.
That enabled b At appointment on 1 February 2003. c them to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal control in Includes 50,368 shares held as ADSs throughout 2003. d Held as ADSs.
operation for managing significant risks throughout the year.
These risks e On leaving the board on 23 April 2003. included those areas identified in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment issued by the Association of British Insurers.
In disclosing the above interests to the company under the Companies Act 1985, directors did not distinguish their beneficial and non-beneficial interests.
This process did not extend to joint ventures or associates.
The executive management presented a report to the January 2004 Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such shares of the company held from time to time by BP QUEST Company Limited and The BP meetings of both the audit and the ethics and environment assurance Employee Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the companys committees to support the board in its annual assessment of internal option schemes.
The report identified and evaluated significant risks and described No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the company, the executive managements assurance process.
It described the changes or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
since the last annual assessment in the nature and potential impact of significant risks and the continuing development of the internal control systems in place to manage them.
Significant incidents that occurred during the year and managements response to them were also described.
The report also included an assessment of future potentially significant risks.
The two committees engage with executive management throughout the year to monitor their management of these risks.
In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control Turnbull.
