"Application of Corporate Governance The Committee on Corporate Governance published its The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to latest report on the principles of good governance and code discharge its duties effectively and the following table gives of best practice the ""Combined Code"" in July 2003. the attendance record for the meetings held during the Whilst the Company will only be required to comply with year: the requirements of the new Combined Code for the year Audit Management Board Committee Engagement ended 31 December 2004, the Directors have included a Meetings Meetings Committe Meeting number of the new requirements in this report."
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Robert Walther 44 2 2 1 1 The Company is committed to high standards of corporate David Simpson 44 2 2 1 1 governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for Johan Bjrkman 44 2 2 1 1 corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust company and which will enable the Simon Fraser 4 4 n a n a n a n a Company to comply with the relevant provisions of the Simon Duckworth 44 2 2 1 1 Combined Code and the provisions of the AITC Code of Corporate Governance.
Chairman and chief executive - The Company does not have The Board considers that the Company has complied with a chief executive officer as such but, by virtue of employing the provisions contained within the Combined Code issued a management company, these roles are separated.
As the in June 1998 throughout the year ended 31 December Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors, the 2003, except where disclosed below, and this statement Board has concluded that there is no need to appoint a describes how the relevant principles of governance are senior independent Director.
This is in accordance with the applied to the Company.
AITC Code on Corporate Governance.
Directors Board balance - The Board consists of Directors who between The Board The Board of Directors has the responsibility them, have good knowledge and wide experience of for the Companys affairs.
All matters which are not business in Europe and of investment trusts.
Biographical delegated to the Companys Manager under the details of all Directors including their directorships are given Management Agreement are reserved for the Boards on page 4 of this report.
The Board ensures that it conducts decision.
Matters reserved for the Board include, inter alia, its business at all times with only the interests of the decisions on gearing, Board appointments, appointment of shareholders in mind and quite independently of any other the Company Secretary, strategy, Company structure and associations.
It meets at least four times a year and risk management strategy.
endeavours to provide leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
Between these meetings there is regular The Board currently consists of five non-executive contact with the Manager.
Directors, of which four are independent of the Companys Manager.
Mr Simon Fraser is an employee of Supply and agenda of information - The quarterly Board meeting papers are the key source of regular information for the the Manager and is therefore not independent.
In Board, the contents of which are determined by the Board considering the independence of the Chairman, who has and contain sufficient information on the financial condition served as a Director for more than nine years, the Board of the Company.
Key representatives of the Manager attend has taken note of the AITC Code on Corporate each Board meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on Governance and concluded that lengthy service on a matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The board does not of itself compromise independence from Directors have access to the advice and services of the the Manager and it believes that Robert Walther is Company Secretary through its appointed representative, therefore an independent Director.
These independent who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Directors form the members of the Audit Committee and procedures are followed and that applicable rules and the Management Engagement Committee.
The Directors also have the 19 Application of Corporate Governance ability to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at Remuneration Report on page 22. the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors Shareholders The Board regularly monitors the shareholder and Officers liability insurance through the Manager.
profile of the Company and liaises with the Manager and the Appointments to the Board The Company complies with the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and requirements of the AITC Code on Corporate Governance communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board is in respect of appointments to the Board.
Whilst the concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for independent Directors take the lead in the appointment of dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It believes new Directors, any proposal for a new Director will be the Companys institutional shareholders do have proper discussed and approved by all of the Board.
"As a access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if they so consequence, there is no ""Nomination Committee""."
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the External consultants may be used to identify potential Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary candidates.
Upon appointment, each Director receives whose details are given on page 41.
All shareholders, training on the investment operations and administration particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to functions of the Company, together with a summary of attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is always their duties and responsibilities.
The terms and conditions a presentation of the past years results and the forthcoming of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the the registered office of the Company.
Performance evaluation A process for the evaluation of the All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is Board, its Committees and its Directors has been put in called, are reported for each resolution after it has been place to enable the Board to comply with this requirement dealt with on a show of hands.
for the year ending 31 December 2004.
This takes the The Notice of Meeting on pages 42 to 44 sets out the form of written questionnaires and interviews.
business of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate Re-election - As required by company law, all newly resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue appointed Directors stand for election by the shareholders including the Annual Report and Accounts.
at the next Annual General Meeting following their The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit appointment.
The Directors retire by rotation and offer Committee will be available to answer questions at the themselves for re-election by shareholders every three Annual General Meeting.
Directors who have reached the age of 70 are subject to annual re-election.
Directors who have served on the The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related Board for more than nine years are subject to annual papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days re-election.
The representative of the Manager will be before the meeting.
subject to annual re-election from 2005.
A procedure has been put in place whereby formal letters of appointment, Accountability and Audit which specify the terms of appointment, are issued to new Financial Reporting - Set out on page 18 is a statement by Directors on appointment and to existing Directors as the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the they retire and are subject to re-election at the Annual accounts.
The Auditors have set out their reporting General Meeting.
responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages 23 and 24.
"Directors remuneration - The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole Board and therefore a separate Going concern - The Directors believe that it is appropriate to ""Remuneration Committee"" has not been appointed."
Since continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not accounts since the assets of the Company consist mainly of required to comply with the principles of the Code in securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the respect of executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees Company has adequate financial resources to continue in are disclosed fully in each Annual Report see the Directors operational existence for the foreseeable future.
20 Internal control - The Code requires the Directors to review effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control.
The identification, control and evaluation of risk is Audit Committee and Independent Auditors As noted earlier, formulated by a series of quarterly investment performance an Audit Committee has been established, consisting of all reports, a semi-annual internal controls report and quarterly the independent Directors, which is chaired by Mr David compliance reports as provided by the Manager.
The Board has taken note of the suggestion that a of internal controls are designed to manage rather than member of the Audit Committee should have recent and eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can relevant financial experience and believes that the members only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against of this Committee have the necessary skills and experience to material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has contractually discharge their responsibilities fully.
The Committees delegated to external agencies, including the Investment authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, the reference which are available for inspection at the Companys custodial services which include the safeguarding of the registered office.
These include responsibility for reviewing assets, the registration services and the day-to-day the annual and interim reports, annually reviewing the scope accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of and results of the audit and the effectiveness and cost of the these contracts was entered into after full and proper audit process.
They also include responsibility for reviewing consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services and monitoring the external Auditors independence and offered including the control systems in operation in so far as objectivity with particular regard to the provision of nonthey relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets with the Independent Auditors at least once a year to review these The Companys Audit Committee meets with representatives and other appropriate matters.
of the Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management Management Engagement Committee - The Management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
It reviews Engagement Committee, with written terms of reference, the annual and interim accounts and reviews the nature and meets once a year and considers both the continuation and scope of the external audit and the findings from the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Committee Companys statutory audit.
The Board carries out a risk and consists of all the independent Directors and is chaired by control assessment including a review of the Managers risk Mr Robert Walther.
The key element of this assessment is the semi-annual internal controls report prepared by the Institutional shareholders - The Board has adopted the Manager for its investment trust clients.
The internal controls Managers Principles of Ownership in relation to investments.
report sets out the Managers control policies and procedures These principles include the pursuit of an active investment with respect to the management of its clients investments.
policy through portfolio management decisions, voting on Whilst the Company, in common with most investment resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a continuing trusts, has no internal audit department, the effectiveness of dialogue with the management of investee companies.
In its these controls is monitored by the Managers compliance and Principles of Ownership, the Manager expressly declares that internal audit functions.
The Audit Committee has received it supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the and reviewed the internal controls report on the effectiveness Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company, responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
and an annual compliance report from the Managers Director The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the of Compliance.
"By means of the procedures set out above and Company in accordance with the Managers existing in accordance with ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors guidelines and policies."
"on the Combined Code"" published by the Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, On behalf of the Board the Directors have established an ongoing process for Robert Walther identifying, evaluating and managing the significant 16 March 2004 risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the 21"
