"The Board has reviewed and endorsed the Managers The Board has considered the principles set out in the approach to corporate governance, socially responsible Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the investment, shareholder activism and voting policy which is UK Listing Authority the ""Code"" and has also considered set out under Investment Management on page 25, and the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance receives periodic reports on its implementation."
"issued by the Financial Reporting Council the ""revised In 2003, the Chairman and Mr Macpherson attended all of Code"" and the AITC Code on Corporate Governance the the 10 Board meetings."
"Mr Clarke attended eight Board ""AITC Code"", both of which were published in July 2003. meetings and each of the other Directors attended nine of The Company has complied throughout the year under the meetings."
Prior to his retirement on 7 May 2003, Lord review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Rockley attended one of the three Board meetings that he The Board believes that the Companys current practice, was entitled to attend.
The overall attendance rate of given the special circumstances of an investment trust current Directors at Board meetings in 2003 was over 90%.
company, is in all material respects consistent with the All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
The principles of the Code, and that it has taken the necessary Board also met in closed session, without any representation steps to comply with the principles of the revised Code, from the Manager, on one occasion during the year.
save that the Company does not have in place its own The Board believes that it has at present a reasonable internal audit function the reasons for which are explained balance of skills, experience, ages and length of service.
The Board is also adhering to the principles Board recognises the value of progressive refreshing of, and and recommendations of the AITC Code.
succession planning for, company boards.
Accordingly, the appointment of each Director retiring at the forthcoming THE BOARD Annual General Meeting has been reviewed by the The biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are Nomination Committee prior to submission for re-election: resident in the UK, and information on those Directors under the Articles of Association, all Directors are required to standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting can submit themselves for re-election at least every three years be found on pages 6, 19 and 22 respectively.
and it is a requirement of the revised Code that a Director The Board, which met 10 times in 2003, is responsible for having served in excess of nine years should stand for rethe effective stewardship of the Companys affairs and has election annually.
The Board acknowledges the rationale of reviewed the schedule of matters reserved for its decision, the revised Code under which any term beyond six years for which are categorised under various headings, including a non-executive director should be subject to particularly strategy, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, rigorous review, and also the rationale for annual re-election performance, appointments, the Board and public after nine years.
Nevertheless, the Board is of the view that documents.
It has responsibility for all corporate strategic length of service will not necessarily compromise the issues, dividend policy, share buy-back policy and independence or contribution of directors of an investment corporate governance matters.
In order to enable them to trust company, where continuity and experience can add discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and significantly to the strength of a board.
No limit on the overall timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting the length of service of any of the Companys Directors, Board reviews the Companys investment performance and including the Chairman, has therefore been imposed.
considers financial analyses and other reports of an In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Committees and the individual Directors, the Chairman has Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset put in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the This encompasses both quantitative and qualitative measures Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises the of performance in respect of the Board and the Committees management of the investment portfolio which is implemented by way of an Evaluation Survey, a questionnaire contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has and interviews with the Chairman.
The Fund Manager and the responsibility for the approval of private equity and Company Secretary also participated in this part of the unquoted investments and all investments in in-house funds process to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
With managed or advised by the Manager.
Certain strategic regard to individual Directors, the performance appraisal was issues, including acquisition opportunities and the rationale qualitative, implemented by way of a questionnaire and an for not introducing a continuation vote, have been appraisal meeting with the Chairman.
The Chairman considered at various meetings of the Board, and a introduced meetings with each individual Director in 2002 and separate strategy session is planned to be held later in 21 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 a formal appraisal process was conducted for the first time in Group, in which he was no longer involved.
Mr Loveday and December 2003 and January 2004 in accordance with the the Company have small shareholdings in Cazenove Group best practice recommendations of the revised Code in respect plc.
Mr Loveday did not advise the Board personally during of the year under review.
The appraisal of the Chairman his time as senior partner of Cazenove & Co. and the Board follows the same process and is carried out by the Board as a does not consider that his independence is compromised whole under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director by this past connection.
Other than Mr Loveday's in the absence of the Chairman.
The process is considered by trusteeship of the Grosvenor Estate and related the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for directorships of Deva Group Limited and Deva Holdings improving the functioning and performance of the Board and Limited, he has no other external business responsibilities.
the Committees and the contribution of individual Directors, as The Board appointed Mr Macpherson as the Senior well as building on and developing individual and collective Independent Director of the Company following the strengths.
The Board has considered the option of using retirement of Lord Rockley on 7 May 2003.
"Mr Macpherson external appraisal consultants and, whilst it believes that this is has been a non-executive director of Pantheon International unlikely to provide any meaningful advantage over the internal Participations PLC ""PIP"" since 1998 and was appointed process that has been adopted, the option of using such non-executive chairman of that company in November consultants will be kept under review."
PIP is a listed investment trust managed on an arms The Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, length basis by Pantheon Ventures Limited, a private wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent management company, which also manages independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
part of the Company's private equity portfolio.
Mr The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice Macpherson is not a director of, nor does he receive any and services of the Manager which, through its nominated fees from, Pantheon Ventures Limited, and neither he, PIP representative, is responsible for ensuring that Board and nor the Company hold shares in Pantheon Ventures Committee procedures are followed, and that applicable Limited.
The Board does not consider that this regulations are complied with.
During the year the Company appointment compromises Mr Macpherson's independence has maintained appropriate insurance cover in respect of as a Director of the Company as the Company and PIP legal action against the Directors.
have no connection and consequently there has not arisen, nor, in the Boards opinion, is there likely to arise, any INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS potential conflict of interest from Mr Macphersons The Board, which is composed solely of non-executive relationships with the Company and PIP.
Directors, regularly reviews the independence of its members.
Ms Haruko Fukuda has served as a Director for 15 years All the Directors are independent of the Manager, on the and is assessed by the Nomination Committee, such grounds that none of the Directors has a past or current assessment being endorsed by the Board, as continuing to connection with the Manager.
All the Directors are also be independent of the Company, on the grounds that she independent of the Company itself as, in the opinion of the has always been, and remains, independent in character Board, each Director is independent in character and and judgement.
Having served in excess of judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances nine years, Ms Fukuda will stand for re-election at the relating to the Company that are likely to affect their Annual General Meeting in 2004.
It is Ms Fukuda's judgement.
Whilst the Board currently comprises independent intention to retire from the Board immediately following the directors only, it is nevertheless prepared to have a minority of annual general meeting in 2005. non-independent directors should this be considered appropriate at any stage.
There is no chief executive position BOARD COMMITTEES within the Company, as day-to-day management of the The Board has appointed a number of committees as set Companys affairs, with the exception of private equity out below.
Copies of the terms of reference of each investment, has been delegated to the Manager.
committee are available on request, and can also be found The Chairman, Mr Mark Loveday, retired as senior partner on the F&C website at www.
of the Company's corporate stockbroker, Cazenove & Co.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE in April 2001, and retired on 30 April 2003 as a director of The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Mark Loveday one of its subsidiaries, which provides in-house services Chairman, The Rt.
Kenneth Clarke and Mr Ewen within the Cazenove Group.
Mr Loveday held the Macpherson, who replaced Lord Rockley upon the latter's directorship, receiving nominal directors fees, for reasons retirement from the Board following the annual general unrelated to the business and affairs of the Cazenove meeting in 2003.
The Committee met with all members in 22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 attendance, on one occasion in 2003.
It is planned to hold can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page at least two meetings of the Committee in 2004 and in 26 and in note 5 on the accounts.
PRIVATE EQUITY COMMITTEE The role of the Committee is to review and make The Board has established a Private Equity Committee recommendations with regard to the Board structure, size comprising Sir Michael Bunbury Chairman, Mr Ewen and composition, the balance of knowledge, experience, Macpherson and Mr Max Ward, which met on two occasions skill ranges and age profile and consider succession in 2003 and in February 2004 with all members in attendance.
It also considers the criteria for Mr Mark Loveday was a member of the Committee from its future Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, inception in July 2002 until November 2003 when he stood selection, appointment and induction.
The function of the Committee is to monitor and assess makes recommendations to the Board with regard to the performance of the Company's private equity investments committee membership, the re-appointment of those managed by HarbourVest Partners and Pantheon Ventures Directors standing for re-election at annual general Limited and these responsibilities have been carried out in meetings, variations in terms of appointment and the respect of the period under review.
Sir Michael Bunbury was question of each Director's independence prior to appointed to the Pantheon Advisory Board and to the publication of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
These HarbourVest Partners Advisory Committee during the year for matters were carried out at meetings of the Committee held the purpose of representing the interests of the Company.
No in September 2003 and January 2004. remuneration is paid by the private equity managers to Sir No new appointments were made to the Board during the Michael Bunbury in respect of these appointments.
The final decision with regard to appointments always CHARITY COMMITTEE rests with the Board and all such appointments are subject As explained on page 20 of the Report of the Directors, the to confirmation by shareholders.
Board decided during the course of the year to discontinue An induction process has been prepared for new regular donations to charities.
As a result of this decision appointees to the Board.
This will involve a full briefing on the Charity Committee was discontinued in November the workings and processes of the Company by the 2003.
The Committee members were Mr Robert Adams Chairman, the Fund Manager, the Company Secretary and and Sir Andrew Wood, the latter having been appointed to other appropriate persons within F&C.
New appointees will replace Mr Rennocks on 7 May 2003. also be issued with a Company Handbook and other key AUDIT AND MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT documentation.
"Major shareholders will be given the COMMITTEE THE ""AUDIT COMMITTEE"" opportunity to meet any newly appointed Director."
The Audit Committee comprises Mr John Rennocks The Committee's terms of reference, which fully set out its Chairman, Mr Ewen Macpherson and Sir Michael Bunbury responsibilities, were reviewed at its meeting in September and met, with all members in attendance, on three 2003 and amended to incorporate the best practice occasions in 2003 and in February 2004.
Ms Haruko recommendations and requirements of the revised Code.
Fukuda stepped down from the Audit Committee on 7 May REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 2003 whereupon Mr Rennocks was appointed Chairman As the Board has no executive Directors and no employees, and Sir Michael Bunbury joined.
Mr Rennocks is a and is composed solely of non-executives, it does not have a Chartered Accountant and was previously finance director Remuneration Committee.
It is the responsibility of the Board at Smith and Nephew, Powergen and British Steel Corus.
as a whole to determine and approve the Directors fees, The primary responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to following a recommendation from the Chairman who will have monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the given the matter proper consideration, having regard to the Company and any formal announcements relating to the level of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry Companys financial performance: to review the Companys generally, the role that individual Directors fulfil in respect of internal financial controls and the internal control and risk Board and Committee responsibilities and the time committed management systems applicable to the Company: to review to the Companys affairs.
The Chairmans remuneration is annually the need for the Company to have its own internal decided and approved by the Board under the leadership of audit function: to make recommendations to the Board in the Senior Independent Director.
The Companys Articles of relation to the re-appointment of the Auditors and to Association limit the aggregate fees payable to the Board to a approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: to total of 350,000 per annum.
Detailed information on the review and monitor the Auditors independence and remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and to 23 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 develop and implement policy on the engagement of the which has its own Internal Audit and Risk department, and Auditors to supply non-audit services.
The Audit Committee whose controls are monitored by the Board.
The Audit has responsibility for considering the performance of the Committee has received and reviewed the Statement referred Manager in providing company secretarial, accounting, to under Internal Controls and Management of Risk below, administrative and marketing services provided by the together with a report from the Managers group audit Manager.
It is also responsible for carrying out a full annual committee on the effectiveness of the internal controls review of the investment management contract with the maintained on behalf of the Company and an annual Manager, including the level and structure of fees payable compliance report from the Managers director of compliance.
"and the length of the notice period, details of which are set The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, out in the Report of the Directors on page 19. the ""whistleblowing"" policy that has been put in place by the Other responsibilities that are carried out by the Audit Manager under which its staff may, in confidence, raise Committee include the review of key delegated services, concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial Directors and Officers liability insurance renewal, dealing reporting or other matters."
The necessary arrangements are costs and efficiency, stock lending limits, soft commission in place for proportionate and independent investigation of arrangements, custodian arrangements and intellectual such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee's terms of reference, which fully set The Audit Committee has direct access to the Auditors, out its responsibilities, were reviewed at its meetings in  LLP, and to the compliance and October 2003 and February 2004 and amended to internal audit and risk directors of the Manager, and to the incorporate the best practice recommendations and Managers group audit committee and reports its findings to requirements of the revised Code.
The Board retains ultimate responsibility for all INTERNAL CONTROLS AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK aspects relating to the annual and interim accounts and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys other significant published financial information.
systems of internal controls and for reviewing their All of the Audit Committees responsibilities have been carried effectiveness.
These aim to ensure that assets of the out at its meetings held over the course of 2003 and in Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records are February 2004.
A meeting has been held with the Auditors to maintained, and the financial information used within the review the work carried out for the audit of the annual business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks financial statements.
The Auditors also attend each Audit identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk Committee meeting and, on the basis of these meetings, the management, is embedded in the controls of the Company by Audit Committee has been able to assess the effectiveness of a series of monthly investment performance and attribution the external audit.
In completing this review, the Audit statements, financial and risk analyses and Managers reports, Committee has taken into account the standing, experience and a quarterly control report.
Typical areas of risk material to and tenure of the audit partner and his team, the nature and investment trusts in general, and which have been identified level of services provided, and confirmation that they have and are monitored as part of the control process, include complied with the relevant UK independence standards.
The excessive gearing, inappropriate long term investment Manager and the Company use different audit firms.
The strategy, loss of management personnel and potential loss of Audit Committee has also reviewed the provision of non-audit section 842 status under the provisions of the Income and services and considers them to be cost effective and in no Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The control report incorporates a way impede the independence of the Auditors.
The non-audit key risk table that identifies the risks to which the Company is services include taxation and corporate governance matters exposed and the controls in place to mitigate them, and and the review of the interim results.
The Chairman of the includes those risks that are not directly the responsibility of Audit Committee is advised of non-audit work required and a the Manager and details of any known internal control decision to authorise is taken on a case by case basis.
The systems of internal controls are designed to cost, which for 2003 was 32,000 and is found in notes 4 manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business and 18 on the accounts, is not normally of a material nature.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Board has concluded that there is no current need for the The Board has carried out a risk and control assessment Company to have an internal audit function: all of the including a review of the Managers risk management Companys management functions, with the exception of infrastructure.
"A key element of this assessment was the private equity investment, are delegated to the Manager, Statement of Internal Corporate Governance for the year 24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003 ended 31 December 2003 the ""Statement"" prepared by the the investment in the company."
Manager for its investment trust clients to the standards of the The Manager supports the boards of companies unless it Financial Reporting and Auditing Group Technical Release sees clear investment reasons for doing otherwise.
"During 21 94 ""FRAG21"" issued by the Institute of Chartered the year the Manager wrote to 32 UK companies on Accountants in England and Wales."
Containing a report from corporate governance matters, including succession, independent external accountants, the Statement sets out the contract periods and remuneration issues, and on occasion Managers control policies and procedures with respect to the has exercised its right to vote against resolutions or to management of its clients investments.
The effectiveness of abstain from voting: it is the Manager's policy to exercise its these controls is monitored by the Managers group audit voting rights at shareholder meetings of UK investee committee which receives regular reports from the Managers companies and, as far as practicable, all overseas compliance and audit and risk departments.
Decisions on contested takeover bids are above under Audit and Management Engagement always referred to the Companys Board of Directors.
Committee, the Board has concluded that there is no current The Managers current policy, which is available on the F&C need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
website, has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which encourages and supports the Manager on its voting INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT policy and its stance towards SRI and shareholder activism.
The Board has contractually delegated the management of The Board receives periodic reports on the implementation the investment portfolio to the Manager except in respect of of this policy.
certain private equity investments managed by other fund managers, giving the Manager responsibility for gearing, RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS asset allocation and sector and stock selection within the Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
limits set and regularly reviewed and monitored by the Shareholders can receive either an Annual Review and Board.
The Board has also delegated the monitoring of the Summary Financial Statement, which is designed to meet operation of custodial services and the provision of the information needs of most investors, or, upon request, a accounting, company secretarial and marketing services to copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts of the the Manager.
The Board receives regular reports on the Company.
At the half-year stage an Interim Report is sent marketing activities carried out by the Manager which has no out to all shareholders.
Information in updated form is also open-end fund business competing with the Company.
available on the F&C website at www.
"The Manager has developed and published a policy on A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys corporate governance, voting policy and socially responsible institutional shareholders and private client asset managers investment ""SRI""."
The policy reflects the Statement of and, at annual general meetings, all investors have the Principles on the Responsibilities of Institutional Shareholders opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and the and Agents drawn up in 2002 by the Institutional Fund Manager.
Proxy voting figures are announced to the Shareholders Committee.
The Manager believes that the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
interests of its clients are served by investing in companies During the year the Chairman wrote to the top 18 institutional that adopt best practice in corporate governance.
shareholders and to 24 of the largest private client asset The Manager seeks to encourage companies to be socially managers as a result of which meetings were held with 16 of responsible and is attracted to invest in those that are.
Its these shareholders, some of which were also attended by the approach to SRI is designed to contribute to maintaining Fund Manager.
In total, shareholders representing 33% of the and improving standards of social responsibility in the share capital were invited to meet with the Chairman and corporate sector.
It also aims to avoid investing in any those owning 15% of the share capital took the opportunity to company that does not meet generally accepted standards of do so.
The meetings were constructive in providing a two-way social responsibility, unless there is a reasonable prospect of forum for the canvassing of shareholder views and gauging improvements that would raise the companys standards to an opinion.
The programme will be continued in 2004 and the adequate level.
Should the Manager become aware of Senior Independent Director will attend some of the meetings occurrences of social irresponsibility at a company in which its with the Chairman and, if so required, will attend on his own.
clients are invested, it will state its dissatisfaction to the Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, management with the objective of achieving desirable the Senior Independent Director or any other member of the changes.
If this approach fails to achieve the desired objective, Board may do so by writing to the Company, for the then the Manager will attempt to change or further influence attention of the Secretary at the address set out on page 7 the management concerned or, alternatively, consider selling or by e-mailing to FCITCoSec@fandc.
25 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Report and Accounts 2003
