Corporate Governance Report The Board Chairman and the executive directors, the Board is able to lead and give direction to the Group without any imbalance that Role: The Board provides leadership of the Group and, either may allow any individual or group of individuals to dominate directly or through the operation of committees of directors its decision taking.
Any director having a concern in this or constituted with appropriate written terms of reference and any other regard may raise it with the Chairman or the Senior delegated authority, brings an independent judgement on all Independent Director.
All directors also have access to the issues of strategy, performance, resources including key advice and services of the Company Secretary who ensures appointments and standards of conduct.
The Board sets the that Board process and leading corporate governance practice Groups strategic aims, which it then implements through its are followed.
There is also an established procedure whereby approval and regular monitoring of a business plan and budget individual directors, who consider it necessary in furtherance prepared by the executive directors.
This plan relates to the of their duties, may take independent, professional advice at Groups two core businesses: life and pensions and asset the Companys expense.
Each core business is organised through a group of subsidiary companies, each group having a principal Performance and continual professional development: operating company: Friends Provident Life and Pensions The Boards formal annual evaluation of its own performance Limited FPLP for the life and pensions business and ISIS and that of its committees and individual directors was Asset Management plc ISIS for the asset management effected in November 2003 by each director completing a business.
ISIS is 67% owned by the parent company and is self-assessment questionnaire prepared internally.
The Board itself listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The business plan will keep this process under review to ensure that analyses species key developments towards the strategic objectives of the outcome of this evaluation will give the Board generally that are to be achieved by management within an agreed and the Chairman and the Nomination Committee in particular budget.
At its monthly meetings, supplied with information the information they need to continue to full the intentions which is both timely and appropriate, the Board deals with underlying the requirements of the Combined Code during those matters specically reserved for its decision, and takes 2004.
Directors also individually attend external seminars and all material decisions affecting the Group.
These include briengs to keep up-to-date with regulations and best practice acquisitions, sales, capital expenditure and nancing, and the affecting the Groups core businesses: and have agreed in oversight and review of the operation and achievement of the future to report on these to the Chairman and the Secretary.
The Boards of ISIS and FPLP and other FSA-regulated subsidiaries also meet separately and regularly Committees of the Board to monitor and direct the operations of those businesses.
Membership: All committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements of the Combined Code are chaired by Membership: The current membership of the Board and the and have a majority of, or exclusively comprise, independent significant commitments of the directors are stated on pages directors.
The independent directors are those whose names 18 and 19, which record the names of the Chairman, the are marked with an asterisk below.
Group Chief Executive and the Deputy Chairman, who is also the Senior Independent Director.
The names of the chairman The current composition of all committees of directors, the and members of the Audit and Compliance, Nomination and first named being the chairman, is: Remuneration Committees are stated opposite.
Martin Jackson retired on 30 September 2003 and was succeeded Audit and Compliance as Group Finance Director by Philip Moore on 1 September.
Christopher Jemmett, Alison Carnwath, Ray King, Ray King was appointed as an independent, non-executive Lord MacGregor, Roger Morton : director with effect from 6 January 2004.
Nomination During 2003 the Board met on 13 occasions, including an off-site strategy meeting.
Alison Carnwath, who joined the Lord MacGregor, Lady Judge, David Newbigging: Board in December 2002, had a number of pre-existing Remuneration commitments that pre-dated her appointment to the Board and prevented her attending 3 meetings in 2003.
Otherwise, Lady Judge, Alison Carnwath, Christopher Jemmett : all directors attended all meetings.
Investment Balance: The Board considers all six non-executive directors David Newbigging, Graham Aslet, Howard Carter, which expression excludes the Chairman to be independent Christopher Jemmett, Lady Judge, Philip Moore, in character and judgement and is not aware of any Keith Satchell, Brian Sweetland.
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of any of them.
The Nomination Committee: The Committee makes Board makes this assertion having considered and taken full recommendations to the Board on all new Board account of the fact that Lady Judge was first elected to the appointments.
There is a formal and transparent procedure to Board of Friends Provident Life Ofce in May 1994 and the ensure that appointments are appropriate to the needs of the Board of the Company in June 2001.
The Board is entirely Group and the balance of the Board.
For new directors, an satisfied that Lady Judge is independent in character and established induction process is in place to ensure that, judgement, that there are no relationships or circumstances following their appointment, they are given a rm grounding that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, her in the management, business and regulation of the Group judgement.
Further, she has the broad experience, credibility and the way in which it operates within the life and pensions and commitment required to be an effective independent and asset management sectors to provide them with a director and makes important contributions to governance thorough appreciation of the Groups business, its corporate and strategic issues that would be difficult to replace.
It is values and the standard of conduct expected of directors.
these qualities that made her the successful appointee as The current membership of the Committee is stated above.
Deputy Chairman of the new Financial Reporting Council.
Lady Judge replaced Keith Satchell as a member on 18 The non-executive directors experience covers a broad December 2003 so that, for the entirety of 2004, the spectrum and, coupled with the focus and experience of the Company could be in compliance with the new Combined Annual Report & Accounts 2003 31 Corporate Governance Report continued Code.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which the consideration of which enabled the Committee to explain its purpose, delegated authority and duties have been conclude that it had fullled the duties and responsibilities published on the Companys website and can be obtained on detailed in its terms of reference in 2003. written request to the Company Secretary.
Reporting to shareholders By fullling its duties, the Committee will meet all the The Company places considerable importance on requirements of the new Combined Code in so far as they communications with shareholders and responds to them relate to the work of nomination committees.
It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings with major institutional shareholders, During the year, using external search consultants, the where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, Committee conducted a search for an independent director.
performance, management and governance are discussed.
Further, the Chairman writes annually to the twenty largest A successful conclusion was reached in late 2003 and, shareholders, emphasising his availability should they wish with the approval of the Financial Services Authority FSA, to meet with him.
Ray King joined the Board in January 2004.
That appointment completed the balance being sought around the board table During the year, the Chairman and the non-executive directors of skills, knowledge and experience.
The search process met with the Companys joint brokers, Cazenove and Merrill involved members of the Committee interviewing a number Lynch, following executive presentations to major shareholders.
of candidates and reporting thereon to the Board.
This helps the non-executive directors to maintain an up-todate understanding of the views of major shareholders During the year, the Committee met formally on two about their company.
Further, the Chairman and the Senior occasions none of the many interviews above was regarded Independent Director are available to meet major shareholders.
as a formal meeting of the Committee and, through its agenda, effectively dealt with the duties delegated to it by At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with its terms of reference referred to above.
Every member the provisions of the new Combined Code relating to the attended each meeting of the Committee.
disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and During the summer of 2003, the Committee revised the the attendance of directors, particularly committee chairmen.
standard letter of appointment for use as a non-executive The timing of the despatch of the formal notice of the Annual directors contract for services to ensure that it would meet General Meeting also complies with the new Combined Code.
the requirements of the new Combined Code.
Statement of directors responsibilities The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Company law requires the directors to prepare financial directors can be inspected during normal business hours statements for each financial year that give a true and fair at the Companys registered ofce by contacting the view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group Company Secretary.
and of the profit or loss for that financial year.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Audit and Compliance Committee: The current members of the Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive select the most appropriate accounting policies and apply directors, are recorded on page 31.
Alison Carnwath and Ray them consistently: King, both chartered accountants, became members of the Committee on 1 May 2003 and 6 January 2004, respectively.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the and prudent: Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should continue throughout 2004.
The state whether applicable accounting standards have been Committee provides the principal medium through which the followed with any material departures being disclosed and Board receives independent assurance on the Groups financial explained in the financial statements: and reporting process, internal controls and adherence to policies and procedures.
It is through this medium that the Board seeks prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis assurance on Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE matters.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Committee meetings are normally attended by the external the Group will continue in business.
auditors, the Group CEO, who is also responsible for internal The directors confirm that they have complied with audit in the life and pensions business, the ISIS chief executive these requirements.
and or finance director, the Group finance director, the heads of finance, actuarial services and compliance and internal audit The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and the director responsible for compliance, risk management, records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time governance, health and safety and corporate social responsibility.
the financial position of the Company and the Group and During 2003 the Committee met formally 5 times and, with enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply the exception of Alison Carnwath, who could not attend one with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for meeting for the reason stated on page 31, all members were safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and present at every meeting they were eligible to attend.
for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection The work of the Committee is best explained by reference of fraud and other irregularities.
to its terms of reference, which explain its role and In addition to being included with the Annual Report, responsibilities, effectively detail the work of the Committee, the financial statements are published on the Companys are published on the Companys website and can also be obtained on written request to the Secretary.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance its role and responsibilities, the Committee will meet all the and integrity of the website and compliance with legislation requirements of the new Combined Code in so far as they in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination relate to the work of audit committees.
During 2003, the of financial statements which may differ from legislation in Committee developed its own self-assessment questionnaire, other jurisdictions.
32 Friends Provident Corporate Governance Report continued Statement of compliance with provisions of the compliance and risk management.
This is primarily achieved Combined Code by the Companys Audit and Compliance Committee periodically receiving and reviewing reports from the The Directors consider that, except for the reason stated in compliance and internal audit functions within both core paragraph 34 of the Directors Report on Remuneration page businesses.
On an annual basis, the Companys Audit and 42, the Company has throughout the year ended 31December Compliance Committee meets specically to review annual 2003 and up to the date hereof applied the principles and assessments from the compliance, internal audit and risk complied with the provisions of the Combined Code that apply management functions before recommending to the Board to the Companys financial year.
Further, in respect of the the adoption of the Internal Controls statement.
period since 1 January 2004, when the above exception does not apply, the Company has applied the principles and Key elements of the Groups systems of internal controls met the requirements of the new Combined Code published are as follows: by The Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
Control environment Internal controls: compliance position The Group is committed to the highest standards of business The Board of the Company is ultimately responsible for conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing its operations.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business the required standards of business conduct.
objectives as no business can be successful without taking some risk.
They can thus provide reasonable and not absolute The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business In accordance with guidance published in September 1999 by operations in order to achieve Group objectives.
The structure the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales is designed to provide clear responsibilities and control for Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined key areas of the Groups business.
Operational responsibility Code the Turnbull Guidance the Board confirms that rests with the Group CEO and is devolved through an there has been in place for the year under review, and up executive structure with clearly delegated and appropriate to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, an levels of authority.
Members of Group management are, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the therefore, accountable for the operation of the systems of significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly internal controls within the Groups two core businesses.
reviewed by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance and the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Socially As statements covering the system of internal controls within Responsible Investment, which focus on SEE risks.
ISIS and its subsidiaries can be found in ISISs annual report and accounts, the remainder of this statement focuses on The framework for the management of risk has been revised the system of internal controls within the Groups core life and the new framework took effect on 1 October 2003, the and pensions business.
previous structure having operated effectively until that time.
The Risk and Controls Liaison Committee met for the last Risk identication time, as part of the previous framework, on 16 September Members of executive management are responsible for 2003.
Formal committees, chaired by the Group Risk officer, identifying and evaluating the key risks facing their areas have been established to oversee risk management.
These risks are assessed at least quarterly Board retains its responsibility for the system of internal and may be associated with a variety of internal or external control.
The Group Risk Committee, which comprises the factors including regulatory requirements, control breakdowns, executive directors of the Company, recommends to the disruption in information systems, competition and natural Board the Groups overall risk management framework and catastrophe.
The Group Risk officer reports to the Board its policies for managing risk.
The FPLP Risk Committee, quarterly on the results of the review of key risks carried out made up of the executive and non-executive directors of by executive management.
Internal audit reports to the Audit FPLP excluding the Group CEO, implements the Group and Compliance Committee half yearly on the effectiveness policies within the life and pensions core business and the of the controls that exist to manage the key risks.
FPLP Operational Risk Committee has the management of operational risk as its focus.
Similarly, within ISIS, the ISIS The significant economic, business, legal and SEE risks Risk Committee implements the Group policies within the facing the business have been evaluated and managed by asset management business and the ISIS Operational Risk this process.
Examples of these could include failure to Committee focuses on operational risk.
The FPLP Operational manage capital adequacy, failure to adhere to regulations Risk Committee also considers issues that span the interface of the FSA, mis-selling, loss of key staff, failure to treat between the Groups two core businesses and includes customers fairly, failure to maintain adequate controls against members from ISIS for this purpose.
This new framework for money laundering, the inappropriate handling of customer the management of risk will continue to develop during 2004. complaints, loss of support among Independent Financial Advisers, poor investment markets and a range of significant The appropriate risk committee will bring to the attention of risks that could occur due to the businesss failure to manage the Executive Committee of the Company, which comprise its direct and indirect environmental impacts.
executive directors of the Company, the Management Committee of ISIS, which comprise executive directors The Board has reviewed and updated the process for of ISIS, the Audit and Compliance Committees of both the identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and ISIS or other parties, as necessary or business and the policies and procedures by which these appropriate, details of known, material control weaknesses risks are managed.
or significant risks and agreed actions to eliminate those weaknesses or mitigate the risks.
Information and communication The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Members of executive management participate in an annual systems of internal controls during the year.
This review strategic review that considers overall business direction and covered all controls, including financial, operational, its financial implications.
Individual business units prepare Annual Report & Accounts 2003 33 Corporate Governance Report continued annual budgets and business plans that provide a basis in a manner that affords full value for money.
The contractor must not be in a position of conict in respect of the work in against which actual results can be benchmarked.
Assets, question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to liabilities, investments and other relevant criteria are also carry out the work in the best interests of the Company and monitored.
Progress against plans is actively monitored and the Group.
In particular, however, auditors of the Company supported by regular forecasts, which, together with actual are not permitted to: results, are consolidated and presented to the Board for discussion on a regular basis.
perform work that involves the valuation of an asset or liability incorporated into any of the Companys Through these mechanisms, the businesss performance financial statements: is continually monitored, risks are identied in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control act as secondees to positions of inuence with the Group: procedures re-evaluated and, where appropriate, corrective actions agreed and implemented.
design and implement systems that have financial implications: Risk management policy provide internal audit services where an opinion has to be The mission of the Groups risk management policy is given on managements assessment of accounting controls and financial systems: To manage responsibly and proactively the significant business, including SEE risks that have the potential to provide litigation support services: impact the Groups current business operations, while dening and accepting an appropriate level of risk that will provide corporate finance services: and allow the Groups two core businesses to ourish.
advise on senior executives remuneration.
The Company aims to manage risk in a manner that will provide sustainable value by focusing on those matters that Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform audit-related may impact or thwart the achievement of the Groups and non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit business objectives.
and Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
In The Company believes that effective risk management should particular, the Audit and Compliance Committee will give be part of the Groups behavioural culture, a state of mind careful consideration before appointing the auditors to perform whereby all employees consider their day-to-day work work in the areas of outsourcing and partnering, advice on tax processes and identify new or existing activities that will structuring and acquisition due diligence.
increase the likelihood of achieving the many long-term business objectives at an acceptable level of risk.
The process The Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee is of strategic and business planning is subject to the same authorised to approve the use of auditors for audit-related principles as day-to-day processes and adopts the concept and non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed of risk management as part of its overall approach.
50,000 and the aggregate value of audit-related and nonaudit work awarded to auditors does not exceed the audit fee Control procedures for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit and Compliance Committee is required.
The business has implemented accounting policies, financial reporting processes and internal control procedures designed The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews annually the to safeguard policyholders investments and the Groups performance, independence, competence and cost of assets.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation auditors.
If the Committee considers it appropriate, the of duties and reviews by management.
A process of selfprovision of audit services may be formally market-tested assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established through a tender process involving those audit rms judged within the business and provides for a documented and competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency auditable trail of responsibility and accountability.
of this market-testing will depend on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
Such an exercise was carried Monitoring and corrective action out during 2003 4 and a recommendation to appoint KPMG Group Risk monitors and reports the outcome of the selfAudit Plc as the Companys auditors was accepted by the assessment process to successive layers of management Board in January 2004 see page 30 above.
and ultimately to the Board.
Future developments The controls identied as part of the self-assessment process The Board believes that the controls in place during 2003 are reviewed by the internal audit function for accuracy, have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Planned corrective actions Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of are independently monitored for timely completion and governance and business conduct and will ensure that those reviewed by the Audit and Compliance Committee.
controls continue to develop in line with the requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
Any necessary changes will be Independence of auditors made so as to continue to ensure that the Groups customers The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the are treated fairly and to continue to protect the interests of independence, integrity, competence and professionalism the Companys shareholders.
of the Groups auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of their work was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of independence and balancing that with the best interests of the Company, the Board has also considered the policy for awarding audit-related and or non-audit work to the Groups auditors.
For the Board B. W. Sweetland The Company does not impose an automatic ban on any Director and Company Secretary Group companys auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The 2 March 2004 Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work carried out 34 Friends Provident
