Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Sherwood will retire at the conclusion of the their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, 1.
The Combined Code on Corporate Companys Annual General Meeting on legal, financial and other developments: Governance 27 April 2004 the 2004 AGM and will not to enable them to fulfil effectively their role In the Companys Annual Report and seek re-election by shareholders.
Kathleen on the Board and committees of the Board.
Accounts 2002 we welcomed the review of Kate Nealon and David Shearer have been best practice in the boardroom conducted Particulars of Directors remuneration and by Sir Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith and, appointed Directors of the Company with interests in shares of the Company are given in particular, the guiding principle of comply effect from 23 March 2004 and, in in the Report of the Board in relation to or explain that was stressed in Sir Derek accordance with the Companys Articles Remuneration Policy and Practice the Higgs report, and which is now enshrined of Association, will present themselves for Directors Remuneration Report on in the Preamble to the new Combined Code election by shareholders at the 2004 AGM.
pages 55 to 72. on Corporate Governance the new Code.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are 3.
The Board This Corporate Governance Report explains separate and there is a clear, written division The Board meets regularly to determine the key features of the Companys governance of responsibilities between those roles.
There strategic direction of the Group and to review structure, how it applies the principles in the is also a Non-executive Deputy Chairman operating, financial and risk performance.
new Code, and the extent to which the Sir Ron Garrick whose role is also separately There is a formal schedule of matters reserved Company has complied with the provisions defined.
In addition to the Chairman and prior to the Board which includes approval of the or requirements of the new Code.
to the retirement of Gordon McQueen, the Groups annual Business Plan, that defines the Each of the provisions set out in the new Code Board comprised seven Executive Directors operating and strategic objectives of the has been reviewed.
Where necessary, steps and nine Non-executive Directors.
All of the Group and the risk framework within which have been taken to ensure that the Company Non-executive Directors are considered to be the Group will operate: Group policies and is in compliance with all of those provisions independent, including Sir Bob Reid, who standards on financial and non-financial risks: as at the date of this Report, save that: joined the Board of Bank of Scotland in 1987. significant transactions, above defined limits, The Board is satisfied that Sir Bob remains fully or entering into significant new business an explanation is provided below independent in character and judgement, and activities: and the scope of delegations to in respect of the Boards view of the his extensive business experience and Board Committees, subsidiary boards and continuing independence of Sir Bob Reid, expertise is a valuable addition to the Boards executive management of the Group.
The who first joined the Board of Bank of mix of skills.
During 2003, Sir Bobs extensive executive management of the Group is Scotland in 1987. knowledge and experience of the Australian responsible to the Board for developing the Company has a comprehensive market provided significant challenge and strategy: the profitability and overall value in relation to the acquisition of the programme of meetings and dialogue with performance of the Group: and for managing minority interest in BankWest.
As referred to institutional investors and ensures that the the Groups businesses in accordance with the above, Sir Bob will stand down from the Board views of investors expressed through this Group Business Plan, and policies and at the 2004 AGM, and will not seek re-election dialogue, and through the Annual Audit of standards approved by the Board.
Following Sir Bobs retirement, Investor Opinion referred to in more detail the full list of matters reserved to the Board Sir Ron Garrick, the Companys Non-executive on page 53 are communicated to the can be found on the Companys website.
Deputy Chairman, will undertake the role of Board as a whole, so that all directors can The Board has overall responsibility for the Senior Independent Director.
develop a balanced understanding of the Groups system of internal control and issues and concerns of major shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of annually reviews its effectiveness, including a Feedback from a number of shareholders Association, which provide for all Directors to review of financial, operational, compliance also suggests that the current arrangements stand for re-election at intervals of no more and risk management controls.
The for communication between the Company than three years, James Crosby, Phil Hodkinson implementation and maintenance of the risk and its shareholders are considered to be and Brian Ivory will retire by rotation, and will management and internal control systems are satisfactory and effective, and that regular each seek re-election by shareholders, at the the responsibility of the Executive Directors or routine meetings between shareholders 2004 AGM.
The Chairman is pleased to and other senior management.
The system is and the Senior Independent Director are confirm that, following formal performance designed to manage the risk of failure to not considered necessary.
evaluation, Brian Ivorys performance achieve business objectives, and provide continues to be effective, and he continues to Accordingly the Senior Independent Director reasonable assurance against material demonstrate commitment to the role of Nondid not attend meetings with major misstatement or loss.
executive Director including in respect of his shareholders in 2003, as suggested by new The Group Management Board is the senior Chairmanship of the Remuneration Code Provision D. 1.1.
Nevertheless the Senior executive team of the Group and has Committee, and his membership of other Independent Director is always available to mechanisms for monitoring the risk management boards and committees.
meet shareholders on request and to ensure practices approved and adopted by individual that the Board is aware of shareholder On appointment to the Board, Directors are business areas.
Information about these concerns not resolved through the existing provided with a full, formal and tailored mechanisms and the Groups compliance with mechanisms for investor communication.
programme of induction, to familiarise them Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on with the Groups businesses: the risks and The Company has complied with all the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance strategic challenges they face: and the provisions of the original Combined Code is set out in the Financial Review and Risk economic, competition, legal and regulatory throughout 2003.
Management Report on pages 35 to 44. environments in which they operate.
Directors programme of strategic and other reviews, In addition to two formal meetings of Brief biographical details of current Directors together with other training provided during the Board held to authorise release of the are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Gordon the year, ensures that Directors continually Companys preliminary and interim results, McQueen retired as a Director on following consideration by the Audit update their skills: their knowledge and 31 December 2003.
Sir Bob Reid and Louis Committee and the full Board, which are familiarity with the Groups businesses: and 52 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Report discounted for this purpose, there were ten review the activities, resources, executive Directors of the Company, and Board meetings during 2003 at which all organisational structure and operational ensures that list is updated and refreshed.
In Directors were present with the exception of effectiveness of the internal audit function: relation to the appointment of David Shearer Charles Dunstone apologies given for three and Kate Nealon, two firms of external search review the effectiveness of the Groups meetings, John Maclean one, Coline consultants were used: a short list was system of internal control including McConville one, Gordon McQueen one created and followed by a series of interviews financial, operational, compliance and risk and Louis Sherwood one.
with the Chairman and other members of the management, as well as the appropriateness Committee, including Dennis Stevenson and During the year the Chairman led the formal of whistleblowing procedures: James Crosby, prior to recommendations evaluation of the Board and its principal make recommendations on the being submitted to the Board.
Committees, and of the performance and appointment and remuneration of the commitment of each individual Director, 5.
Relations with Shareholders external auditors and to monitor the through a process that included detailed The Company co-ordinates its performance of the auditors: and questionnaires, in-depth one-to-one communications with shareholders, through discussions with the Chairman, and debate at review the non-audit services provided to two channels.
The Investor Relations team the Board.
Sir Bob Reid, as Senior the Group by the external auditors and manages communications with institutional Independent Director, led the Non-executive monitor the independence of the auditors.
shareholders through a combination of Directors in evaluating the performance of briefings to analysts and institutional Both the Board and the external auditors the Chairman taking into account the views shareholders, both at the interim and year have safeguards in place to prevent the of Executive Directors, including at a meeting end results, site visits and individual compromise of the auditors independence of Non-executive Directors held during the discussions with Board Members and key and objectivity.
Each year the Audit year where the Chairman was not present.
members of the management team.
There is Committee establishes a limit on the fees regular dialogue to help to ensure that the 4.
Committees of the Board that can be paid to the external auditors in Companys strategy is understood and that respect of advisory and consultancy work.
The terms of reference of the principal any issues are addressed in a constructive The external auditors also report regularly to Committees of the Board Audit, way.
The Shareholder Services team oversees the Committee on the actions that they have Remuneration and Nomination are available communication with private shareholders.
taken to comply with professional and on the Companys website.
Those terms regulatory requirements and current best There is also an Annual Audit of Investor of reference are reviewed at least annually.
practice in order to maintain their Opinion, undertaken on behalf of the Board, The work carried out by the Audit and independence.
This includes the rotation of which takes the form of structured interviews Nomination Committees in discharging their key members of the audit team.
with individual investors through an responsibilities is summarised below.
The 2003 work carried out by the Remuneration The Committee reviews the auditors report gathered opinion on strategy, independence annually.
During 2003, the Committee is described within the Directors operational performance, corporate Committee commissioned a report into the Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 72. governance and management capability from effectiveness and independence of the investors in the UK, Europe and North Audit Committee external auditors.
The results of this review America.
The non-attributable opinions give Anthony Hobson Chairman were satisfactory.
An audit tender process will the Board direct access to investor feedback.
John Maclean be undertaken at least every five years, The Annual Audit complements the monthly Sir Bob Reid appointed 10 June 2003 commencing in 2005. market view on investor sentiment and Louis Sherwood Nomination Committee opinion, which is a standard part of the This Committee consists entirely of Nonmonthly Board management information.
Sir Ronald Garrick Chairman executive Directors, and is chaired by Dennis Stevenson Each year shareholders receive the Annual Anthony Hobson who has significant recent James Crosby Review and Summary Financial Statement or, and relevant financial experience.
It is Brian Ivory at the choice of the shareholder, the Annual supported by Risk Control Committees for Sir Bob Reid Report and Accounts.
The Company takes the each division, comprising Non-executive and Philip Yea appointed 5 April 2003 Annual General Meeting around the UK Executive Directors.
The Terms of Reference Coline McConville appointed 5 April 2003 allowing more shareholders the opportunity of the Committee include all matters to attend, hear about and question the The Committee has met on three occasions indicated by the original and the new Groups performance and the Directors during the past twelve months with all Combined Code.
stewardship in an open manner.
The Committee leads the During 2003 the Committee met seven times of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination process for making appointments to the with all members present with the exception Committees attend the meeting along with Board: ensures that there is a formal, rigorous of John Maclean apologies for one meeting.
other Directors and are available to answer and transparent procedure for the It meets with Executive Directors and shareholders questions on the activities of appointment of new directors to the Board: management, as well as privately with both their own Committees.
reviews the composition of the Board the external and internal auditors, to: through a full evaluation of the skills, During the year shareholders can receive upknowledge and experience of directors: and review and advise the Board on the Groups to-date information through the Companys ensures plans are in place for orderly interim and annual financial statements, its website, www.
This provides accounting policies and on the control of succession for appointments to the Board, share price information, financial results, its financial and business risks: review the and to other senior executive management analyst presentations and answers to nature and scope of the work to be positions.
With assistance from external frequently asked questions.
A telephone performed by the external and internal search and recruitment consultants, the helpline is available on 0870 702 0102 auditors, the results of this audit work and Committee maintains a standing list of providing a contact point for shareholders on of the response of management: potential candidates for appointment as Nonissues such as dividends and announcements.
HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 53
