British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 17 Corporate governance statement Corporate governance, usually dened as the system by Directors which companies are directed and controlled from within, The Board has in recent years been the subject of increasing focus and The first Main Principle requires each company to have external demands for public companies to conform with sets an effective board which is collectively responsible for its of criteria which are not always consistent.
Supporting Principles describe the boards role to provide entrepreneurial leadership within a framework Whilst acknowledging those external pressures, British American of controls that allow risk to be assessed and managed.
Tobacco has long believed that the most potent form of They require the board to set strategic aims and the corporate governance comes from within.
We see external companys values, ensuring that obligations to shareholders codes as overlays to the standards that we set ourselves.
Non-executive directors have a particular role in Those standards were codified many years ago in our own developing strategy, scrutinising management performance Standards of Business Conduct, most recently revised in 2003, and ensuring the integrity of financial information and and every Group company and every employee worldwide systems of risk management.
is expected to live up to them.
Last year, we also published our Statement of Business Principles, which is designed to help Your Company currently has a Board of 12 Directors: meet the expectations, sometimes conicting, placed on us four are Executive Martin Broughton, Chairman, Paul by our various stakeholders.
Both documents, together with Adams, Chief Executive, Antonio Monteiro fide Castro, Chief the terms of reference of the four Board Committees referred Operating officer and Paul Rayner, Finance Director and to below, are available through the expanded corporate eight Non-Executive.
Their names and brief biographies governance section of our website, bat.
com appear on page 28 of the Annual Review.
As Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Kenneth Clarke is the Senior Independent The principal governance rules applying to UK companies Director called for in the Code.
Johann Rupert retired from listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the the Board on 15 April 2003.
Combined Code, which was introduced in 1998 as part of the Exchanges Listing Rules.
During 2003, proposals As announced in November last year, Martin Broughton will for change were made in the Higgs Review, with additional retire from the Board on 30 June 2004 and Jan du Plessis will guidance on audit committees from the Financial Reporting become Chairman on 1 July 2004, by which time he will Council the Smith Report.
A number of features of the have resigned from his position with Compagnie Financire Review were considered unacceptable by many interested Richemont SA, a major shareholder in British American parties and, following a further consultation process in Tobacco.
Harald Einsmann will retire after the Annual General which we took an active part, the Review was modied and Meeting on 21 April, having reached the age of 70. reissued as the Code on Corporate Governance Code.
This is intended to take effect for accounting periods beginning on Among the key matters on which the Board alone may or after 1 November 2003. make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its annual budget, dividends and major corporate activities such Our formal obligation for 2003 is to report on our compliance as the proposal to combine the US businesses of Brown with the Combined Code and we do so at the end of this & Williamson Tobacco Corporation with R. J. Reynolds Inc. statement.
However, as the Code builds on the Combined The Board is scheduled to hold six meetings in 2004 and ad Codes approach, we believe that it is more appropriate to hoc meetings may be convened to deal with urgent matters.
report to shareholders as though the Code were already in place.
The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the Board The Code takes a similar approach to that of the Combined to act as a single team by obtaining consensus at Board Code, requiring listed companies to report how its Main meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, decisions will Principles and new Supporting Principles have been applied, be taken by majority.
Agenda for Board meetings are set giving enough detail to enable shareholders to evaluate the by the Chairman in consultation with the Deputy Chairman, report, and to state whether the Code provisions have been the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
In addition complied with, giving an explanation for any points of nonto the Company Secretary, the General Counsel to the compliance.
References in this statement to Principles and Company attends Board meetings.
Provisions, unless otherwise expressly stated, are to those of the Code.
Responsibility for implementing the Groups strategy is delegated to the Management Board, which is scheduled The headings in this statement, other than the final two, to meet eight times in 2004.
The Management Board is are taken from Section 1 of the Code: this applies to listed chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members are companies and consists of 14 Main Principles, 21 Supporting the Finance Director, the Chief Operating officer and 11 Principles and 48 Provisions.
Section 2 applies to institutional senior Group executives, whose names appear on page 29 shareholders.
The Board has also established four 18 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement continued Board Committees, each with its own clear terms of reference, Appointments to the Board and has delegated responsibility for some aspects of Code The Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and matters to them.
The role of these Committees is described transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, in more detail below.
which should be made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Board has established the Nominations Committee for To assist the Board in its deliberations, the Management this purpose.
It is chaired by Martin Broughton, its other Board is invited to attend meetings of the Board from time members being all the Non-Executive Directors.
Paul Adams to time, in particular when the Groups future strategy and stood down from this Committee in October 2003. annual budgets are under discussion.
The Nominations Committee considers candidates for Chairman and Chief Executive appointment to the Board and for promotion to the A further Main Principle requires a clear division of Management Board.
Taking into account the expectation responsibilities between the running of the board and that a Non-Executive Director will not normally be invited executive responsibility for running the business, such to stand for reappointment having served nine years on the that no one person has unfettered powers of decision.
Board, the Committee at least annually reviews forthcoming retirements and the need to identify candidates to ll vacancies The Board has met this requirement by establishing clearly for Non-Executive positions on the Board.
This process includes dened roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive, as an evaluation of the skills and experience to be looked for it had done previously for the Chairman and the Managing in those candidates to ensure continuing Board balance.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Once agreed No new appointment to the Board has been made since by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives responsibility the Code was issued.
However, the appointments of both to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
Ana Maria Llopis, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 2003, and of Jan du Plessis as Chairman Board balance and independence were made in accordance with Code Principles.
There The Code requires a balance of executive and non-executive was a selection process that involved benchmarking and directors such that no individual or small group of individuals interviewing a number of candidates, using the services can dominate the boards decision taking.
The number and of an executive search rm specialising in board level quality of the Non-Executive Directors on the Board, with recruitment.
As the Code stipulates that a chairman should their combination of diverse backgrounds and expertise, not chair meetings when it is dealing with his successor, ensures that this Principle is met.
the Senior Independent Director, Kenneth Clarke, chaired all meetings of the Nominations Committee during the We consider that six of the eight Non-Executive Directors are process to select the new Chairman.
independent: under a new Provision, Jan du Plessis and Thys Visser are presumed not to be because of the shareholdings The Committee has also made recommendations to the Board they represent.
Accordingly, in October 2003 they stood as to the Directors who are being put forward for reappointment down from the Audit and Remuneration Committees, whose at the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2004. members should now all be independent Non-Executive Directors, in order that the Company could be in compliance Information and professional development with that aspect of the Code for the accounting year beginning Directors receive induction on joining the Board and are on 1 January 2004.
The Board continues, however, to enabled to update their skills and knowledge, for example consider that both Directors were independent under the by briengs on the Companys business and by visits to Combined Code for the purposes of their membership of Company production sites.
They are also encouraged to the Remuneration Committee up to October 2003. attend meetings of the Groups regional audit committees.
The Board and its Committees receive high quality, Although Jan du Plessis will have severed his connections up-to-date information for review in good time ahead with Compagnie Financire Richemont SA before becoming of each meeting and the Company Secretary, under the Chairman on 1 July 2004, he will not on appointment be direction of the Chairman, ensures good information independent as called for by another Provision.
The Board ows within the Board and its Committees and between nevertheless considers that he is the right choice, given his the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
deep knowledge and understanding of the tobacco industry, He is also responsible for advising the Board through his true independence of mind in contributing to the Board the Chairman on all governance matters.
and his outstanding strategic and financial skills.
Jan du Plessis will devote up to half his time with the Company and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the it is expected that he will take on other non-executive Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to directorships and pursue outside interests.
take independent professional advice should this be required.
British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 19 Performance evaluation The following table shows the number of scheduled Board The Board conducts a critical evaluation of its activities and Committee meetings held in 2003 and the number on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary has private attended by their respective members.
interviews with all Directors individually both Executive Scheduled meetings held in 2003 and Non-Executive to ascertain their views on the Boards Board  CSR performance and then compiles a report for the Deputy Chairman.
The report is presented first to the Non-Executive Number held 6 4 4 4 2 Directors and then to the entire Board.
In addition, the Number attended Company Secretary collates the views of each Director M F Broughton 6 4 K H Clarke 6 4 4 4 2 on the individual performance of the other Directors and P N Adams 6 3 presents these to the Chairman, who holds discussions P A Rayner 6 with each Director regarding his or her effectiveness.
A Monteiro fide Castro 6 The Chairman also discusses the effectiveness of Directors H Einsmann 6 4 3 4 1 immediately before they make themselves available for A M Llopis 433 2 W A Owens 6 4 4 2 reappointment.
The Remuneration Committee has evaluated R L Pennant-Rea 6 4 4 4 2 the effectiveness of the Chairman and the Managing Director.
2 J P du Plessis 6343 2 M H Visser 6 4 3 2 The process in 2003 confirmed that all Directors continued K S Wong 5 4 4 4 to contribute effectively and with proper commitment, Indicates not a member of that Committee.
including of time, to their roles.
1 Ana Maria Llopis joined the Board on 24 February 2003.
2 Jan du Plessis and Thys Visser stood down from the Remuneration Committee, The Notice for this years Annual General Meeting confirms and Jan du Plessis from the Audit Committee, on 24 October 2003. that the performance of the Directors being proposed for All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2003. reappointment continues to be effective and that they Every Director withdrew from any meeting at which his or her own position was continue to show commitment to their role.
Remuneration A Provision requires that the performance and commitment Details of the Directors remuneration required to be of any director being proposed for reappointment for a third disclosed under the Combined Code, the Code and the term of three years should be subject to a particularly rigorous Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are set review.
This was done in the case of K S Wong, who will be out in the Remuneration Report on page 6. proposed for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2004.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting Re-election The Board is required to present a balanced and In accordance with the Code, each new Non-Executive understandable assessment of the Companys position and Director is appointed for a specified term, being an prospects, not only in the Directors Report and Accounts but initial period to the next Annual General Meeting after also in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, appointment and, subject to reappointment at that in interim reports, in reports to regulators and in price-sensitive meeting, for a further period ending not later than announcements.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this the Annual General Meeting held three years thereafter.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for Subsequent reappointment will be subject to endorsement the financial statements is set out on page 22. by the Board and the approval of shareholders.
The going concern statement required by the Code is set The requirement to submit Directors for reappointment at out on page 5 of the Directors Report.
regular intervals is met by applying the Companys articles of association.
These require that at each Annual General Internal control Meeting: 1 not less than one-third of the Directors who The Code requires the Company to maintain a sound are subject to retirement by rotation must retire, and system of internal control to safeguard shareholders 2 any Director has to retire who was not appointed at investment and the Companys assets.
The Board must either of the two previous Annual General Meetings and review the effectiveness of the system at least annually, who has served as a Director for more than two years covering all material controls, including financial, operational since appointment or last reappointment.
and compliance controls and risk management systems, and report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Turnbull There is a general assumption on the part of the Board Report, adopted by the UK Listing Authority, provides that Non-Executive Directors will not normally be invited guidance for compliance with that part of the Code.
to stand for reappointment after serving nine years.
20 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement continued The Group statement on internal control prepared in The Audit Committee is chaired by Rupert Pennant-Rea and accordance with the Turnbull guidance is as follows: comprises four other independent Non-Executive Directors Kenneth Clarke, Ana Maria Llopis, Harald Einsmann and The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal Wong Kok Siew.
Rupert Pennant-Rea has the recent and control for the Company and its subsidiaries and for relevant financial experience called for by a Provision.
reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
The system is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement The Committee normally meets four times a year, including of the Companys business objectives rather than to eliminate immediately before the Companys full year results are these risks.
The internal control system can therefore provide published.
It monitors the integrity of the Companys only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material financial statements including the full and half year results misstatement or loss.
and annually reviews the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and risk management.
The Company has used audit committees since 1977 at both corporate and end market levels as the main It also makes recommendations to the Board on vehicle to support the Board in monitoring risk and the appointment, for approval by shareholders, of control.
In 1996, a broader framework was developed the Companys external auditors and approves their to create a continuing process for identifying, evaluating remuneration and terms of engagement.
It meets regularly and managing the significant risks faced by the Company with management and with the internal and external and its subsidiaries.
This process is regularly reviewed by auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls the Board, which includes on its agenda matters relating and business risk management.
The Audit Committee also to significant risks that may impede meeting business receives reports from the Groups regional audit committees, objectives, and has been in place throughout the year which monitor the effectiveness of business risks and internal under review and up to the date of this statement.
The controls across the Group geographically and by business.
process of reviewing internal control and business risks is supported by a cascade of audit committees.
In particular  LLP also perform non-audit services the regional audit committees which are chaired by for the Group over and above the external audit.
The Audit an Executive Director focus on risks and the control Committee has established a policy on the appointment of environment within each region and are in turn supported the auditors for such purposes and keeps this issue under by end market or area audit committees.
It remains confident that the objectivity and audit committees reviews include consideration of the independence of the auditors are not in any way impaired effectiveness of the ongoing process for identifying, by reason of this further work.
Moreover, the Committee is evaluating and managing the risks of the business and satisfied that such work is best handled by them either because the assessments of internal control and business risks of their knowledge of the Group or because they have been completed by operating companies.
The relevant external awarded it through a competitive tendering process.
and internal auditors attend meetings of all audit committees and have discrete private audiences at all of these levels at A new Provision requires the Committee to review the least once each year.
In addition, regional and end market Companys arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, management, along with internal audit, supports the Board raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
and other matters so called whistleblowing procedures.
Details of these arrangements, which have been approved The Board, with advice from its Audit Committee, has by the Committee, are set out in the Companys Standards completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the of Business Conduct.
system of internal control in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Report for the period since 1 January 2003 Relations with shareholders and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Company is required to have a dialogue with shareholders, Audit Committee and auditors based on the mutual understanding of objectives, and it is The Companys obligation is to establish formal and the responsibility of the Board as a whole to ensure that a transparent arrangements for considering how they should satisfactory dialogue does take place.
apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the The Code recognises that primary contacts are likely to be external auditors,  LLP.
It meets by the Chief Executive and Finance Director but requires this obligation through the Audit Committee, whose the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, and other terms of reference, agreed by the Board, are available Directors as appropriate, to maintain contact with major on the website, bat.
com shareholders in order to understand their concerns.
British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2003 21 At least twice a year a report will be made to the Board on for Corporate Social Responsibility, which we believe could the number and types of meetings between the Company form a blueprint for a responsible tobacco company in the and institutional shareholders.
Both were developed with the help of internal Director will attend some of those meetings and will also and external stakeholders and respond to expectations of report on them.
Induction programmes for new Directors greater business transparency.
will include visits to institutional shareholders.
We have considered the Association of British Insurers Constructive use of the AGM disclosure guidelines on social responsibility, published in The annual general meeting AGM is the principal February 2003.
The guidelines request listed companies to opportunity for the Board to meet a wide range of investors report to shareholders and give assurance that the Company and for the Chairman to explain the Companys progress to is managing its risk on social, environmental and ethical its owners, the shareholders.
At the 2004 AGM on 21 April, matters.
We believe the Group is operating in accordance the Company will for the first time provide for the vote on with these guidelines through its CSR governance and social each resolution to be by poll, using an electronic voting system, reporting processes.
rather than by show of hands: this will allow shareholders to cast their total voting strength.
This decision goes beyond Our Business Principles Mutual benefit, Responsible the requirements of the Code and is evidence of the Boards Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct set desire to include all shareholders, even if they are unable to out our core beliefs and cover the key issues that we believe attend the meeting in person, as they can vote by proxy underpin CSR for a multinational business and, particularly, knowing that their vote will count.
The Board has provided the Statement of Business Principles to all our general managers as the Corporate Social Responsibility basis on which we expect our businesses to be run in terms A fourth Committee has been established by the Board.
of responsibility and our companies are encouraged to take The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee is not account of local stakeholders expectations in determining how a requirement of the Code but is evidence of the Companys they should best be reected in their local business practices.
commitment to social and environmental issues.
It is chaired by Kenneth Clarke, its other members being Ana Maria British American Tobacco p. l. c. was again selected for the Llopis, Bill Owens, Rupert Pennant-Rea and Thys Visser.
2004 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI World The Executive Directors attend meetings by invitation but and its European equivalent, DJSI STOXX.
Our subsidiary are not members.
British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad was also reselected for the 2004 DJSI World.
The Committees role is to help identify and assess, with management, those significant social, environmental and Compliance reputational risks that might impair the Companys strategic As noted at the beginning of this statement, the Companys objective to be recognised as a responsible company in a formal obligation in respect of 2003 is to report to shareholders controversial industry.
The Committee also evaluates the how it has applied the Principles of the Combined Code and adequacy of the Companys policies in this area and makes whether it has complied with its Provisions.
The Companys Social Report for 2003 is expected to be published on bat.
com in late June The Board considers that its report on how the Company this year.
complies with the Code provides the information necessary to enable shareholders to evaluate how the Principles of The principles of CSR continue to be strongly embedded in the Combined Code have been applied.
The Board further the Group.
We have strengthened the governance dimension considers that the Company has fully complied with the through local and regional CSR committees, now working in Provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year.
a uniform way overseen by the CSR Committee.
Stakeholder engagement is very active and our companies in 35 countries are now carrying out social reporting, with 22 Social Reports published in 2003.
All the Groups Social Reports continue to be measured, through rigorous independent review, against the AA1000 Standard and we intend that the latest AA1000 Assurance Standard will now be incrementally applied.
In July, within the Companys Social Report 2002 03, we published the Groups Statement of Business Principles and, based on it, the British American Tobacco p. l. c. Framework
