Corporate Governance A summary of the system of corporate governance adopted by the company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 January 2003, the company has been compliant with the Code Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Statement of compliance with the principles of the combined code The companys board of directors meets regularly to discuss the performance of the Board of Directors company and to discuss matters which it has reserved to itself for decision as well as any other matters that are referred to it.
It is their responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects and this is done through the chairmans statement, business and financial review and the financial statements.
Regular reports and presentations to the Board ensure that it is supplied with the quality information that it needs, in a timely manner.
The Board comprises five executive directors, an independent non-executive chairman and three further independent non-executive directors.
The company has never had a designated chief executive.
Each of the five executive directors has specic areas of responsibility and all collectively form the executive committee, with no one director being able to signicantly affect the running of the company without consulting his colleagues.
P J Stone has been identied as the senior independent director.
The non-executive directors are as follows: John Manser was appointed a non-executive director in January 2001 and non-executive chairman in May 2001.
Eric Licoys was appointed a non-executive director in January 1998.
James Nelson was appointed a non-executive director in May 2001.
Peter Stone was appointed a non-executive director in January 1998.
The Board has established a number of committees consisting of certain directors, including an Audit Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee whose membership and functions are dened below.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists solely of four 2002 four independent non-executive directors, Messrs P J Manser, E G Licoys, J J Nelson and P J Stone under the chairmanship of Mr Manser.
The executive directors are not members of the Audit Committee but are invited to attend along with the Financial Controller.
Deloitte & Touche, the companys auditors, are also invited to attend and have direct access to committee members.
The Audit Committee meets regularly to review the scope of the external audit, to receive reports from the companys auditors and to review the annual and interim accounts before they are presented to the Board, with particular emphasis on accounting policies and compliance.
The Audit Committee more generally acts as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and has input to the Boards review of the effectiveness of the companys internal control and risk management systems and procedures.
The companys relationship with the external auditors is monitored by the Audit Committee with particular emphasis on non-audit assignments which are subject to an appropriate approval process.
Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Committee consists of four 2002 four independent nonexecutive directors, Messrs P J Manser, E G Licoys, J J Nelson and P J Stone under the chairmanship of Mr Manser.
It recommends the terms and conditions of employment of the executive directors.
Levels of remuneration are considered sufficient, but not excessive, to attract and retain the directors needed to run the company successfully.
A significant proportion of directors remuneration is linked to corporate performance.
The Code recommends that executive directors have one year rolling contracts and the executive directors have agreed to reect this best practice and reduce the term of their contracts from twenty-four months down to twelve.
Further details regarding remuneration policy and payments made can be found in the report to shareholders on directors remuneration and in the notes to the accounts.
Appointments of executive and non-executive directors are made as necessary as a result of discussions by the committee and are subject to full Board approval.
One-third of the directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
Any director appointed during the year must offer himself for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of directors up for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are shown on page 42.
18 Intermediate Capital Group Relationships with shareholders The company is always willing to enter into dialogue with all shareholders, based on a mutual understanding of objectives and meetings are regularly held with major shareholders.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control The directors acknowledge their ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the group has in place a system of internal controls that is appropriate to the business environment in which it operates.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and believe that such a system of controls is in place to give reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors and irregularities are prevented or would be detected within a timely period.
The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identied significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the directors report and accounts.
"This process has been subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the guidelines contained in ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales."
The key elements of this process are: Strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the executive committee in the context of an agreed n strategic framework.
A strategy paper and three year plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the group and these are approved by the Board.
A detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the groups finance function.
Financial risks primarily loan losses and associated risks are considered on behalf of the Board by the n executive committee.
The minutes of the executive committee are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
These controls concentrate on the procedures for making and monitoring loans and investments and for the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised disposition.
Operational risks including compliance with the Financial Services Act are considered on behalf of the n Board by the executive committee.
The Board has established practices for reviewing the system of internal controls by way of reports it receives from the executive committee.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that because of the nature of the current internal control system and size of the company it cannot be justied at present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
The Board undertook a formal annual assessment of the risk management and control arrangements on 27 March 2003 in order to form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Going concern statement Based upon the review of the groups budgets and outline business plans for the next two years, the directors believe that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
