158 Annual Report 2003 directors responsibility and corporate governance Investec has long had an entrenched corporate culture, which emphasises above all the need to conduct the affairs of the group in accordance with the highest standards of corporate ethics.
Good corporate governance is shown in the groups values of integrity, responsibility and risk consciousness.
- Stephen Koseff, Chief Executive Officer Corporate governance environment and the year in review Investec is an international organisation and, as such, is required to comply with an extensive range of diverse legal, regulatory and governance requirements.
During the year under review, the increased spate of corporate failures both domestically and internationally continued to heighten the focus on corporate governance practices.
In this regard, a number of developments took place in the jurisdictions in which the group operates: The South African King II Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct King II became effective.
The South African Reserve Bank initiated an independent review by Advocate Myburgh of the governance practices of the five largest banks including Investec in South Africa the Myburgh Review.
In the UK, the Higgs Review on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and the Annual Report 2003 159 Smith Report Audit Committees combined Code guidance were released.
The UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 became effective.
The JSE Securities Exchange South Africa JSE and the London Stock Exchange LSE enhanced their listing requirements.
The Sarbanes Oxley Act in the USA was enacted in July 2002.
Investec implemented significant measures to formalise and enhance its corporate governance following the implementation of its Dual Listed Companies DLC structure, with listings on the JSE and LSE see pages 4 to 6.
In terms of the implementation of this structure, the group reviewed and assessed governance practices for conformance to leading practices.
Furthermore, because Investec has two primary listings, it is required to observe the extensive requirements applicable to public listed companies in the UK and South Africa.
The recommendations of the Myburgh Review of governance practices in the South African banking industry as they specifically apply to Investec were accepted and the group addressed and will continue to address the matters raised and recommendations made.
The review concluded that South African banks showed high standards of corporate governance.
Following the groups internal assessment process and in terms of the formal report of the Myburgh Review, the areas identified as requiring attention are outlined below.
Position of the Chairman The Myburgh Review concluded that the Chairman, Hugh Herman, was not an independent nonexecutive director.
The group does, however, consider Hugh Herman to be a non-executive director.
In order to address the matter, the board and the Remuneration Committee agreed on and implemented the following: The Chairmans remuneration package will comprise solely of an overall fee of 250 000, will be commensurate with services provided and overall level of responsibilities, and will not include incentive bonuses.
Time spent on Investec matters will be reduced, as will time spent at the Investec offices.
Hugh Herman will continue to have no executive responsibilities.
Size of Investec Bank Limited board The Myburgh Review considered the board of Investec Bank Limited to be oversized.
This matter was reviewed and the composition addressed with consideration of the skills, expertise and strategic focus of the bank.
The revised board is set out on page 212.
Director Affairs Committee The Banks Act Amendment Bill proposed the establishment of a Director Affairs Committee to assist the board in governance practices, director continuity and nomination.
The group is of the view that the existing Chairmans Committee and supporting processes address these matters.
Should this become mandatory, the group will implement the committee as required.
Key international emerging governance issues, which Investec is consciously addressing, revolve around: Board composition, performance and reward practices.
Identification and response to risks, both known and anticipated.
Confidence and trust in public disclosures and reporting.
Corporate social responsibility and the impact of activities, both directly and indirectly, on communities and stakeholders.
160 Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance practices and conduct at Investec Responsibility The directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited consolidated financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the annual report.
In discharging this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, which was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The process is implemented by Investec management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the audit, risk and other subcommittees of the board, which are referred to below.
Corporate governance structure Board of Directors Investec Limited and Investec plc Remuneration Nomination Audit Committee Board Risk Review Chairmans Committee Committee & Sub-Committees Committee Committee Group ALCO Committee Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum Group Credit Committee Country Risk Forum Group Market Risk Forum Executive Risk Review Forum Group Deal Forum Internal Audit Compliance Risk Management Stakeholders shareholders, investors, depositors, borrowers, staff, suppliers, communities, supervisors Annual Report 2003 161 Corporate governance Investec considers sound corporate governance practices to be fundamental to the operation of a banking group.
Corporate governance, in essence, is the formal maintenance of the necessary balance between entrepreneurial thrust and enterprise, and prudential restraint, within the boundaries of sound business practices and regulation.
The board retains responsibility for the overall process and structure of corporate governance of the group.
In addition, the group has a division dedicated exclusively to corporate governance issues.
Adherence to good corporate governance practices, however, is also considered to be a responsibility of each business area, as well as all employees world-wide.
Sound corporate governance therefore continues to be instilled in the groups values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
The group has over time created and continues to refine the structures necessary to formalise oversight and to ensure that the values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
These structures include Investecs written Statement of Values, which serves as its Code of Ethics and has always been a pillar of Investecs culture.
The groups values and philosophies form the framework against which behaviour, practices and activities are measured to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Governance at Investec is not about checklist conformance.
Rather it is about substance and embedded practices that are challenged regularly for their effectiveness and relevance.
The characteristics of good corporate governance subscribed to by Investec are founded on: Fairness: understanding and recognition of the broader stakeholder community.
Accountability: forums and management structures promote accountability for decisions and actions.
Responsibility: strong values and internal processes support identification and escalation of issues and the implementation of appropriate responses and corrective action.
Transparency: timely communication of financial and non-financial matters allows for a clear understanding of the economic performance of the group.
Discipline: commitment by senior management to sound governance practices, and consistent behaviour in line with the values of the group.
Independence: an ethos, processes and structures allow for conflicts of interest and undue influence to be prevented and challenged.
Social responsibility: understanding of the direct and indirect impacts of the groups operations on communities and environments and acting in a responsible and ethical manner.
The pillars of good governance at Investec are considered to revolve around the following key practices and processes: Board and board practices that demonstrate a sound governance environment with appropriate decision-making, oversight and reward structures that promote long-term shareholder value.
Management structure and skills that support and drive the implementation of the strategic objectives for the benefit of stakeholders.
Internal control environment and associated assurance processes to prevent or detect with reasonable assurance errors, fraud, misappropriation and other unacceptable processes.
Risk management processes to identify and regularly assess risks, measure and monitor key risk information, mitigate risks identified and respond to risks that materialise.
162 Annual Report 2003 Corporate social responsibility programme and disclosure that reflects an understanding of the social, environmental and economic impacts of the groups activities and the management initiatives to maximise opportunities.
Stakeholder engagement that is proactive in managing and communicating developments and expectations in order to promote and support long-term investment.
Disclosure of financial, non-financial and risk issues as appropriate, in accordance with generally accepted practices, to enable a clear understanding of risk and investment profiles.
A balance and alignment of various processes and practices with the teams that drive and support these pillars is key to the achievement of an effective and efficient governance process.
In addition, risk and control consciousness, compliance awareness, oversight and supervision processes are core to ensuring that a considered and diligent approach is inherent in the daily activities and transactions of the group.
Sound governance practices enable the group to anticipate and respond proactively to developing issues, which in turn enhances Investecs ability to: Balance entrepreneurial flair with independent and objective oversight.
Maintain confidence in the group by clients, counterparties, shareholders and regulators.
Sustain the reputation of the group and the brand.
Ensure liquidity and support levels to meet group demands.
Satisfy supervisor and regulator objectives and minimise systemic risk to the industry.
Promote stakeholder value by protecting assets and minimising losses.
Ensure proactive, transparent and timeous communication with stakeholders, which enhances the reliability of information.
Operate in a sustainable manner with a long-term vision.
Operate in compliance with the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
Board opinion The board is of the opinion that Investec conforms substantially to King II, except as disclosed, in particular the independence of the non-executive Chairman and of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Donn Jowell.
In addition, the group has adopted the Turnbull Guidance, containing principles for consideration by directors on the implementation of the Accountability and Audit Principles of the UK Combined Code on good governance and best practice.
This requires management and the board to assess the risk management and internal control environment, identify key risks and risk information and indicators, embed a culture of risk awareness and control consciousness, obtain assurance of implementation of risk management processes and review the governance processes.
This guidance aligns with the risk management practices contained in King II.
Investec plc commenced trading as a UK listed company on 29 July 2002.
Prior to this date, Investec was not subject to the UK Combined Code requirements.
The board considers that the company is in compliance with the above principles as at the date of this report.
The board expects that the company will continue to comply with these principles on this basis throughout the financial year ending 31 March 2004.
Annual Report 2003 163 Other international business units operate in accordance with the governance recommendations of their jurisdiction, but with clear reference at all times to group values and culture.
The group recognises its responsibility as a financial institution to conduct its affairs with prudence and integrity and to safeguard the interests of all stakeholders, thereby maintaining its reputation and therefore public confidence.
Investec will continue to monitor and review practices and respond to developing trends in a pragmatic and proactive manner.
Furthermore, Investec is committed to maintaining sound corporate governance practices in each jurisdiction in which the group operates.
Detailed below are the Investec practices and conduct, which support the boards opinion.
Board of Directors Composition For the year under review, the same people constituted the Investec plc and Investec Limited boards.
The boards comprised four executive and nine non-executive directors.
The board is balanced so that no individual or small group can dominate decision making.
Subsidiary boards are similarly balanced.
Board size is subject to review and assessment.
As recommended by the Myburgh Review, the board of Investec Bank Limited was reviewed and restructured as set out above.
The boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate and subject to legal obligations particular to each respective company.
The boards comprise the same persons who are authorised, as board members, to manage Investec as if it were a unified economic enterprise.
Biographical details of the directorate are provided on pages 209 to 211.
All board members are suitably experienced, have a clear understanding of their role in corporate governance and are not subject to undue influence from management or outside concerns.
Nonexecutive directors are individuals of high calibre with diverse backgrounds and expertise.
They provide objectivity and independence to board deliberations and decision-making processes.
Demographic representation was and continues to be addressed as part of the strategic positioning of the group.
Executive directors are encouraged to hold other non-executive directorships, but only to the extent that these do not interfere with their immediate management responsibilities.
Independence of non-executive directors The majority of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent of management and do not have any other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Hugh Herman, Donn Jowell, Ian Kantor and Mangalani Peter Malungani are not considered to be independent.
The directors consider that Sam Abrahams and Peter Thomas are independent, notwithstanding the compensation they receive to sit on a number of Investecs compliance and review committees such as the DLC Audit Committee, Group Credit Committee, Board Risk Review Committee and various audit sub-committees in an advisory capacity as non-executive directors.
164 Annual Report 2003 John Abell was appointed senior independent non-executive director.
The board believes that he brings valuable continuity, perception and experience to the board.
Appointment and selection The Nomination Committee is chaired by Hugh Herman and its other members are Sir Chips Keswick and Sam Abrahams.
In accordance with the Combined Code and King II, all members of the Nomination Committee are non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year and going forward it is intended that the committee will have two meetings a year.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill board vacancies and for making recommendations on board composition and balance.
In exercising this role, the directors take account of the guidance put forward in the Combined Code and King II.
The selection and nomination process is formal and transparent.
Prior to appointing a new director, the board investigates the candidates background thoroughly.
Board appointments are based on a required mix of skills, experience and demographics to ensure the ongoing success of the group.
The board has charged the Nomination Committee with the task of recommending proper processes to deal with succession planning of the board and will address this once the outcome of the Higgs Review is final.
It was announced on 20 June 2003 that Mr. Geoffrey MT Howe, formerly a Managing Partner of solicitors Clifford Chance LLP and Managing Director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited, and Miss.
Haruko Fakuda OBE, formerly Chief Executive of the World Gold Council, will be appointed to the boards of Investec Limited and Investec plc as independent non-executive directors, with effect from 21 July 2003.
New directors may hold office only until the next annual general meeting, at which they retire and become available for re-election.
All directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
The dates on which the directors were appointed to the boards of Investec Limited and Investec plc can be found on page 189.
All non-executive directors, on appointment, are familiarised appropriately with the operations of the group, senior management and its business environment and are inducted in terms of their fiduciary duties and responsibilities.
Details of directors service contracts and remuneration packages can be found in the remuneration report on pages 185 to 203.
Board self-evaluation Board effectiveness is subject to regular self-evaluation, which is co-ordinated by the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Self-evaluation addresses the King II Code of Practice, the Combined Code and other sound practices, including statutory responsibilities.
Directors contributions are subject to ongoing review.
Annual Report 2003 165 Role and responsibility The board retains full and effective control of the group and is ultimately accountable and responsible for the performance and affairs of the group.
This includes the responsibility for reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, understanding the key risks faced by the group, and determining the risk tolerance of the group and the processes in place to mitigate these.
The board has defined the limits of delegated authority and is ultimately responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies, overseeing major capital expenditures, acquisitions and disposals, approving the establishment of businesses, and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In discharging its responsibilities, the board is supported by members of Investec management, who are required to implement the board plans and strategies.
The board monitors managements progress in this regard on an ongoing basis.
Furthermore, the board, directly or through its sub-committees: Continually assesses both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the groups performance through a comprehensive system of financial and non-financial monitoring.
This involves an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting and management strategic and operational updates.
Approves the annual budgets and business plans.
Monitors the groups compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice.
Monitors the groups communication with all stakeholders.
Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators.
Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of the groups internal systems of control.
The board is accountable to all Investecs stakeholders for exercising leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of its strategic goals and objectives, and to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity for the group.
All directors are regularly kept abreast of statutory, regulatory, accounting, non-financial and industry developments, which may affect the activities of the group.
Furthermore, non-executive directors have unrestricted access to management, including the Company Secretaries, and to such information, records and documents as are needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities comprehensively and effectively.
To facilitate this, non-executive directors participate in key board sub-committees and other forums, as indicated elsewhere in this section.
Furthermore, all directors are entitled to take such independent professional advice as is necessary to fulfill their duties, at the groups expense.
Board meetings Board meetings are scheduled at the commencement of each calendar year and, in terms of the requirements of the groups DLC structure, the number of meetings must be scheduled equally in the UK and South Africa in any calendar year.
Directors are provided with full board papers to enable them to consider in advance the issues on which they will be requested to give decisions.
166 Annual Report 2003 Management has an obligation to provide the board with appropriate and timely information.
Board packs typically include: Monthly management accounts.
Status reports from Group Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit.
Report and minutes of the DLC, Investec Limited and Investec plc Audit Committees.
Report of the Chief Executive Officer, which includes an update on financial and non-financial aspects and developments within the group.
Reports from the key operating divisions, which include an update on their overall performance and other non-financial aspects and developments.
Reports on the groups shareholder composition and movements therein.
Report from the Investor Relations division, which includes an update on various stakeholder issues.
Reports on significant regulatory issues.
Prior to the implementation of the DLC structure the Investec Group Limited board met on two occasions.
The Investec Limited and Investec plc boards met five times each during the year, following the implementation of the groups DLC structure.
All members were present at these meetings, except for the circumstances stated below: Sir Chips Keswick was unable to attend one meeting.
Mangalani Peter Malungani was unable to attend two meetings.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, so that no individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
Both the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are appointed by the board.
The board is led by the Chairman, Hugh Herman.
The board appraises the Chairmans performance annually.
The Chief Executive Officer is Stephen Koseff, who is responsible to the board for the implementation of its strategies and policies.
The Chairman of the board and the non-executive directors review the performance of the Chief Executive Officer annually.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary of Investec Limited is Selwyn Noik, who is considered to be suitably qualified and experienced and was appointed by the board in February 1994.
The Company Secretary of Investec Limited is responsible for the duties stipulated in section 268 G of the South African Companies Act, 1973.
The Company Secretary of Investec plc is Richard Vardy, who is considered to be suitably qualified and experienced and was appointed by the board in June 2002.
Richard Vardy was appointed as Secretary for Investec Bank UK Limited in 1996.
Both the Company Secretaries are supported in their role in the groups corporate governance process by the Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance and are empowered by the board so that they may fulfill their duties properly.
Annual Report 2003 167 In addition to statutory duties, the Company Secretaries are required to provide the directors of the board, collectively and individually, with guidance on how their responsibilities should be properly discharged in the best interests of the group.
The Company Secretaries play an important role in the induction of new directors and also assist the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in determining the annual board meeting plan.
Furthermore, the Company Secretaries are required to ensure that the directors are aware of all legislation relevant to, or affecting, the group, and report at any meetings of the shareholders of the group or of the groups directors, any failure to comply with such legislation.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries, whose appointment and removal is a matter for the board as a whole.
Management Global business unit heads, geographic management, and heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have fixed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Investecs management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities have been built around a geographic, divisional and functional matrix, as depicted on page 63.
Furthermore, each strategic business unit has its own executive management committee and is responsible for taking and implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Executive managers are required to provide the board with appropriate and timely financial and nonfinancial information necessary for it to fulfill its responsibilities.
On an operational level, below the Investec Limited and Investec plc boards are two principal forums: the Global Operations Forum and the Global Group Management Forum Global GMF.
In addition, there are regional management forums in the UK and South Africa.
Global Group Management Forum The Global GMF meets bi-monthly, alternating between the UK and South Africa.
The purpose of this forum is to identify and discuss key strategic and policy issues and opportunities facing the divisions, geographic operations and Investec as a whole.
Typically, acquisition proposals, critical Investec projects, and other key growth and development recommendations are raised and debated at the Global GMF and approved by the directors.
The Global GMF serves as an effective integrating mechanism, allowing for constant feedback and input from all members.
The forum gives the groups management teams the opportunity to remain in touch with developments in the group as a whole.
This helps to minimise duplicated effort and to enhance synergies across businesses and geographies.
168 Annual Report 2003 The Global GMF also provides a forum for communication between senior management and the executive directors.
The members of the Global GMF are: Name Title Joined Investec Residence Age Stephen Koseff Chief Executive Officer 1980 South Africa 51 Bernard Kantor Managing Director 1980 UK 53 Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk Management and Joint Managing Director of Investecs South African operations 1980 South Africa 46 Fred Carr Head of Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking - UK 1997 UK 58 Perry Crosthwaite Head of Investment Banking - UK 1998 UK 54 Steve Elliott Executive Director Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite 1989 UK 49 Richard Forlee Global Head of Treasury and Specialised Finance and Regional Head of Investecs Asian operations 1988 UK 42 Bradley Fried Joint Global Head of Investment Banking and Joint Regional Head of Investecs UK operations 1999 UK 37 Sam Hackner Global Head of Private Banking 1989 South Africa 47 Rayanne Jacobson Global Head of Finance 1996 South Africa 34 David Lawrence Deputy Chairman of the groups South African operations responsibility for banking, institutions and corporate relations 1996 South Africa 52 Andy Leith Joint Managing Director of Investecs South African operations and Joint Global Head of Investment Banking 1994 South Africa 43 Geoff Levy Chief Executive Officer of Investecs Australian operation 2001 Australia 44 Patsy McCue Global Head of Human Resources 1984 South Africa 41 Simon Shapiro Global Head of Information Technology 1990 South Africa 45 Caryn Solomon Global Head of Organisational Development 2000 UK 49 Alan Tapnack Joint Regional Head of Investecs UK operations and Head of Investecs Israeli operations 1991 UK 56 Bradley Tapnack Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance 1986 South Africa 56 Hendrik du Toit Global Head of Investec Asset Management 1991 UK 41 Raymond van Niekerk Global Head of Marketing 2001 South Africa 40 Allen Zimbler Chief Integrating Officer 2001 UK 53 Global Operations Forum The Global Operations Forum meets monthly, with half the meetings in the UK and half in South Africa.
The key role of this forum is the implementation of Investecs strategy and global operational responsibility and co-ordination.
Annual Report 2003 169 The members of the Global Operations Forum are: Name Title Joined Investec Residence Age Stephen Koseff Chief Executive Officer 1980 South Africa 51 Bernard Kantor Managing Director 1980 UK 53 Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk Management and Joint Managing Director of Investecs South African operations1980 South Africa 46 Bradley Fried Joint Global Head of Investment Banking and Joint Regional Head of Investecs UK operations 1999 UK 37 Richard Forlee Global Head of Treasury and Specialised Finance and Regional Head of Investecs Asian operations 1988 UK 42 Sam Hackner Global Head of Private Banking 1989 South Africa 47 Andy Leith Joint Managing Director of Investecs South African operations and Joint Global Head of Investment Banking 1994 South Africa 43 Hendrik du Toit Global Head of Investec Asset Management 1991 UK 41 Allen Zimbler Chief Integrating Officer 2001 UK 53 Regional Management Forums Investec has Regional Management Forums in each of the principal geographies in which it operates.
The forums meet fortnightly and are responsible for the day-to-day management of their respective geographies.
Each forum plays a key role in communications and in the sourcing of debates and ideas that are ultimately presented to the relevant boards.
The two principal Regional Management Forums are based in the UK and South Africa.
Various other formal and informal processes promote interactive dialogue and independent review between group management and the non-executive directors.
Succession planning Succession planning is initiated at management level, where the depth, scope and diversity of talent is identified and nurtured.
This ensures that the group maintains a substantial pool of talent from which senior management and executives can be selected when required.
The executives have identified successors for key executive management positions.
Board sub-committees A number of board sub-committees assist the board in the discharge of its duties.
The features of these committees are as follows: The sub-committees all have specific terms of reference that include roles and responsibilities, and are accountable to the board.
170 Annual Report 2003 Sub-committee members have the requisite skills commensurate with the committees objectives and scope of activity.
Non-executive board members have been assigned to all of the sub-committees.
Various members of management are invited to attend sub-committee and board meetings whenever appropriate.
The board sub-committees are free to take independent outside professional advice at the expense of the company as and when necessary.
Sub-committees provide regular reports on their activities to the board.
The board sub-committees are outlined below.
Chairmans Committee The Chairmans Committee is responsible for consultation on and implementation of the groups strategy.
Responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the business is delegated to senior management, as described above.
The committee is chaired by Hugh Herman Chairman of the board and a nonexecutive director.
Members of the Chairmans Committee are: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance Director.
Stephen Koseff Chief Executive Officer.
David M Lawrence executive director - Investec Bank Limited.
Bradley Tapnack executive director - Investec Bank Limited.
The Chairmans Committee met twice during the financial year and going forward it is intended that the committee will have four meetings a year.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is discussed under appointment and selection above.
Remuneration Committee The Investec combined group Remuneration Committee is chaired by John Abell and the other members are Sir Chips Keswick, George Alford and Peter Thomas.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and King II, all members of the Remuneration Committee are independent nonexecutive directors.
Information on the Remuneration Committees role and responsibilities and details of directors remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 185 to 203.
Annual Report 2003 171 Audit Committee The former Investec Group Limited Audit Committee was reconstituted in terms of the implementation of the groups DLC structure.
The reconstituted Investec combined DLC group Audit Committee referred to in this section as the DLC Audit Committee is chaired by Donn Jowell and its other members are George Alford and John Abell.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and King II, all members of the DLC Audit Committee are non-executive directors and a majority of the voting members are independent directors.
Donn Jowell is not considered to be an independent non-executive director, but the other members are considered to be independent.
In addition, Sam Abrahams a non-executive director is a non-voting member of the DLC Audit Committee who attends meetings of, and lends his experience to, the Committee.
Furthermore, in terms of the DLC structure, Investec Limited and Investec plc have individual Audit Committees that share similar responsibilities to the DLC Audit Committee and report to the DLC Audit Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee of Investec plc are John Abell Chairman, George Alford and Sir Chips Keswick.
All the members are non-executive directors and are considered to be independent in terms of the Combined Code.
The members of the Audit Committee of Investec Limited are Donn Jowell Chairman, Sam Abrahams and Peter Thomas.
All the members are nonexecutive directors and the majority are considered to be independent in terms of King II.
A number of senior managers are invited or required by the various Audit Committee charters to attend the Audit Committee meetings.
These include the Chief Executive Officer of the group, members of the Finance, Operational Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance divisions, and the Chief Technology Officer.
Representatives of the respective firms of external auditors have permanent invitations and attend meetings as a matter of course.
In addition, the Chairman of the various Audit Committees has the right to call in any other employee of the group who is able to assist the committee on an ad hoc basis.
The committees are responsible for, among other things: The review and recommendation for the boards approval of Investecs combined consolidated and individual company reports and accounts and other published financial reporting documents.
Review of the appropriateness of the combined groups and individual companies accounting policies and the application thereof.
Overseeing of Investecs external audit process in the review of reports and accounts.
Consideration of the external audit scope, fees and audit findings.
Review of Internal Audit plans, capacity and capability, and the reliance by external audit on the work and findings of Internal Audit.
Review of non-audit services provided by the groups auditors.
Focus on Investecs compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements.
Measures to maintain effective systems of internal financial control and for reporting non-financial operating data.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and half-yearly report and accounts of the combined group and individual companies will remain with the boards.
172 Annual Report 2003 The risk and compliance managers, internal auditors, respective firms of external auditors and nonexecutive directors all have unrestricted access to the Chairman of each Audit Committee and to one another.
They submit formal reports to the committee at its meetings throughout the year.
In addition, the various supervisory and regulatory bodies meet with the Chairmen of the various Audit Committees at least annually.
The DLC Audit Committee met six times during the financial year.
Four of these meetings were held prior to the implementation of the groups DLC structure.
The Investec plc Audit Committee has been operational since the implementation of the groups DLC structure and met four times during the financial year, with all its members present at all the meetings.
The Investec Limited Audit Committee has been operational since the implementation of the groups DLC structure and met three times during the financial year, with all its members present at all the meetings.
Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum During the year, the group established an Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum in South Africa, to mirror the forum in the UK.
The Chairman of the forum is Bradley Tapnack Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance and other attendees include key executive directors and heads of Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance.
Non-executive directors attend by invitation.
The purpose of the forum is to appropriately address and discuss matters: Which are considered to be of higher risk.
Where management is accepting a higher residual risk.
Where there is a dispute between management and the parties listed above.
Where managements response to issues raised is not considered appropriate.
The forum performs a key role in enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forum met three times during the financial year.
Board Risk Review Committee The Board Risk Review Committee is chaired by Stephen Koseff Chief Executive Officer and comprises: Sam E Abrahams non-executive director.
Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance Director.
Richard Forlee Global Head of the Treasury and Specialised Finance division.
Annual Report 2003 173 The purpose of the committee is to ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec.
The risk management structure is adequate, with sufficient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board.
Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are ratified.
There is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly for any changes to business objectives.
The Board Risk Review Committee defines the processes by which internal financial control and risk is assumed, measured and monitored.
The independent Group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques to monitor these risks.
A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the Board Risk Review Committee and the Board of Directors.
These include the Group ALCO Committee, Group Credit Committee, Country Risk Forum, Group Market Risk Forum and Group Deal Forum.
Details of these committees can be found in the section on Risk Management on page 128 and 129.
The Board Risk Review Committee meets monthly.
There is a clear distinction between the governance and implementation of risk processes.
The former is vested in the Board of Directors and the board committees, while the implementation of risk processes is the responsibility of management, who report to the committees regularly.
Management has unrestricted access to the board committees.
Executive Risk Review Forum The Executive Risk Review Forum, which supplements the Board Risk Review Committee, consists of executive directors and senior management and meets weekly.
Its mandate is to review and evaluate the significant risks faced by the group, ensure adherence to risk limits, report limit breaches, and ensure implementation of and adherence to agreed risk mitigation recommendations.
Group Risk Management Risk management is critical to Investec.
The group strives to understand and measure risks in order to make considered judgements and decisions and to limit loss situations.
The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the system of internal control and has implemented a number of committees as mentioned above to assist in this regard.
An independent Group Risk Management division, which is accountable to the board, is responsible for implementing, designing and monitoring the process of risk management and integrating it into the dayto-day activities of Investec.
174 Annual Report 2003 The board has reviewed and approved the groups risk strategy and philosophies, together with executive directors and senior management, and is responsible for the ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of the groups risk management processes.
Furthermore, the group continues to embed a culture of risk awareness, control and compliance in its activities.
The effectiveness of any banks policies and procedures for managing risk can never be completely or accurately predicted or fully assured.
The board is of the view that there are sufficient ongoing processes, which have steadily improved over the years, for identifying, assessing and monitoring the significant risks faced by the group.
These processes were in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
For further details on the groups risk management process, see pages 125 to 157.
Internal control Controls are reviewed and evaluated regularly for appropriateness and effectiveness.
The Board Risk Review Committee and the Audit Committees assist the board in this regard as discussed above.
Best practices are reinforced through active risk management processes and initiatives.
The board has the overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, not eliminate, significant risks faced by the group and was in place for the year under review.
It is recognised that such a system can only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The group adopted the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull Guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
This requires the board, through its appropriate management and agreed control processes, to: Assess the control and risk management environment.
Identify risks and risk information.
Embed a culture of risk awareness and control consciousness.
Obtain assurance of implementation of risk management processes.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identification, evaluation and monitoring process, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and various control functions such as the Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance divisions.
These ongoing processes were in place throughout the year under review.
As part of the process, the overall Investec business was broken down into strategic business units.
Through establishment of a network of local risk champions, each unit was empowered with the responsibility and accountability for management of its own risk.
Each business unit now follows a consistent risk assessment process through workshops facilitated by Group Risk Management.
Objectives to achieve shareholder value are defined, and the risks to these objectives and controls for each risk are identified and evaluated.
Annual Report 2003 175 The action plans and risk and control issues arising from this process are reviewed regularly at the relevant executive and management committees based at a business unit level.
The Internal Audit division is independent and reports directly to the various Audit Committees operating under an approved charter.
On an ongoing basis, any material shortcomings in control effectiveness are noted in internal audit reports for each business unit.
Effective mechanisms are in place, in order to ensure that appropriate corrective action is taken to remedy control weaknesses highlighted by the Internal Audit and Compliance divisions.
The groups significant risks are reviewed weekly by the Executive Risk Review Forum and monthly by the Board Risk Review Committee.
The purposes of these committees are set out above.
Significant and material breaches of prescribed controls are reported to the Board Risk Review Committee.
Reports from the control functions, the Audit Committees and the Board Risk Review Committee are reviewed at each board meeting.
Internal financial control Financial controls throughout the group focus on critical risk areas.
These areas are, as appropriate, identified by operational management, confirmed by group management, monitored by the board, reviewed by Group Risk Management, assessed by the risk assurance functions of Internal Audit and Compliance, and evaluated by the independent auditors.
Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures see Role and responsibility above.
Management is responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably qualified and that an appropriate segregation exists between duties and independent review.
Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
The directors consider that the groups system of internal financial control is adequately designed to: Provide reasonable, although not absolute, assurance of both the integrity and reliability of financial information.
Identify and appropriately mitigate significant risks.
Safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of assets.
Support business objectives and sustainability under normal and adverse operating conditions.
Ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Internal and external audit An Internal Audit division is based in each significant jurisdiction in which the group operates.
Internal Audit operates independently from executive management, with unrestricted access to the Chairmen of the various Audit Committees.
The Audit Committees review the mandate, authority, resources, scope of work and effectiveness of Internal Audit annually.
The review also includes an assessment of the work 176 Annual Report 2003 conducted by internal and external audit.
For further details on the groups Internal Audit division, see page 153 and 154.
The groups external auditors are Ernst & Young and KPMG.
The group encourages consultation between external and internal auditors within defined parameters that does not in any way impair the independence of any party.
Group Compliance Investec has an independent Group Compliance function within its risk management framework, which is responsible for assisting management in complying with statutory, regulatory, supervisory and policyholder protection rule requirements.
The Compliance division has unrestricted access to the Chairmen of the various Audit Committees.
For further details on the Groups Compliance function, see pages 154 to 156..
The group responds proactively and pragmatically to new regulatory developments in order to promote sound practices and minimise the impact of regulatory risk.
Communication, disclosure, transparency and relations with stakeholders The Board of Directors subscribes to a philosophy of providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to its primary stakeholders, which include shareholders, employees, rating agencies, regulatory bodies, clients and industry investment analysts.
This is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
Investec endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the groups position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern.
The group also seeks to highlight the key risks to which it considers itself exposed and the responses to minimise the impact of the risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of the activities of the group, in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of its performance.
The board recognises the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all the groups stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and any other shareholder meetings of Investec, and to raise issues and participate in discussion on items included in the notice of the meeting.
The AGM provides an opportunity for the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to put their questions across in person.
The chairpersons of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the AGM to respond to relevant questions.
At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all shareholders.
Investec proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
The shareholders are specifically requested to approve the groups report and Annual Report 2003 177 accounts and its remuneration report.
The group has an Investor Relations division, which is responsible for ensuring appropriate communication with its stakeholders.
Regular contact is maintained with institutional shareholders, fund and asset managers, analysts and rating agencies through a comprehensive investor relations programme.
This includes meetings with executive management, investor road shows, presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
The Investor Relations division reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on various matters and concerns raised by stakeholders.
The group responds proactively to all requests for explanation or additional information raised by shareholder representative bodies, in order to enable shareholders to better understand the group and its operations.
Significant announcements are released directly to the market via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg Stock Exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all stakeholders.
Furthermore, the group maintains a comprehensive investor relations web site, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information, including credit ratings, financial results and share price information.
The contact details of the Investor Relations division are provided at the beginning of this report.
The groups Marketing team, in close co-operation with the executive and the Investor Relations division, liaises with the media to ensure that the public is kept fully informed.
The group also employs external public relations specialists to assist in this regard.
The groups ongoing commitment to provide timeous, detailed and relevant disclosure to its stakeholders was rewarded during the year, when it received the following awards: Best Investment Analyst Society Presentation - Investment Analysts Society of Southern Africa.
Rated in the excellent category just outside the top 10 of the top 100 listed companies on the JSE - Ernst & Young Excellence in Financial Reporting Award.
Third place for the best investor relations web-site among JSE top 40 companies - South African IR Magazine Awards.
Second place for best crisis management in relation to the way in which the group handled the rumours surrounding the decline in its share price during February and March 2003 - South African IR Magazine Awards.
Investecs communication policy focuses on ensuring that all employees worldwide are kept informed of its aspirations and activities.
The group produces a quarterly magazine, Impact, for all its employees, which provides information on the latest happenings within Investec.
Furthermore, the group has a comprehensive intranet site in South Africa and the UK, which provides employees with prompt communication on group developments and topics of interest.
Urgent notices are sent out to all staff through the groups internal email systems.
178 Annual Report 2003 Communication between the board, the group executive and senior management is facilitated by the Global GMF and the regional management forums, as discussed on pages 167 to 169.
Regulation and supervision The group is subject to external regulation and supervision by various South African and international statutory bodies and regulators.
In terms of the DLC structure, the South African Reserve Bank SARB Banking Supervision Department is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group comprising Investec Limited and Investec plc.
The SARB is also the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the Financial Services Authority in the UK is the supervisor of Investec plc.
The group strives to achieve open and active dialogue with its regulators and supervisors, to comply with the various regulatory and supervisory requirements.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues.
The group reports to regulators and supervisory bodies regularly.
Where appropriate, the group participates in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which it operates.
Financial reporting and going concern Investec operates under a DLC structure see pages 4 to 6, which requires compliance with the corporate and accounting regulations of both the UK and South Africa.
The financial statements of the group were prepared on the going concern basis.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that adequate resources exist to support the group on a going concern basis over the next year.
Values and code of conduct Organisational integrity is covered in detail in Investecs Journey to Sustainability 2003 report.
The group has a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of the expected behaviour of the group towards all stakeholders, both internal and external.
These values are embodied in a written Statement of Values, which serves as the groups Code of Ethics and is continually reinforced.
The groups Code of Ethics is updated from time to time.
Investecs values demand that the directors and employees of the group conduct all internal and external dealings with integrity, consistently and uncompromisingly displaying moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust.
Conflicts of interest are required to be disclosed.
The group regularly conducts values workshops across the entire group, to review with all members of staff the values, their meaning, relevance and importance in the daily operations of the group.
The group views all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such, all new employees are invited to attend induction processes at which the groups philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Furthermore, the groups Organisational Development team Annual Report 2003 179 plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of the groups values, philosophies and culture.
Investec continually strives to conduct its business with uncompromising integrity and fairness so as to promote complete trust and confidence in the banking industry.
In addition to the group values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resource practices manual, which is available online on the groups intranet.
Dealings in securities Investecs policy on Personal Account Dealing is based on the position paper and guidelines issued by the regulators and is based on international best practice.
The policy includes the following features: It prohibits trading by staff for speculative purposes and therefore requires a minimum 30-day holding period for securities.
The groups Compliance division is required to sign-off on all employee dealings in securities.
The groups Compliance division facilitates the compilation of a restricted list and imposes a closed period for staff dealing in Investec securities prior to the publication of the financial statements.
In terms of this closed period policy, directors, officers, participants in the share incentive scheme and staff who may have access to price sensitive information are precluded from dealing in Investec shares approximately two months prior to the release of the groups interim and financial results.
The groups Compliance division administer compliance with the groups Personal Account Dealing policy.
Each employee is required to sign an undertaking on this policy, whereby they agree to disclose all their personal and connected party accounts.
The policy, furthermore, requires that all staff dealings be facilitated through an approved brokerage account.
Details of directors dealings in Investec shares in accordance with the JSE and UK listings requirements, are made publicly available.
Employee participation and skills Investec aspires to be one of the worlds great specialist banking groups and its success depends on its employees.
Investec recognises that its people are its most important asset.
Its philosophy, therefore, is to employ the highest calibre individuals, who are characterised by integrity, intellect and innovation, and demonstrate compatibility with Investecs philosophy and core values.
Investec has a flat, integrated structure, where individuality is encouraged.
The directors believe that, ultimately, Investecs success depends on its people working together in the interests of clients.
For this reason, Investec strongly emphasises the processes of recruitment, education and development.
To this end, Investec has an internal business learning centre which, together with the various divisions, offers a wide range of training programmes aimed at enhancing employee potential.
The groups culture values employee participation in the decision-making process, and encourages communication throughout the group, achieved in part by encouraging wide participation in formal forums and processes.
180 Annual Report 2003 Material employee ownership Material employee ownership is one of Investecs fundamental philosophies.
As at 31 March 2003, management and staff held an effective interest in Investec of approximately 20%.
Ownership of the group is devolved on employees through the various share options and leveraged equity schemes, and participation in ownership by all employees is actively encouraged.
The purpose of these schemes is to promote an esprit fide corps within the organisation, create an awareness of Investecs performance and provide an incentive to maximise individual and group performance by allowing all employees to share in the risks and rewards of the group.
Information on the various schemes can be found in the remuneration report on pages 185 to 203.
Sustainability reporting Corporate reporting is moving continuously towards greater transparency, accountability and integrity, as a foundation for good governance.
It is becoming increasingly important for companies to focus on the qualitative measures of corporate reporting, which cover the social, environmental and economic aspects of the business.
The group is aware of the requirement, as laid out by King II and other international guidelines, to report on its triple bottom line and other integrated sustainability reporting issues.
Investecs Journey to Sustainability 2003 was produced as a separate report accompanying the Annual Report for 2003.
The report shows in detail Investecs commitment to enhanced corporate responsibility, stakeholder accountability and creditable performance reporting.
Further detail is also provided on pages 181 to 184.
