Corporate Governance Introduction Governance regarding Directors retirement by To ensure the appropriate level of corporate rotation and the annual re-election of long serving governance, two important documents were Directors.
The full text of the Resolution is set out published in July 2003: The London Stock as Resolution number 9 on page 34.
Exchanges revised Combined Code on Corporate The Company has no executive Directors or Governance for all listed companies and the employees and a management agreement between Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC the Company and JPMFAM sets out matters over Code of Corporate Governance for Investment which the Manager has authority.
Compliance with the revised Combined management of the Companys assets and the Code is mandatory for accounting periods provision of accounting, company secretarial, commencing on or after 1st November 2003 and its administrative and some marketing services.
All aim is to improve investor confidence by enhancing other matters are reserved for the approval of the the effectiveness of Boards.
Corporate Governance complements the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year Combined Code and provides a framework of best and between these meetings there is regular practice for investment trusts.
contact with the Manager who provides the Board The Board is responsible for ensuring the with appropriate and timely management appropriate level of corporate governance and has information.
The Board regularly reviews both the put in place arrangements which it believes enable performance of, and the contractual arrangements the Company to comply with the 1998 Combined with, the Manager.
The Directors also have access, Code throughout 2003.
In addition, the Board has where necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, reviewed both the revised Combined Code and the to independent professional advice at the expense AITC Code and is in the process of establishing of the Company.
procedures which will enable the Company to The table below details the number of Board and comply with these codes going forward.
The Committee Meetings attended by each Director.
following report outlines how the principles of the During the year there were six Board meetings, two 1998 Combined Code were applied during the year Audit Committee meetings and one Nomination and also provides information on the processes the Committee meeting.
Board have put in place to comply with the revised Audit Nomination Combined Code henceforth.
Board Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings The Board Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, 1 HN Buchan 6622 1 1 chaired by Hamish Buchan, all of which are 2,3, 5 JG Fox 642 1 GP Greener 6522 1 1 considered to be independent, except Iain RJHD Palmer 6 5 2 1 1 1 Saunders who was previously employed by the 4 IOS Saunders 6 5 1 3,5 Manager.
JP Williams 632 1 1 As explained in the Directors Report, the Board is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
2 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
proposing at the forthcoming Annual General 3 Appointed 22nd July 2003.
4 Meeting to amend its Articles of Association to Invited by the Committee to be in attendance.
5 Ineligible to attend two Board meetings, two Audit ensure compliance with the requirements of the Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee Combined Code and the AITC Code of Corporate meeting as appointed part way through the year.
26 JPMorgan Fleming American Corporate Governance continued During the year the Board reviewed its The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
composition to make sure that there was a balance The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of skills and experience.
Following the Annual of management in relation to the interim and annual General Meeting on 23rd April 2003, Hamish financial statements and the Companys compliance Buchan was appointed Chairman following the with the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the retirement of Nicholas Cosh.
James Williams and management agreement and examines the James Fox were both appointed Directors of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Company on 22nd July 2003.
James Fox was also systems, receives information from the Managers appointed the Audit Committee Chairman.
compliance department and also reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness Directors are initially appointed until the following and the independence and objectivity of the external Annual General Meeting when, under the auditors.
The Directors statement on the Companys Companys Articles of Association, it is required system of internal control is set out below.
that they be re-elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of The terms of reference for the Audit and Nomination three years.
A Director may then be invited to Committees are available for inspection on request serve for one or more further terms of three years, and at the Companys AGM.
in every case subject to the normal requirements Relations with Shareholders for re-election by shareholders at Annual General The Board regularly monitors the shareholder Meetings.
Any Director who has served for a period profile of the Company.
of more than nine years will stand for annual At the Companys Annual General Meeting the re-election thereafter.
Directors and representatives of the Manager are The Board does not consider it necessary to available in person to meet with and answer appoint a senior independent director as all of the shareholders questions.
In addition, a current Directors are non-executives and the Board presentation is given by the Investment Managers is of a small size.
who review the Companys performance.
During Board Committees the year the Investment Managers, JPMFAM and During the year the Board established a the Companys brokers hold regular discussions Nomination Committee which meets at least with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made annually to ensure that the Board has a balance of fully aware of their views and responses are skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary tailored as necessary.
The Chairman and Directors duties and to select and propose suitable make themselves available as and when required candidates where necessary for appointment.
variety of sources, including external search The Company reports formally to shareholders consultants, may be used to ensure that a wide twice a year by way of the Annual Report and range of candidates are considered.
Accounts and the Interim Report.
All shareholders The Committee also undertakes an annual have the opportunity to attend and vote at the performance evaluation to ensure that all members Annual General Meeting during which the Directors of the Board have devoted sufficient time and and Managers are available to discuss any issues contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
The Directors may be The Chairman is evaluated by other members of contacted through the Company Secretary whose the Board.
details are shown on page 51.
JPMorgan Fleming American 27 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control agreements which clearly define the lines of The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least responsibility, delegated authority, control annually, to review the effectiveness of the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by Companys system of internal control and to report JPMFAMs compliance department which regularly to shareholders that they have done so.
This monitors compliance with FSA rules.
encompasses a review of all controls, which the Investment Strategy Authorisation and Board has identified as including business, monitoring of the Companys investment strategy financial, operational, compliance and risk and exposure limits set by the Board.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of The Directors are responsible for the Companys the Companys system of internal control by system of internal control which is designed to monitoring the operation of the key operating safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper controls of the Manager and its associates as accounting records and ensure that financial follows: information used within the business, or the Board, through the Audit Committee, published, is reliable.
However, such a system can reviews the terms of the management only be designed to manage rather than eliminate agreement and receives regular reports from the risk of failure to achieve business objectives JPMFAMs compliance department: and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material the Board reviews the report on the internal mis-statement or loss.
controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently Since investment management, custody of assets reviewed: and and all administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the the Directors review every six months an Companys system of internal control mainly independent report on the internal controls and comprises monitoring the services provided by the operations of JPMFAM.
JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating By the means of the procedures set out above, the controls established by them, to ensure they meet Board confirms that it has reviewed the the Companys business objectives.
Consequently, effectiveness of the Companys system of internal the Company does not have an internal audit control for the year ended 31st December 2003, function.
The key elements designed to provide and to the date of approval of this Annual Report effective internal control are as follows: and Accounts.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Socially Responsible Investment review by the Board of key investment and The following is a summary of JPMFAMs policy financial data, including management accounts, statement on socially responsible investment revenue projections, analysis of transactions and SRI which has been noted by the Board: performance comparisons.
Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is Management Agreement Appointment of a our primary duty to act in the best financial manager and custodian regulated by the Financial interests of our clients and to achieve good Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities financial returns consistent with an acceptable are clearly defined in a written agreement.
level of risk in the management of our clients Management Systems The Managers system of investments.
A company run in the long-term internal control includes organisational interests of its shareholders with the objective 28 JPMorgan Fleming American Corporate Governance continued of enhancing shareholder value over time will In order to do this we have formulated detailed need to manage effectively relationships with guidelines, which set out our stance on a its employees, suppliers and customers, to variety of key corporate governance issues, behave ethically and to have regard to the including disclosure and transparency, board environment and society as a whole.
In our composition, committee structure, director pursuit of good financial returns for our clients, independence and remuneration issues, our investment managers take account of auditor rotation and social and environmental these and all other factors affecting the issues.
These guidelines form the basis of our valuation of the companies in which they are proxy voting decisions, although it should be currently invested or considering investment noted that JPMFAM makes all of its voting on behalf of clients.
decisions on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each Corporate Governance and Voting Policy vote.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMFAM.
The following is a summary of JPMFAMs policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted by the Board: JPMFAM is committed to delivering superior investment performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance in the management of their business.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMFAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
