Corporate governance The Company is committed a majority of independent Audit Committee the Groups system of internal to high standards of corporate non-executive directors who The Audit Committee comprises control and for reviewing its governance and supports and constitute the entire membership all of the non-executive directors, effectiveness.
However, such a has complied throughout 2003 of the Audit and Remuneration with the exception of Mr A P Dyer, system is designed to manage with the principles contained in Committees and represent a each of whom is independent, rather than eliminate the risk of the combined code on corporate majority of the Nomination and is chaired by Mr J F Harris failure to achieve business governance the Code applicable Committee.
None of the Companys who is considered by the Board objectives and can only provide for the year ended 31 December non-executive directors had any to have recent and relevant financial reasonable and not absolute 2003 and which are annexed to previous connection with the experience.
The Committee met assurance against material the Financial Services Authoritys Company or its executive directors four times during 2003.
It receives misstatement or loss.
Following the on appointment to the Board.
In and considers reports from the publication of the Higgs Report addition, the Groups operations external auditors and the internal In 1999 the Turnbull Committee on non-executive directors and the are devolved and the Group audit function.
The Committee published guidance on the wider Smith Report on audit committees benefits from the presence of also reviews and approves the aspects of internal control.
In the Code has been amended.
The strong senior line management level and type of non-audit work accordance with this guidance revised Code will be effective for in those operations.
The Deputy which the external auditors perform, the Company established the the 2004 financial year.
The Board Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, is a including the fees paid for such procedures necessary to ensure will continue to review its policies former non-executive Chairman work, thus ensuring that their that there is an ongoing process and procedures in light of the of the Company.
Mr J F Harris objectivity and independence is not for identifying, evaluating and revised Code.
has been designated as the senior compromised.
The Committees managing significant risks to the independent non-executive director.
terms of reference are available Group.
The Board confirms that The Board The Boards firm view is that the on the Companys website.
such procedures have been The Board currently comprises three Group does not suffer from a in place for the year ended executive and six non-executive damaging concentration of power Nomination Committee 31 December 2003 and up to directors all of whom have wide and is well protected from such a The Nomination Committee the date of approval of these experience and, apart from possibility.
Furthermore, it believes comprises Mr A J Habgood, financial statements and have Mr A P Dyer, are considered by that the current arrangements who chairs the Committee, been reviewed during the year.
both the Board and the criteria are in the best interests of the and Mr A P Dyer, Mr S G Williams, set out in the Higgs Report to business and of shareholders.
Mr J F Harris and Mr C A Banks.
The Board meets regularly be independent.
Brief biographical The Committee meets as throughout the year and has formally details of the directors are given The Company has instigated a necessary to enable it to make adopted a schedule of matters on pages 18 and 19 of the Annual formal Board evaluation process recommendations to the Board which are required to be brought Review and Summary Financial overseen by the Deputy Chairman, on new appointments of executive to it for decision.
The Board met nine Mr A P Dyer.
This includes and non-executive directors.
The the directors maintain overall control times during 2003.
Information completion of self-assessment Committee met once during the over all significant strategic, financial, relating to the conduct of Board forms by, and individual year.
The terms of reference of operational and compliance issues.
meetings and the procedures discussions with, each director.
the Committee are set out on The Board has delegated to implemented to ensure that the the Companys website.
management the responsibility Board retains overall control and Detailed information concerning for establishing a system of accountability for all strategic, directors remuneration is given Relations with shareholders internal control appropriate to financial, operational and compliance in the Directors Remuneration The Chairman and Finance the business environments in issues are set out in the internal Report on pages 32 to 37.
Director have regular meetings which the Group operates.
control report below and in the with representatives of institutional Financial Review on pages 20 Remuneration Committee shareholders and report to the Board The principal features of this and 21 of the Annual Review and The Remuneration Committee the views of major shareholders.
system include: Summary Financial Statement.
comprises all of the non-executive Additional forms of communication The Board has Audit, Remuneration directors, with the exception of include presentations of the a procedure for monitoring and Nomination Committees Mr A P Dyer, each of whom is interim and preliminary results.
the effectiveness of the internal which comply with the provisions independent, and is chaired by All shareholders are encouraged control system through a tiered of the Code.
The Committee to participate in the Annual General management structure with clearly Mr A J Habgood, continues to act met on five occasions during Meeting, are invited to ask questions defined lines of responsibility and in the capacity of Chief Executive.
Further details of the at the Meeting and are given the delegation of authority to the The Board recognises the concerns, Remuneration Committee, opportunity to meet the directors appropriate level of management: expressed in a general context, the Companys remuneration informally.
Notice of the Annual about the possible negative policy and how it is applied General Meeting is sent to clearly defined authorisation effects of a concentration of power are set out in the Directors shareholders at least 20 working procedures for capital investment through a combined Chairman and Remuneration Report on days before the Meeting.
and acquisitions: Chief Executive role but believes pages 32 to 37.
The terms these do not presently apply of reference of the Committee Internal control strategic plans which are prepared to the Company for a variety are available on the The directors acknowledge that annually by the business areas of reasons.
The Board has Companys website.
they have overall responsibility for and approved by the Board: 2 Bunzl plc comprehensive budgets which the internal audit department continually monitored by Group are prepared annually by the periodically reviews individual management in association business areas and approved businesses and procedures, with external advisers.
by the Board: makes recommendations to improve controls and follows The directors confirm that they formal standards of business up to ensure that management have reviewed the effectiveness conduct including a code implement the recommendations of the system of internal control of ethics based on honesty, made.
The internal audit in operation during 2003. integrity and fair dealing: departments work is determined on a risk assessment basis a well established consolidation and their findings are reported and reporting system for the to Group and business statutory accounts and monthly area management: management accounts: and the external auditors are engaged a detailed procedures manual to express an opinion on the covering treasury operations.
They review and test the system of internal Some of the procedures carried financial control and the data out in order to monitor the contained in the financial effectiveness of the internal statements to the extent control system are listed below: necessary for expressing their audit opinion on the truth and central management holds fairness of the financial statements: regular meetings with business area management to discuss every six months the Audit strategic, operational and financial Committee, which is chaired issues including a review of by Mr J F Harris, the senior the significant risks affecting independent non-executive each of the business areas director, reviews the findings and the policies and of the external and internal procedures by which these auditors and approves the risks are managed: future work plans of the internal audit function: an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chairman and regular meetings are held with the Finance Director and other insurance and risk advisers functional managers, meets to assess the risks throughout twice per month and reviews the Group: the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings the Group Health and on internal control issues: Safety Committee sets relevant policies on health and safety the Board in turn reviews the issues, based on the special outcome of the Executive advice of the Technical Committee discussions on Sub-Committee, and monitors internal control issues which their implementation: ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress actual results are reviewed against objectives established monthly against budget, by each business area are forecasts and the previous periodically carried out: year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: the Group Environment Committee periodically reviews the Groups bank balances environmental practices across around the world are monitored the Group: and on a weekly basis and significant movements are developments in tax, reviewed centrally: treasury and accounting are Bunzl plc 3
