Report of the Audit Committee Continued of interest and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities auditors, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board services by the external auditors.
that the external auditors are re-appointed.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee Internal Audit function reviewed: The Audit Committee is required to assist the Group Board to full its the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan and variations responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the from the plan Internal Audit department.
To full these duties, the Committee reviewed the the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the Internal Audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the Audit key accounting and audit judgements Committee and all members of the Board, its plans and its achievement of the content of the external auditors management letter the planned activity.
The results of key audits and other significant findings, 36 the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of resolution To full its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the Audit are reviewed by the Committee as well as the statistics on staff numbers, Committee reviewed: qualications and experience and timeliness of reporting.
The Committee also the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the reviews the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by Internal Audit.
audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the The Groups Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Group Chief forthcoming year Internal Auditor to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the external auditors fee proposal the Audit Committee as appropriate.
the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution the key accounting and audit judgements The Audit Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors and the levels of errors identied during the audit with the Group Chief Internal Auditor after each Committee meeting to the recommendations made by the external auditors in their management review key issues within their spheres of interest and responsibility.
letter and the adequacy of managements response.
Report of the Nominations Committee The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and comprises all The Committee keeps under review the leadership needs of the organisation, the non-executive directors.
The meetings may be attended by executive both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued directors, as appropriate.
ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments and Activities makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on succession for All members of the Committee are independent, non-executive directors.
executive directors, the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the The Chairman does not chair the Nominations Committee when it is dealing conclusion of their specified term of ofce, any matter relating to the with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship, in which case the continuation in ofce of any director at any time and the appointment of Committee is chaired by the Vice Chairman and Senior Independent any director to executive or other ofce.
The Committee met four times during 2003.
Corporate Website Duties The terms of reference of the Committee, which sets out the role and the The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval authority delegated to it by the Board, are available for inspection at the of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Companys registered ofce and can be viewed on the Companys website.
Before making an appointment, the Committee evaluates the balance of The formal letter of appointment of non-executive directors are also skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and can be evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for viewed on the Companys website, www.
The Committee reviews annually the time required from a non-executive director.
The annual performance evaluation is used to assess whether the non-executive director is spending enough time to full his duties.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The Committee uses external advisers to facilitate searches for potential candidates.
The Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and, if appropriate, makes recommendations for change to the Board.
In this respect, the Committee has regard to the results of the annual performance evaluation.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Audit Committee
