Report of the Audit Committee Summary of the role of the Audit Committee the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses, The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive environmental and social responsibility best practices.
directors of Legal & General Group Plc.
It is a Committee of the Board established pursuant to Article 107 of the Articles of Association.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet four times per year and has an The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The agenda is the Combined Code, except the oversight of compliance risks, including predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the Audit Committee adherence to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, which is the Chairman on behalf of his fellow members: each Audit Committee member responsibility of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee.
The terms of has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then cyclical items.
referred to the Group Board for approval.
35 The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group Director The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of Finance, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal Auditor, Group Directors in fullling its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting Actuary and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all and associated announcements: the independence of the Groups external of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these auditors: the resourcing and plans of the Internal Audit department: the individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to present adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment: and the Groups such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
compliance with The Combined Code : Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
The four Committee meetings held during the year were attended by all Audit Committee members.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to Group documents and its duties information, as well as to employees of the Group and the external auditor.
In order to full its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives and challenges presentations or reports from the Groups senior management, Composition of the Audit Committee consulting as necessary with the external auditors and the independent The members of the Audit Committee are: actuaries.
Date of appointment The Audit Committee is required to assist the Group Board to full its responsibilities relating to external financial reporting and associated Barrie Morgans 5 March 1998 announcements.
The Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial 12 December 2001 as Chairman statements, together with the Stock Exchange announcements, having Frances Heaton 14 November 2001 received information on the accounting principles, policies and practices Tim Parker 22 July 2002 adopted in the Groups accounts: changes proposed to those principles, Sir David Walker 22 July 2003 21 January 2004 policies and practices: significant accounting issues: current actuarial issues: James Strachan 21 January 2004 the level of insurance provisions and reserves: litigation and contingent Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the liabilities affecting the Group: potential tax contingencies and the Groups Committee, Barrie Morgans, and the Group Chairman, who is not a member compliance with statutory tax obligations.
of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals.
They recommend new The Audit Committee is required to assist the Group Board to full its appointments to the Nominations Committee for onward recommendation to responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control the Board.
Appointments are for a period of three years and are extendable environment and the Groups compliance with The Combined Code: by no more than two additional three year periods.
The Committee is Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
To full these normally comprised of four independent non-executive directors.
Three duties, the Committee reviewed: members constitute a quorum.
the Groups Risk Framework and risk policies The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one nancially the minutes of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee meetings qualied member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of the external auditors annual Internal Control Report Accountancy Bodies, currently the Audit Committee Chairman, and expects Internal Audit reports on key audit areas and significant control all Audit Committee members to be nancially literate and have relevant environment deficiencies corporate finance experience.
The expertise and experience of the reports on the systems of internal controls and risk management members of the Committee are summarised on page 25. reports on frauds perpetrated against the Group and current fraud trends The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee The Audit Committee Chairman reports back to the Committee on the Group members and ongoing training to enable all of the Committee members to Risk and Compliance Committee meetings carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment by The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation members and an overview of the Groups business, including the main and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The Audit Committee business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity meet some of the Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes attendance at and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
It has assigned internal Group seminars and briengs by external advisers.
that day-to-day responsibility to the Group Director Finance.
The policy states that the external auditors are jointly responsible to the Group Board The Board expects Audit Committee members to have an understanding of and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
the following areas: The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit the principles of, contents of, and developments in, financial reporting, service that the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the including the applicable accounting standards and statements of Group.
The policy requires pre-conrmation by the Audit Committee of any recommended practice, non-audit work subject to fide minimis levels.
Pre-conrmation is not required key aspects of the Companys approach, including corporate policies, for those subsidiaries excluded from consolidation as detailed in Note 30 ii.
company nancing, products and systems of internal control, matters that inuence or distort the presentation of accounts and To full its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, key gures, the Audit Committee reviewed the changes in key external audit staff in the the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specic external auditors plan for the current year: the arrangements for day-to-day laws and other relevant corporate legislation, management of the audit relationship: a report from the external auditors the role of internal and external auditing and risk management, describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conicts Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Audit Committee
