Corporate Governance The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions appointment of new Board directors.
In doing so, it considers the composition of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 1998 of the Board, the demands made on the Board and its committees and the the Combined Code, as annexed to the listing rules of the Markets requirements of good corporate governance.
The Report of the Nominations Division of the Financial Services Authority FSA except in respect of the Committee is set out on page 36. publication of proxy votes at the Annual General Meeting AGM, which is referred to below.
Group Risk and Compliance Committee The GRCC is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and comprises senior The Board managers drawn from across the Group and meets monthly.
Its primary role The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews its is to ensure there are appropriate processes in place across the Group to operating and financial position.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters identify, assess, monitor and control critical risks facing the Group, including 26 specically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the Board itself regulatory risks.
It reports regularly to the Group Board and its minutes are and which is reviewed annually.
The Board meets at least 11 times during available to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee the year.
Directors Audit Committee Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board on the The Audit Committee is chaired by Barrie Morgans.
Frances Heaton, recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
New directors have a formal Tim Parker and James Strachan are its other members.
It met four times induction programme.
The Board and its directors are subject to annual during the year to: appraisal.
The aim is to improve both individual contributions and group review and advise the Board on the Groups interim and annual financial achievement.
The appraisal is facilitated by an external consultant, culminating statements, its accounting policies, and on the control of its financial and in individual directors interviews with the Chairman in the case of the business risks, Chairman, the interview is conducted by the Vice Chairman.
A full report review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the is provided to the Board and consequent actions are agreed.
All directors external and internal auditors, the results of that work and managements submit themselves for re-election at AGMs at least once every three years.
response: and There is a continuing training programme for directors and senior managers make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the which is approved by the Nominations Committee.
In 2003 it included external auditors and review the non-audit services provided to the Group educational and business awareness programmes.
The majority of the Board are independent, non-executive directors The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and management, with a wide business experience and whose remuneration consists only of as well as privately with both external and internal auditors.
They have access to all information relating to the Group, the advice reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
and services of the Group Secretary and, as required, external advice at the expense of the Group.
At the end of 2003 there were nine The Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 35 to 36. non-executive directors.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Internal control Group Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control directors are clearly dened, so as to give no individual unfettered powers of systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
The Vice Chairman the Senior Independent Director and the other maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the non-executive directors are independent.
executive directors and senior management.
The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee and boards There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of subsidiary companies.
of new directors to the Board.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast performance of its its duties.
businesses compared with their one year plans, as well as other key performance indicators.
Relations with shareholders Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly dened.
The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good relationships The Groups control policies and procedures are set out in an operating with shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
manual, which is regularly updated and distributed throughout the Group.
However, care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information Executive directors are required to confirm compliance with these policies is released at the same time to all shareholders, institutional and private, throughout the year.
The results of this conrmation process are reported in accordance with the requirements of both the FSA and the London to the Audit Committee.
The arrangements for establishing policies in respect of the key risks The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate to the Group are set out below.
Board members, including the chairmen of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees, attend the meeting and The Chairman and Group Chief Executive oversee the policies for are available to answer questions.
employee selection, assessment and development and have direct involvement in senior management appointments.
Succession planning In order that shareholders present are aware of the other shareholders and contingency arrangements are in place for senior management voting intentions, the details of proxy votes are distributed immediately prior and have been reviewed by the Board.
The Group seeks to conduct to the AGM.
business in accordance with ethical principles and there is guidance for employees on the standards required.
Board Committees The Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC and the Audit Committee are standing Review of internal control committees of the Board.
The role and operation of the Remuneration The Combined Code requires directors to review and report to shareholders Committee is set out in the Directors Report on Remuneration on pages on the Groups internal control systems, which include financial, operational 29 to 34. and compliance controls, and risk management.
Established procedures, including those already described, are in place Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems on the basis of: is composed of all non-executive directors.
It is responsible for proposing the Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance regular reports by management to their main operating boards, and the Committee Role Membership Audit Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control Group Credit To set limits for the Group Director Finance systems and significant control issues: Committee Groups exposure to Group Director Investments the GRCCs review of the continuous group-wide process for formally any single counterGroup Treasurer identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the party failure and to achievement of the Groups objectives: manage exposures compliance reports and presentations from the Head of Compliance on, within these at least, a quarterly basis: and established limits.
presentations of the results of internal audits to the Audit Committee by the Group Chief Internal Auditor.
Group Asset To ensure that Group Director Finance & Liability the Groups assets Group Director Investments 27 The Board takes regular account of the signicance of social, environmental Committee ALCO and liabilities are Group Actuary and ethical matters to the businesses of the Group.
The GRCCs review of the appropriately Appointed Actuary significant risks to the Group includes these matters.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which is chaired by the Director Resources and International, is set out on pages 22 to 23.
Group Pricing To ensure that products Group Director & Insurance Risk are appropriately Product and Corporate The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than Committee designed and priced eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide and that appropriate Group Actuary reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement processes are in place Appointed Actuary or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board has to identify, assess, Director UK Finance regard to materiality and to the relationship between the cost of, and benefit monitor and, where from, internal control systems.
deemed appropriate, The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, operational and compliance reinsure risk.
controls, and the risk management process, are reported to the Board.
The Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control systems had been maintained throughout the year.
In addition, Risk & Compliance Committees RCCs are in place for each of the main operational business units of the Group.
These committees are Internal Audit predominantly responsible for the management of operational risks and Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which systems of regulation.
RCCs formally report both to their operating boards and to the internal control are effective: are adequate to manage business risk: GRCC on a monthly basis.
safeguard the Groups resources: and ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk and control Risk Assessment Processes to senior management and the Board.
A continuous group-wide process is in place for formally identifying, Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement of the as determined by a structured risk assessment process involving executive Groups objectives.
A standard approach is used to assess risks.
Risk Review directors and senior managers.
The output from this process is summarised Functions and senior management review the output of assessments.
in a plan which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief A Group-wide Risk Assessment process is used to provide determination Internal Auditor reports regularly to the Group Chief Executive and to the of key risks within the Group reported to the GRCC.
Risk Review Functions Compliance Group and rm level Risk Review Functions provide oversight of risk The Group Compliance function is responsible for oversight of the Groups management within the Group.
Their responsibilities include the evaluation compliance with regulatory requirements and standards.
This encompasses of changes in the business operating environment and business processes, the provision of policy advice and guidance to the regulated rms, oversight the assessment of these changes on risks to business and monitoring of regulated rms compliance arrangements to assess whether rms have mitigating actions.
Functions also ensure that risk committees are provided appropriate systems, procedures and controls in place to manage their with meaningful risk reports and that there is appropriate information to permitted regulatory activities, and oversight of regulatory risks arising from assess risk issues.
Details of the categories of risk to the Group and high-level management processes are set out below.
The Group has dened policies for the Management of Risk management of its key risks, adherence to which is monitored by Risk Review The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to Insurance, Functions and independently confirmed by Group Internal Audit.
The GRCC Market, Credit, Liquidity and Operational risks.
Overall responsibility for the annually reviews and approves these policies.
management of these risks is vested in the Group Board.
To support it in this role, a risk framework is in place comprising formal committees, risk assessment processes and review functions.
The framework provides Insurance Risk assurance that risks are being appropriately identied and managed Insurance risk is the risk arising from higher claims being experienced than and that an independent assessment of risks is being performed.
was anticipated when the premium, bonus rates and surrender value levels were set.
Committee Structure Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business arising as Oversight of risk management framework is performed on behalf of the a consequence of the type and volume of new business written, the Group Board by its sub-committee, the GRCC.
In order to provide more concentration of risk in particular policies or groups of policies subject detailed management of credit, market, liquidity and insurance risks across to the same risks.
the Group, the following sub-committees of the GRCC are in place: The Group controls its insurance exposures through underwriting and pricing authorities which set out the risks which may be accepted.
Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance exposures are further limited through reinsurance.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Continued Reinsurance may be used to reduce potential loss to the Group from Contagion Risk individual large risks and catastrophic events.
It may also be used to manage The occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in contagion risk capital or to provide access to specialist underwriting expertise.
Reinsurance elsewhere in the Group.
Such matters are assessed and monitored by the GRCC.
is predominantly ceded by treaties which automatically cover a proportion of all risks meeting prescribed criteria.
Prudential regulation and the Appointed Actuary The principal General Insurance reinsurances are excess of loss catastrophe Most of the activities of the Group relate to businesses which are subject to treaties, under which the excess of accumulation of claims from an event, prudential regulation and require management to operate in a sound and above an agreed retention level, is recovered from reinsurers.
In the UK, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 the retention for 2004 is 30m 2003: 25m and this represents the maximum net Act has established the FSA as the regulator for most Group operations.
The probable loss from any one event within our principal household account.
Act, in particular, requires long term insurance business to be written within 28 long term insurance funds, for which the actuaries appointed under the Act The Pricing & Insurance Risk Committee has oversight for the management have certain legal accountabilities.
Appointed actuaries are subject to the of insurance risk across the Group.
disciplines of professional conduct and guidance and have a reporting relationship to the directors of the relevant insurance company and to the Market Risk FSA.
They have access to their boards and must report fully and impartially Market risk is the risk arising from uctuations in interest and exchange rates on the financial condition of the funds, annually quantifying and conrming and market valuations which may affect assets, liabilities and the mismatch each funds liabilities and solvency position.
The FSA receives a copy of these between the two.
The report of the Appointed Actuary for the UK long term fund is subject to a peer review by an external actuary.
The ALCO establishes investment policies for shareholders and policyholders funds on the basis of sound asset liability management principles.
Going concern The investment policies for long term and other business have due regard to The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern the nature of liabilities and guarantees and other embedded options given basis consistent with their view, formed after making appropriate enquiries, to policyholders.
The interest rate risk of such liabilities is normally managed that the Group is operationally and nancially robust.
by investing in assets of similar duration, where possible.
It is further managed by maintaining capital sufficient to cover the consequences of mismatch under a number of adverse scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
The Group is also potentially exposed to loss as a result of uctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated in foreign currencies.
Balance sheet foreign exchange currency translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Group Board, which allows between 25% and 75% of net foreign currency assets to be hedged.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Credit risk is not sought in its own right.
However, the investment of shareholders and policyholders monies requires credit risks to be taken.
Exposure to credit risk also arises in the reinsurance of insurance contracts.
Credit risk is managed through the setting and regular review of detailed counterparty credit and concentration limits.
Compliance with these limits for investment and treasury transactions is monitored daily.
The Group Credit Committee oversees these processes.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost.
A degree of liquidity risk is implicit in the Groups businesses.
Liquidity risk arises as a consequence of the uncertainty surrounding the value and timing of cash ows.
The Groups Treasury function manages liquidity to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net cash outows over a period of two years.
The Group ALCO oversees the management of liquidity risk.
Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The Group identies and assesses operational risk as part of its continuous risk assessment processes.
RCCs ensure that appropriate policies and procedures are in place for these risks and that they are properly controlled.
There are detailed procedures covering specic areas of operational risk.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance
