CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Subject to the comments below regarding the the interim and annual results, as well as any independence of the senior non-executive director matters raised by the auditors.
It also reviews the and of a member of the Remuneration Committee, adequacy and effectiveness of the key systems the Companys Board is satisfied that it has of internal control and monitors the efficiency complied with the provisions of the Combined and independence of the internal audit function.
Code Principles of Good Governance and Code The Committee reviews the Companys financial of Best Practice the Combined Code during the statements and makes recommendations year ended 31 March 2003.
The Companys regarding their approval by the Board as a whole.
Board believes that these exceptions are justified In order to ensure an appropriate balance between given the wide experience and calibre of the two cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence, non-executive directors concerned.
the Audit Committee also reviews the nature of all services provided by the external auditors each Board of directors year.
Factors taken into consideration include: At 31 March 2003, the Board comprised nine cost, appropriate use of the auditors existing non-executive directors, including the Chairman business knowledge and their procedures for and Deputy Chairman and three executive ensuring compliance with professional and directors.
Of the non-executive directors, Gary regulatory requirements.
The Company normally Allen, Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul, Nigel Stapleton expects to retain the external auditors to provide and Robert Webb QC are considered to have audit related services, including work in relation been fully independent during the year within the to shareholder and other circulars and transaction meaning of the Combined Code.
The senior nonrelated work, and certain tax and similar services.
executive director, who is not regarded as being The external auditors have provided no general independent, is Ian Salter.
consulting or internal audit services during the year.
On 1 May 2003, Chris Gibson-Smith joined The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Board as an independent non-executive Don Cruickshank and comprises four other director.
He will take over as Chairman from Don non-executive directors.
The Committee meets Cruickshank following the AGM on 16 July 2003. as necessary to make recommendations to The Board has six scheduled meetings a year the Board on all new Board appointments.
and meets more frequently as required.
Don Cruickshank deferred to Ian Salter for the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive appointment of Chris Gibson-Smith as his are distinct and separate with a clear division successor as Chairman.
Internal control Directors serving on the Boards committees The Board confirms that procedures have been are identified on the Board of Directors pages in place throughout the year and up to the date 28 and 29. of this report which comply fully with the guidance The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Nigel Stapleton and comprises three other Combined Code published by the Internal non-executive directors.
One member of the Control Working Party of the Institute of Committee is not regarded as being independent Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and, in this respect, the Company does not in September 1999. comply fully with the Combined Code.
The The Companys systems of internal control over Committee has written terms of reference and business, operational, financial and compliance meets at least twice a year to review and present risks are designed to help the Company meet its recommendations to the Board regarding business objectives by appropriately managing, remuneration and conditions of service of the rather than eliminating, the risks to those Chairman, Chief Executive and executive directors, objectives.
The controls can only provide including the grant of entitlements under the reasonable, not absolute, assurance against Companys share schemes.
A separate material misstatement or loss.
Remuneration report is set out on pages 32 to 39.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the The Audit Committee is chaired by Gary Allen systems of internal control and, through the and comprises four other non-executive directors.
Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness It has written terms of reference and meets at of the systems.
The Board is committed to their least twice a year, normally with the external continual enhancement.
auditors present, to consider the audit plan and 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 The principal features of the Companys control Relations with shareholders framework are described under the following The Company conducts regular dialogue headings: with institutional investors, holding meetings throughout the year in the UK and on overseas Delegation of authority matters reserved visits.
Communication with shareholders also for Board approval only are clearly defined.
takes place by way of annual and interim reports, Executive directors have general responsibility quarterly trading updates and through the for making and implementing operational presentation of preliminary and interim results, decisions and for overseeing the Companys which are made accessible to all investors by business.
webcasts available on the Company website.
Planning and reporting the Board approves A range of other information and services strategic decisions and the budget for the for shareholders is provided on the Investor forthcoming year and receives a report on key Relations section of our website at: business matters from the Chief Executive at www.
com, which was each meeting.
Monthly reports to management recently revised to improve accessibility of data.
contain key performance indicators and The Annual General Meeting AGM provides compare actual financial performance with the the opportunity for shareholders to question the annual budget or forecast.
Management action Board and meet informally after the event.
The is taken where variances arise and revised procedures for the AGM are compliant with the forecasts are prepared on a regular basis.
Combined Code and the event is normally Audit Committee the Companys internal attended by all Directors.
audit department reports to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of key risk Health, safety and the environment management and internal control procedures The Companys approach to health, safety and and appropriate action is taken where the environment is set out in our Corporate and necessary.
The Audit Committee also receives Social Responsibility statement on page 25. reports from the Companys external auditors.
Risk management effective risk management is the responsibility of all line managers and each business area continuously updates and evaluates its documented key risks and controls.
Periodic reports confirming the effectiveness of all significant control policies and procedures are produced by management and reviewed by the most senior executive in each business area.
The Companys internal audit department reviews these reports and independently summarises any significant matters arising for the Audit Committee.
During the year, the Company introduced new risk management software, improving the visibility, monitoring and evaluation of risk across all business areas.
Detailed procedures procedures and controls for key business areas including the Companys finance function are set out in detailed departmental manuals.
These are reviewed and kept up-to-date to meet changing business needs.
