Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board meets at least five times a year and between these governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager.
corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an The directors also have access to the advice and services of the investment trust and which enables the Company to comply company secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with Practice the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on applicable rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the Corporate Governance, published in June 1998. furtherance of their duties, the directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company throughout this accounting period, and this statement describes keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Company.
which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
It is the Boards responsibility to A revised Combined Code and the AITC Code of Corporate present a balanced and understandable assessment which Governance were issued in July 2003.
The revised Combined extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
Code is effective for financial years starting on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board is in the process of reviewing and The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the applying the additional requirements.
The Financial Services Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Authority issued the Investment Entities Listing Rules and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board has Conduct of Business Instrument 2003 in September 2003 and delegated the following areas of responsibility: the Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report to ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
Management and administration The management of the investment portfolio and the The Board administration of the Company have been delegated to the The Board currently consists of six non-executive directors, the Investment Manager and its subsidiary companies.
Custody and majority of whom are independent of the Companys settlement services are provided by The Bank of New York Investment Manager.
This, in the Boards opinion, includes Europe Limited BNYE, a subsidiary of The Bank of New York.
Messrs Wilmot-Sitwell and Buxton, despite their length of service.
This independence allows them all to sit on the The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching Companys various committees, with the exception of Mr Barby, to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment who, as a non-independent director, does not sit on the Audit & Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers voting policy are Management Engagement Committee.
Their biographies, on set out on page 18.
The consent of the Chairman of the Board page 16, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business is sought prior to the Investment Manager voting against experience.
The structure of the Board is such that it is incumbent management in respect of any stock held in the considered unnecessary to identify a senior non-executive portfolio.
The Investment Manager reports any contentious director other than the Chairman.
The Board is supplied in a issues at each Board meeting.
timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Strategic issues Board Committees and all operational matters of a material nature are determined The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the Nomination and by the Board.
Directors Remuneration Committees, both of which meet when necessary, the first to select and propose suitable candidates for The directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General appointment and the second to review directors remuneration.
Meeting AGM and any directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also retire and stand for election.
Another committee, separately chaired, the Audit and Directors retire at the first AGM after they reach the age of 70 Management Engagement Committee has been established, and generally do not seek re-election.
which is made up by a majority of the Board.
This Committee, which has written terms of reference detailing its scope and Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 21 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued duties, meets at least twice a year and, amongst other things, The Board and the Investment Manager have agreed clearly examines the effectiveness of the control systems.
The defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Committee also reviews the interim and annual reports, receives exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance information from the Investment Managers corporate audit and statistics and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board compliance departments and regularly reviews the terms of the at each meeting.
The Investment Managers evaluation investment management and administration contracts.
The procedure and financial analysis of the companies within the Committee reviews the scope, results, cost effectiveness, portfolio includes detailed research and appraisal, and also takes independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
into account environmental policies and other business issues.
Membership of the Board Committees The controls and procedures of the Investment Manager are monitored by its corporate audit and compliance departments, Audit and Management Nomination and Directors who report to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also Engagement Committee Remuneration Committees receives a report from BNYE on the internal controls of its Andrew Buxton Peter Wilmot-Sitwell custodial operations.
Chairman Chairman Colin Buchan Ian Barby The Board recognises that these control systems can only be Adam Fleming Colin Buchan designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Gordon Sage Andrew Buxton achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and Peter Wilmot-Sitwell Adam Fleming relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Gordon Sage Manager and BNYE.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Company Financial statements and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring that financial The Board is also required to ensure that the financial information published or used within the business is reliable, and statements give a true and fair view of the affairs of the for regularly monitoring compliance with regulations governing Company as at the end of each financial year and of the profit the operation of investment trusts.
The Board continuously reviews of the Company for that period.
the effectiveness of the internal control system, which has been in place throughout the year, and up to the date of this report.
The Board considers that in preparing the financial statements on pages 25 to 38, the Company has used appropriate As part of the Boards responsibility for the internal control accounting policies, consistently applied except as disclosed system, an ongoing process has been established in conjunction and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and with the Investment Manager for identifying, evaluating and estimates and that all accounting standards that it considers to managing the Companys significant risks.
Control of the risks be applicable have been followed.
identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the operations of the Investment The Board believes it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Manager and BNYE.
There is a monitoring and reporting process basis in preparing the financial statements, as the assets of the to review these controls, which has been in place throughout Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
the year under review, carried out by the Investment Managers corporate audit department.
The Investment Manager reports to Relations with shareholders the Company on its review of internal controls, which include All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to attend and checks on the custodian, formally on a semi-annual basis and vote at the AGM.
The Notice of the AGM sets out the business verbally at each Board and Audit Committee meeting.
of the Meeting and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the directors report.
Separate resolutions are The Investment Manager prepares revenue forecasts and proposed for substantive issues.
management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
In addition, the Investment Manager reviews the Companys activities at the AGM, where both the Board and representatives 22 Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities continued of the Investment Manager are available to answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting figures are announced to the shareholders at the AGM.
The Investment Manager holds discussions with shareholders, the feedback from which is greatly valued by the Board.
There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder Information, on pages 41 to 43, which provides an overview of useful information available to shareholders.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 23
