Statement of Corporate Governance The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to comply with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Statement describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code have been applied by the Company throughout the year to 30 June 2003 except where disclosed below.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the forty-five Combined Code provisions throughout the year.
Apart from the exceptions outlined below, the Company has complied throughout the year ended 30 June 2003 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The exceptions to compliance with the Combined Code, which are explained more fully under the headings of The Board and Directors remuneration, were as follows: a senior non-executive Director has not been appointed.
as the Company is an investment trust and all the Directors are non-executive, the Company is exempt from complying with the twenty-one provisions relating to Executive Directors remuneration under Listing Rule 21.20 i.
The Board The Board consists of five Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent of the investment manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The biographies of the Directors appear on pages 3 to 5 of this report and indicate their range of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
The Board meets at least five times a year and between these meetings maintains regular contact with the Manager.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters including gearing, asset allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies.
the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from analysis of investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis.
Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the interim and annual financial statements and approval and recommendation of the interim and final dividends respectively.
Board appointments and removals and the related terms.
Appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms and conditions of the management and administration agreements relating thereto.
Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
26 Murray Income Trust PLC Statement of Corporate Governance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed, as all the Directors are non-executive.
The Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
All Directors have attended every Board meeting and Committee meeting held during the year with the following exceptions: Ms Marian Glen was appointed a Director on 11 February 2003 and has attended all meetings held since her appointment.
Sir David Trippier was unable to attend one Meeting of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee due to illness.
Mr Roger Adams attended one Meeting of the Board, prior to his resignation in August 2002.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including the Managers review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
External agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the Manager and other service providers, certain services: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Committees Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the full Board, all of whom are independent and free of any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities.
The chairman of the Committee is the Chairman of the Company.
The number of meetings held during the year was 2.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the following matters: The identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried out by an independent firm of consultants: Plans for succession: The re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance The re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: The continuation in office of any Director at any time: and: The appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the position of Chairman, the recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
As a result of the resignation of Mr Roger Adams, on the grounds of ill health, it was decided to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The Committee approved the appointment as a Director, on 11 February 2003, of Ms Marian Glen.
As Head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn solicitors Edinburgh, the Committee considered that her knowledge and experience of the financial services industry would enhance the combined experience of the Board.
The Committee further recommended to the Board the nomination for re-election of Sir David Trippier and Mr Adrian Coats for the following reasons: Sir David Trippier - Sir David, who has been a Director since October 1995, was an MP from 1979 to 1992.
During that time he held a number of ministerial posts.
Since leaving Parliament, Sir David has concentrated on his business interests, which include W H Ireland & Co Stockbrokers.
His experience both as an MP and as a stockbroker are greatly valued by the Committee and are considered to help in broadening and enhancing the combined experience of the Board.
Mr Adrian Coats - Mr Adrian Coats, who has been a Director since January 1999, is a chartered accountant and director of treasury for Scottish Power.
His experience in financial matters is greatly valued by his fellow Directors and consequently he was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 July 2003.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprising the full Board, all of who are independent and free of any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities.
Mr A J M Coats has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since 1 July 2003.
Prior to that date, Mr Blaise Hardman was the Chairman of the Committee as well as the Chairman of the Company.
The number of meetings held during the year was three.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
This Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company and receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis.
The Committee is responsible for review of the annual accounts and interim report, terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors, reviewing the scope and the results of the audit and the objectivity of the Auditors it should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP rotate the partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The Audit Committee also meets with representatives of the Manager.
Management Engagement Committee The full Board comprises the Management Engagement Committee, the Chairman of which is the Chairman of the Company.
It annually reviews matters concerning the management contract which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Remuneration Committee and Directors remuneration Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 21.20 i, where an investment trust has only non-executive Directors, the code principles relating to Directors remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board and whose Chairman is the Chairman of the Company.
The Committee met once during the year ended 30 June 2003.
28 Murray Income Trust PLC Statement of Corporate Governance The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future development of the Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 19 and 20.
Directors terms of appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director who reaches the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray Income are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Directions enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Directions is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 19 and 20 and in the Directors Report on pages 21 to 25.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event at which all Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The amount of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free Shareholder information telephone service run by the Manager and the Company and the Manager responds to letters from Shareholders.
A website from which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
co. uk Accountability and audit The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is on page 31 and the statement of going concern is included in the Directors Report on page 25.
The Independent Auditors Report is on pages 32 and 33.
Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance Internal control The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the particular risks to which the Company is exposed and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, that has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Companys assets to the Manager and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the TurnbuIl guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Internal Audit function of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The Companys Audit Committee agenda includes an item for the consideration of risk and control and receives reports thereon from the Audit Committee of the Manager.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the best financial interests of the Companys Shareholders.
They acknowledge that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the Directors, therefore, ensure that the Company takes regular account of the social environment and ethical factors, which may affect the performance or value of particular investments.
It assesses the risks and opportunities associated with such holdings.
Exercise of voting powers The Directors believe that the exercise of voting rights at company meetings lies at the heart of the regulation and promotion of corporate governance.
The Board has, therefore, instructed the Manager to vote its portfolio shareholdings at all general meetings, in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
