Investor Relations Murray Income Trust PLC contributes to the Investor Relations Programme run by the Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management.
This Companys contribution is matched by Aberdeen over its three-year length and is 384,000 plus VAT a year.
The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively with existing Shareholders and gain more new shareholders, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
Aberdeens experience has also shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by Aberdeen, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: Investor relations programme Aberdeen runs an Investor Relations Programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on your Company that includes detailed performance analysis.
Group schemes The Manager offers both a group Share Plan and ISA.
These schemes allow investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal exit charges, and have proved popular with private investors.
Direct response advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of the Company in selected national broadsheets as well as the specialist financial press.
Direct mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other Aberdeen investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by Aberdeen is distributed free of charge at least twice a year.
Public relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder services Aberdeen runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Investor Relations Programme is under the direction of Aberdeens Investment Trust Marketing Director, who has seventeen years experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by a team of three marketing professionals.
Internet Murray Income Trust PLC has its own dedicated web site, at http: www.
This allows web users to access information on the Companys share price performance, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder base, improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the Investor Relations Programme.
The Head of Investor Relations Investment Trusts reports to the Board twice a year, and provides a written summary on a quarterly basis.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or performance, please telephone our Customer Services Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40 or the Broker Desk on 0800 592 487 Institutions and IFAs.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on inv.
com or write to us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
Murray Income Trust PLC 51 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 123 St Vincent Street, Glasgow, G2 5EA Telephone: 0141 306 7400 Fax: 0141 306 7401 Authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority Member of the Aberdeen Asset Management Group of Companies
