Statement of Corporate Governance The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to comply with the Combined Code published in 1998, which sets out the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
The Board has also reviewed the requirements of the new Combined Code, published in July 2003, although it is not obliged to do so until the year ending 31 December 2004, as it felt it was important to comply with the provisions as soon as practicably possible.
Consequently, the Board also explains where it does not comply with the provisions of the new Combined Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the provisions of the 1998 Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2003.
Save the exception outlined below, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
In addition, the Board reports on the areas of non-compliance with the new Combined Code.
The exceptions to compliance with the Combined Codes, which are explained more fully under the headings of The Board and Audit Committee in the Statement of Corporate Governance and in the Chairmans Statement, were as follows: a senior non-executive Director has not been appointed 1998 and 2003 Code Provision.
performance evaluation of the Board the explanation for non-compliance is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 11 2003 Code Provision.
the Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee the explanation for non-compliance is given in the Audit Committee on page 34 2003 Code Provision per Audit Committee Combined Code Appendix.
The Board The Board consists of five Directors all of whom during the year ended 31 December 2003, with the exception of Sir Raymond Johnstone, were considered to be independent of the investment manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
It should be noted that: Whilst Lady Balfour of Burleigh has a shared directorship with Sir Raymond Johnstone on the board of The Nuclear Generation Decommisioning Fund Limited, the Board considers her to be independent.
Sir Raymond Johnstone was, until 24 February 1992, the chairman of the former Manager, Murray Johnstone Limited which, in December 2000, became a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 3 to 5 of this report and indicate their high level and range of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience, within an international perspective.
During the year ended 31 December 2003, the Board met five times.
In future years, the Board will meet at least six times a year and in addition will hold a strategy meeting.
Between these meetings the Board maintains contact with the Manager.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies: the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from comparable investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis: Companies Act and listing rule requirements such as the approval of the interim and annual financial statements and approval and recommendation of the interim and final dividends respectively: Board appointments and removals and the related terms: Appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms and conditions of the management and administration agreements relating thereto: Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and Stock exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
32 Murray International Trust PLC When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed as all the Directors are non-executive and the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including the Managers Review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
The Board Meetings attended by each Director are contained in Your Board on pages 3 to 5.
Lady Balfour of Burleigh has attended all meetings held since her appointment on 30 September 2003.
External agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the Manager and other service providers, certain services: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Committees The constitution of the Committees changed during the year.
Up until 8 December 2003, the whole of the Board were members of all the Committees.
From 8 December 2003, the composition of the Committees is as shown below under the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for the Committees are available on request.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the following members, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr D H Benson Mr A C Shedden The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the following matters: The identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board.
Members of the Committee put forward candidates who are interviewed by the whole committee and then by the Board: Plans for succession: The reappointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: The re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: The continuation in office of any Director at any one time: and The appointment of any Director to another office e. g. a member of the Audit Committee other than to the position of Chairman, the appointment of whom would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
The Nomination Committee considered the appointment of a new Director put forward by members of the Board.
Following discussion, on 30 September 2003, the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment, as a Director, of Lady Balfour of Burleigh.
Her biography and experience are detailed on page 3.
It was considered that her knowledge and experience would broaden and enhance the combined experience and abilities of the Board.
The appointment was unanimously agreed by the Board.
Murray International Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Committee further recommended to the Board the nomination for re-election of Mr J F H Trott as his knowledge and wealth of experience and abilities as Chairman are greatly valued by his fellow Directors.
The Committee also recommended to the Board that Sir Raymond Johnstone be reappointed due to his expertise and experience and the significant contribution he continues to make to the Boards deliberations.
Two meetings of the Committee took place during the year, prior to the appointment of Lady Balfour of Burleigh.
All members attended both meetings.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee, which has held 2 meetings during the year attended by all members has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the following members, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr J F H Trott Mr Benson is a Director and serves on a number of Audit Committees of publicy listed companies in the United Kingdom and the United States where best practice is to limit the number of such appointments.
He is therefore, not currently a member of the Audit Committee.
The Board concluded that it was necessary to have at least three Committee members and as Sir Raymond Johnstone is not considered to be an independent non-executive Director, it was agreed that the Chairman of the Board, Mr J F H Trott should be appointed as a member of the Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
This Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company and receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis.
The Committee is responsible for review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the interim report, terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors, reviewing the scope and the results of the audit and the objectivity of the Auditors.
It should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The Audit Committee also meets with representatives of the Manager.
During the year the Committee conducted a thorough review of the Companys audit arrangements and concluded that the Board should recommend to Shareholders the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the Company.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the following members, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr D H Benson Mr A C Shedden It annually reviews matters concerning the management contract which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
The number of meetings held during the year was 1, which was attended by all member of the Committee.
Remuneration Committee and Directors remuneration Under the UK Listing Rule 21.20 i, where an investment trust has only nonexecutive Directors, the code principles relating to Directors remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the following members: Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee Mr D H Benson Sir Raymond Johnstone Mr A C Shedden 34 Murray International Trust PLC The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future development of the Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31.
The number of meetings held during the year was 1, attended by all members.
Directors terms of appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of Association also require that Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director who attains the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray International Trust are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee operators will be provided with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Participants in the Savings Plans, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the scheme or plan administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Directions enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Directions is forwarded to the administrator of the appropriate scheme, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are also sent an Interim Report, following the publication of the interim results in August each year.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31 and the Directors Report on pages 26 to 29.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event which private Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The amount of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free Shareholder information telephone service run by the parent Company of the Manager, and the Company or the Manager responds to letters from Shareholders.
During the year under review, the Chairman has attended meetings with major Shareholders and will continue to do so.
A website from which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
Accountability and audit The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements is on page 37 and the Statement of Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page 28.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 38.
Internal control The Board of Directors of Murray International Trust has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, which has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Murray International Trust PLC 35 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control, and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Company to the Manager within overall guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function, which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the Turnbull guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the annual audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Report are outlined below: The Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance: The Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: As a matter of course the compliance department of AAM continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: and Twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carry out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end.
The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Manager votes against resolutions that it considers might damage Shareholders rights or economic interests.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited gives due weight to what it considers to be socially responsible investment when making investment decisions, but the overriding objective is to produce good investment returns for Shareholders.
Exercise of voting powers The Company has operated a corporate governance voting policy which, in summary, is based on the governance recommendations of the Combined Code with the intention of voting in accordance with best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
In the case of the Companys investments, the Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Investment Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
