19 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Statement Cairn believes that the principal New directors receive a full, formal report the overall results of this function of all its directors is to direct and tailored induction on joining the evaluation to the Board to ensure any the wealth creation process and the Board and the Company provides the required improvements are management of related risks, and to necessary resources for developing implemented.
do so with high standards of and updating its directors knowledge corporate governance.
The Board evaluation and review governance process is carried out process also considers the against the background of Cairns The Board currently comprises the independence of non-executive particular business and strategy.
Chief Executive, four other executive directors, taking into account their The directors are accountable to directors and five independent nonintegrity, objectivity and contribution shareholders for good governance executive directors, including the to the Board and its committees.
In and, in accordance with the Listing Chairman.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy particular, the process has considered Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Chairman, is Cairns senior the independence of Hamish Grossart Authority the Listing Rules, this independent non-executive director.
and Mark Tyndall and resolutions will statement describes how the The directors biographies are on be proposed at the AGM for their reprinciples of good governance set out page 17. election as directors.
in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Hampel Committee in The division of responsibilities Mr Grossart has served on the Board 1998 and appended to the Listing between the Chairman and the Chief for more than nine years.
The Board, Rules were applied by the Cairn Executive have been clearly after rigorous review, considers that Group throughout the financial year.
established, set out in writing and he remains independent in character have been agreed by the Board.
The review process A new Combined Code was also enables the Chairman to confirm published by the Financial Reporting The Board maintains overall control that Mr Grossarts performance Council during 2003, which will apply over financial, strategic, budgetary continues to be effective and that he for financial years beginning on or and organisational issues.
All directors demonstrates continued commitment after 1 November 2003.
Following are equally accountable for the proper to the role.
publication of the new Combined stewardship of the Groups affairs.
Code, we have undertaken a The non-executive directors have a In addition, Mark Tyndall is an thorough review of our corporate particular responsibility to ensure that executive director and Hamish governance policies.
The Board will the strategies proposed by the Grossart a non-executive director of report against the new codes main executive directors are fully discussed Artemis Investment Management and supporting principles and and critically examined.
Artemis also holds provisions in the 2004 annual report a significant shareholding in the and, where appropriate to Cairns To enable the Board to perform its Company.
The Board has reviewed business, has already implemented a duties, it has full and timely access to the Chinese wall arrangements in number of the new provisions.
all relevant information and a formal place between Mark Tyndall and schedule of matters specifically Artemis and is also satisfied that Mr The Board reserved to it for decision which is Tyndall is independent in character Cairns business is international in updated regularly.
There is also a and judgement.
scope and carries political, procedure agreed by the Board for commercial and technical risk.
directors, in furtherance of their Routine meetings of the Board take Accordingly, particular attention is duties, to take independent place up to ten times a year, with paid to the construction and balance professional advice if necessary, at the additional meetings when required.
In of the Board, to ensure that external Groups expense.
In addition, the addition, the Board is in frequent experience of the sector, of financial Company has directors and officers contact between meetings to and risk management, the regulatory liability insurance in place.
environment, and of other commercial organisations is available to inform the The Board has recently implemented During 2003 all directors attended all Boards deliberations.
In each Board a process of formal Board evaluation.
scheduled meetings of the Board appointment, whether executive or This process involves the Chairman except Ed Story, who was unable to non-executive, the Board considers individually discussing and attend three meetings for personal that objectivity and integrity, as well as documenting with each director the reasons, and Malcolm Thoms, who skills, experience and ability which will operation and performance of the was unable to attend one meeting for assist the Board in its key functions, Board, its members and its business reasons.
Board meetings are pre-requisites for appointment.
The Chairman will then held at short notice are quorate with 20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Statement continued two or three directors present.
All A record of directors attendance at Where attendance is shown as not directors unable to attend Board scheduled board meetings during applicable N A, the director had not and committee meetings are given 2003 is given in the table below.
The been appointed at the date of the the opportunity to comment and be table excludes short notice board meeting in question.
consulted in advance of the meeting meetings and meetings of standing or by telephone, email or videospecifically authorised committees of Phil Tracy has not been included in the conferencing.
table below as he was not appointed a director until February 2004.
Norman Hamish Ed Todd Mark Bill Mike Kevin Malcolm Murray Grossart Story Hunt Tyndall Gammell Watts Hart Thoms 13.01.03 Yes Yes Yes N A N A Yes Yes Yes Yes 04.03.03 Yes Yes No N A N A Yes Yes Yes No 24.03.03 Yes Yes No N A N A Yes Yes Yes Yes 07.05.03 Yes Yes Yes N A N A Yes Yes Yes Yes 25.06.03 Yes Yes Yes Yes N A Yes Yes Yes Yes 28.08.03 Yes Yes Yes Yes N A Yes Yes Yes Yes 30.09.03 Yes Yes No Yes N A Yes Yes Yes Yes 02.12.03 Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Board Committees 1.
Audit Committee The audit committee meets four times The Board has established an audit a year to review and report to the committee, a remuneration committee The members of the audit committee Board on matters related to the and a nomination committee, each of are Norman Murray Chairman, published financial statements and which has formal terms of reference Hamish Grossart and Ed Story.
systems of internal financial control.
The terms of Norman Murray trained as a Chartered A record of members attendance at reference for each of these Accountant and Hamish Grossart meetings of the audit committee committees have been updated to trained as an investment banker.
Both during 2003 is given in the table meet the provisions of the new serve on audit committees elsewhere below.
Ed Story was unable to attend Combined Code.
and therefore have recent and relevant one of the four meetings held for financial experience.
Norman Hamish Ed Murray Grossart Story 27.02.03 Yes Yes No 07.05.03 Yes Yes Yes 25.06.03 Yes Yes Yes 28.08.03 Yes Yes Yes 21 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 2.
Remuneration Committee compensation payments are given yet been appointed a member of the in the directors remuneration report committee at the date of the meeting The members of the remuneration on pages 27 to 34.
All committee members committee are Hamish Grossart committee is also responsible for attended all meetings of the Chairman, Norman Murray, Ed Story administering Cairns share option remuneration committee during 2003, and Mark Tyndall.
The remuneration schemes and LTIP.
except Ed Story who was unable to committee meets regularly throughout attend five of the seven meetings held the year and determines the A record of members attendance at and Mark Tyndall, who did not attend remuneration of the executive meetings of the remuneration committee the six meetings held prior to his directors and senior employees.
during 2003 is given in the table below.
Details of the Companys policies on Where attendance is shown as not remuneration, service contracts and applicable N A the director had not Hamish Norman Ed Mark Grossart Murray Story Tyndall 13.01.03 Yes Yes Yes N A 04.03.03 Yes Yes No N A 18.03.03 Yes Yes No N A 17.04.03 Yes Yes Yes N A 07.05.03 Yes Yes No N A 11.11.03 Yes Yes No N A 02.12.03 Yes Yes No Yes and skill sets of the Board, and All committee members attended all 3.
Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the meetings of the nomination committee Board in this connection, on the during 2003, except Ed Story who The members of the nomination appointment of new directors and on was unable to attend three of the four committee are Norman Murray the re-appointment or otherwise of meetings held.
A record of members Chairman, Hamish Grossart, Ed existing directors.
attendance at meetings of the Story and Bill Gammell.
The nomination committee during 2003 is nomination committee meets regularly given in the table below.
to consider the composition, balance Norman Hamish Ed Bill Murray Grossart Story Gammell 04.03.03 Yes Yes No Yes 07.05.03 Yes Yes No Yes 25.06.03 Yes Yes Yes Yes 30.09.03 Yes Yes No Yes Pursuant to the Company's Articles of Association, all directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
22 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Statement continued Relations with Shareholders disclose with reasonable accuracy the The Cairn Business Risk Management Communications with shareholders financial position of the Group, and Process BRMP incorporates the are given high priority.
Cairn sends which enable them to ensure that the method by which Cairn manages its both its annual report and accounts financial statements comply with the Group risk profile and is being fully and interim report and accounts to all Act.
The directors have general embedded on an ongoing basis shareholders.
There is regular responsibility for taking such steps as throughout the Group.
The process dialogue with individual institutional are reasonably open to them to has been in place in respect of the shareholders, including meetings after safeguard the assets of the Group Group for the 2003 accounting period the announcement of the year end and to prevent and detect fraud and and up to the date of approval of the and interim results.
attends a number of these meetings.
Cairn responds to all correspondence Going Concern The Board has carried out regular from shareholders and also has a The directors have considered the reviews of the effectiveness of the website which contains a range of factors relevant to support a Groups system of internal controls information, including a dedicated statement on going concern.
They during 2003, and will ensure that investor relations section.
have a reasonable expectation that further such reviews are performed on the Group will continue in operational a regular basis.
The Board is satisfied Annual General Meeting AGM existence for the foreseeable future that effective controls are in place and The Board uses the AGM to and have therefore used the going that risks have been mitigated to an communicate with private and concern basis in preparing the acceptable level.
The key elements of institutional investors and welcomes financial statements.
the internal control system and the their participation.
The Chairman aims processes used by the Board to to ensure that the chairmen of the Internal Control review the effectiveness of the system audit, remuneration and nomination The Board acknowledges that it is include the following: committees are available at AGMs to responsible for the Groups system of answer questions.
internal control and for reviewing its 1.
The Groups system of Group strategy is determined by the Details of resolutions to be proposed internal control is designed to manage Board and its implementation at the AGM on 4 May 2004 can be rather than eliminate the risk of failure delegated to the Group Management found in the Notice of AGM on pages to achieve business objectives, and Board the GMB.
The Company arranges for can only provide reasonable but not the Notice of AGM and related absolute assurance against material 2.
Operating Management documents to be sent to shareholders misstatement or loss.
The remit of the GMB is to formulate a minimum of 20 working days before and execute business plans in the meeting.
As an oil and gas exploration and alignment with Group strategy and production company, Cairn is, by with appropriate internal controls.
In Directors Responsibility Statement virtue of the nature of its business and addition, the Indian Management Under the Companies Act 1985 the the countries in which it operates, Board IMB continues to manage Act, the directors are required to subject to significant risk.
The Groups the Groups day-to-day business in prepare financial statements for each current operations are concentrated in India, with a reporting link to the financial period which give a true and South Asia where there are particular GMB.
fair view of the state of affairs of the cultural and political differences in Company and of the Group as at the conducting business.
Risk Management end of the financial period, and of the believe that Cairn derives a The Board has approved the BRMP profit or loss of the Group for that competitive edge by focusing which has been implemented period.
The financial statements have activities in this core area.
throughout the Group and on which been prepared on a going concern the Board regularly receives progress basis.
The directors consider that Cairn adopts internal controls updates.
The GMB and IMB have applicable accounting standards have appropriate to its business and each played an integral role in been followed, appropriate accounting culture.
An ongoing process has been embedding the BRMP across the policies have been used and applied established for identifying, evaluating organisation.
The risk management consistently and reasonable and and managing the significant risks committee established by the Board prudent judgements and estimates faced by the Group and is in in 1999 continues to have have been made.
The directors have accordance with the guidance of the responsibility for co-ordinating the responsibility for ensuring that Turnbull Committee on internal ongoing process of identifying, accounting records are kept which control.
evaluating and reporting progress to 23 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003 the Board on managing the Groups The Board also receives reports on Compliance With Combined Code key risks.
Each meeting of the risk any major risk issues that have The Board considers that the Cairn management committee is attended occurred during the year and how Group was in full compliance with all by at least one independent nonrisks have changed over the period the provisions of Section 1 of the executive director.
The conclusion of the Combined Code throughout the Board following these reviews is that financial year.
For the avoidance of Risks are regularly updated, managed the internal controls in respect of key doubt, this statement of compliance and reported through the Group Risk risks are appropriate.
refers to the Combined Code issued Register the GRR.
Both a topby the Hampel Committee in June down and bottom-up approach have Cairn has a material interest in its 1998 and subsequently appended to been adopted in developing the non-operated joint venture in the Listing Rules.
BRMP and it is recognised throughout Bangladesh operated by Shell during the organisation that the process is 2003 and has audit rights to verify iterative, requiring ongoing monitoring the effectiveness of controls for this and improvement.
At an operating level, each 4.
Assurances department and location has a The directors derive assurance from specific section within the GRR which the following internal and external identifies and rates risks in terms of controls: significance and likelihood of occurrence, the controls and a regularly updated schedule of procedures in place in respect of each matters specifically reserved for a risk, and the actions being taken, decision of the Board: where appropriate, to manage risks to policies and procedures for key the desired level.
Business risk status business activities: reports are produced by each an appropriate organisational department and location on a regular structure: basis.
control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated The GRR identifies the key risks Cairn representatives: facing Cairn across all areas of its specific delegations of authority for business under key business all financial and other transactions: activities.
The Board have reviewed segregation of duties where the key risks within each key business appropriate and cost effective: activity, agreed risk management business and financial reporting for solutions and taken necessary actions operations: where appropriate.
In addition, the reports from the audit committee Board commissioned internal reviews and risk management committee: of the effectiveness of internal controls audits by governments and corelative to the key risks.
These reviews venturers: take the form of an assurance model independent third party reviews for each key risk wherein operating, commissioned by Cairn: monitoring and executive controls are external audits: identified together with key internal audits to assess compliance performance indicators and - an internal auditor continues to independent assurers.
play a significant role in the risk management process.
The Board In addition, country managers have reviews the remit, authority, submitted annual assurance letters to resources and scope of work of the the Board on the effectiveness of internal auditor on an annual basis.
internal controls for their operations for 2003.
