28 | Corporate Governance and Internal Control CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Group is committed to the objective All directors have access to the Company The Nomination Committee considered the of achieving high standards of corporate Secretary.
candidates for election or re-election at this years governance and internal control.
Annual General Meeting as referred to in The Board periodically conducts a Ordinary Resolutions 3 i to iv in the Notice In the year ended 31 December 2003 and self-assessment exercise to evaluate the of Annual General Meeting on pages 156 to in the preparation of this Annual Report and effectiveness of its procedures.
Following the 158 of this document at its meeting on Accounts, the Company has applied the last such exercise, which was carried out in 20 February 2004.
It recommends to principles set out in section 1 of the Combined 2002, a number of improvements were made shareholders the election of Mr Marks and the Code as applicable to the year ended to the planning and conduct of Board meetings.
re-election of Mr Bogni and Mr Broadhurst as 31 December 2003 the Combined Code and It is intended that this exercise will be repeated non-executive directors based upon their complied throughout the accounting period at appropriate intervals in the future.
professional qualifications, prior business with the Combined Code provisions experience and contribution or, in the case of set out therein in the following manner.
The Board currently comprises two executive Mr Marks who only joined the Board in and eight non-executive directors, as described February 2004, prospective contribution to the BOARD OF DIRECTORS in more detail on pages 34 and 35.
Mr Levett, Board, and the re-election of Mr Roberts as The Board meets on a scheduled basis regularly the non-executive Chairman, was previously Group Finance Director on the basis of his during the year including sessions devoted Chairman and Chief Executive of the Company.
satisfactory performance in that role since to strategy and business planning and has Mr Liebenberg is Chairman of the Companys joining the Group in August 2000. specific matters reserved to it for decision.
subsidiary, Nedcor Limited, and was formerly It also meets ad hoc, as and when required, Chief Executive of that company.
COMMITTEES between its scheduled meetings to deal with EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE specific matters requiring Board consideration.
The other six non-executive directors Messrs The Executive Committee is a committee of Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst, Clewlow, Collins the Board comprising the executive directors During 2003, the ten scheduled Board meetings and Marks are considered by the Board to be of the Company, to which executive control were attended by all of the directors who were free from any business or other relationship and decision-making are delegated, subject in office at the respective meeting dates, except that could materially interfere with the exercise to reservation of matters that require approval for one from which Mr Stuart was absent, of their independent judgement.
During the by the Board itself.
two from which Mr Broadhurst was absent year Mr Joubert and Mr Stuart left the Board and four from which Mr Laubscher was absent.
on reaching their seventieth birthdays and NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Board also met on one other occasion, Mr Laubscher ceased to be an executive The Nomination Committee makes on an ad hoc basis, which was attended by director in December 2003 on stepping down recommendations to the Board in relation to all of the directors.
as Chief Executive of Nedcor Limited.
the appointment of directors and the structure of the Board.
It was chaired until February Where directors are unable to attend Board The executive element of the Board is balanced 2003 by Mr Stuart and thereafter by Mr Levett.
meetings for any reason, every effort is made by a strong independent group of non-executive Its other members during the year were Mr Bogni to obtain and communicate to the meeting directors.
Mr Stuart served as the senior from February 2003, Mr Broadhurst, any comments they may have on the items independent non-executive director until Mr Clewlow, Mr Collins, Mr Joubert until on the agenda.
February 2003, when he was succeeded his retirement from the Board in June 2003, in that role by Mr Collins.
Mr Liebenberg and Mr Sutcliffe.
Directors, on appointment and regularly thereafter, are briefed in writing and orally by ROTATION RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Company Secretary acts as Secretary executive management including on social, The Articles of Association of the Company to the Nomination Committee.
All six of its environmental and ethical matters, where require that at least one-third of the directors meetings during 2003 were attended by all significant to the Groups businesses.
They excluding those appointed by the Board during the then members, except for one from which may take independent professional advice the year shall retire by rotation each year.
at the Companys expense if necessary for This reflects the principle of the Combined the furtherance of their duties.
Code and is applied in such a manner that REMUNERATION COMMITTEE each of the directors will submit himself for The Remuneration Committee, chaired by The Company also ensures that newly election or re-election at regular intervals and Mr Collins, comprises four of the non-executive appointed non-executive directors receive at least every three years.
directors, as described in the Remuneration appropriate external training on their duties and Report on pages 40 to 50, all of whom are on the responsibilities that they are expected to Proposals for election or re-election to the considered by the Board to be independent discharge, and that they are familiarised with the Board are considered by the Nomination for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Groups main businesses as soon as practicable.
Committee, and are not automatic.
Corporate Governance and Internal Control | 29 Details of how the Remuneration Committee A number of audit or audit, risk and compliance GROUP CAPITAL MANAGEMENT and the Board have applied the principles of committees operated at subsidiary level during COMMITTEE the Combined Code in respect of the executive 2003, including at Old Mutual Financial Services The Group Capital Management Committee is directors remuneration and other details of the UK plc, Old Mutual Life Assurance Company a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
role and activities of the Remuneration Committee South Africa Limited, Old Mutual US Holdings, Its role is: i to set an appropriate framework are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Inc. Nedcor Limited and Mutual & Federal and guidelines to ensure the appropriate Insurance Company Limited, with terms of management of the Groups capital: GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE reference in relation to the businesses under ii to allocate capital to the Groups various The Group Audit Committee is chaired by their respective remit broadly equivalent to those businesses based on twice yearly requests: Mr Broadhurst, and other members who of the Group Audit Committee.
The Group Audit and iii to monitor the return based on allocated served during the year were Mr Andrews Committee receives minutes of the proceedings capital per business relative to the hurdle rate from February 2003, Mr Bogni, Mr Clewlow, and reports from subsidiary audit committees and limiting the allocation of capital to underMr Collins, Mr Joubert until his retirement on a regular basis.
from the Board in June 2003 and Mr Stuart until his retirement from the Board in July 2003.
GROUP COMPLIANCE AND RISK In addition, it is tasked: i to ensure that Mr Liebenberg was also a member of the MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE the strategic investment goals of the Group Group Audit Committee until August 2003, The Group Compliance and Risk Management are clearly disseminated: ii to consider and when he stepped down so that the Committee Committee, chaired by Mr Clewlow, operated as approve the overall investment strategy of the would thenceforth comprise only independent a sub-committee of the Group Audit Committee Groups shareholders funds, including those non-executive directors in accordance during 2003.
Other members of this committee supporting regulatory and solvency capital, with developing best practice.
The Company were Mr Sutcliffe, Mr Broadhurst and, with in order that the shareholders assets are Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
effect from February 2003, Mr Liebenberg.
managed prudently having regard to risk, The Committee met twice during the year.
liquidity, tax and the need to support the The terms of reference of the Group Audit Its role was to review compliance and other Groups businesses: and iii to consider Committee were updated in the final quarter significant risks within the Groups operations projects referred to it and to approve or, of 2003 to take account of revisions to the with a view to ensuring that appropriate where appropriate, refer up for approval Combined Code and the Smith Guidance on controls were in place to address those risks.
those deemed most likely to support the the role and responsibilities of Audit Committees.
Responsibility for the day to day control of risk Groups core strategies and to build and compliance remained, however, primarily with shareholder value.
Its current membership The Committees terms of reference enable it to the management of the underlying operations.
comprises the Chief Executive, the Group take an independent view of the appropriateness Finance Director, the Group Treasurer and the of the Groups accounting policies and practices From January 2004 the role of the Group Group Accountant.
It met twice during 2003. for presentation of its interim and final results Compliance and Risk Management Committee and the Report and Accounts and the will be undertaken by the Group Audit Committee ACTUARIAL REVIEW COMMITTEE effectiveness of the Groups internal control and subsidiaries own audit committees.
The Actuarial Review Committee is a system including financial, operational, sub-committee of the Group Audit Committee compliance controls and risk management.
Each business has an executive director or and covers the Groups life operations directors responsible for the risk and compliance worldwide.
It is chaired by Mr Bogni and its It also reviews annually the remit, authority, functions.
An escalation process is in place other members are Mr Roberts and Mr Levett.
resources and scope of the work of internal which is designed to ensure that significant It met twice during 2003. audit, and considers the appointment of, and risk and compliance issues and significant fees both audit and non-audit for, the external control failures are reported to the Group The role of the Actuarial Review Committee is: auditors, who have unrestricted access to it.
i to review the actuarial elements that affect It also monitors internal and external auditors the Groups externally published financial performance against expectations.
The Group statements annual and interim : ii to verify Audit Committee met five times during 2003 the appropriateness of the actuarial methods and all the members of the Committee were and assumptions used and changes thereto present at each meeting.
and the appropriateness of the financial results which depend on actuarial calculations: and iii to review the financial soundness of each of the life assurance companies within the Group.
30 | Corporate Governance and Internal Control CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED TERMS OF REFERENCE The Groups internal control system is The SEC and the NYAG have filed civil suits The terms of reference of each of the principal designed to manage, rather than eliminate, against PBA and the two former principals.
committees of the Board are available in the the risk of failure to achieve the Groups In addition, there are several related private Corporate Governance section of the Companys business objectives, and can only provide lawsuits pending that arise from the facts website www.
com and may also be reasonable, and not absolute, assurance alleged by the SEC and the NYAG.
As obtained upon request from the Company against material misstatement or loss.
significant uncertainty remains over the Secretary at the registered office.
quantum of any payment that might be The Board is of the view that there is a sufficient required to be borne by the former principals INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and personally or by PBA itself arising from these The Board acknowledges its overall managing the significant risks faced by the suits, it is not currently possible to say whether responsibility for the Groups system of internal Group, and that this process has been in place or not the amount of any financial impact on control and for reviewing its effectiveness, for the year ended 31 December 2003 and the Group will be material.
whilst the role of executive management is to up to the date of approval of this Report.
implement Board policies on risk and control.
The process accords with the Turnbull Nedcors results in 2003 were affected by guidance set out in Internal Control Guidance a number of adverse circumstances, as Executive management have implemented an for Directors on the Combined Code and is described in more detail in the Business internal control system designed to facilitate the regularly reviewed by the Board.
In response to a series of profit effective and efficient operation of the Group warnings issued by Nedcor in the second half and its business units and aimed at enabling During 2003, Pilgrim Baxter & Associates, of 2003, changes were made to senior management to respond appropriately to Ltd PBA conducted an internal review into executive management there.
significant business, operational, financial, alleged market timing activities in the period compliance and other risks to achieving the up to December 2001 in some of the funds The Company has also taken a number Groups business objectives.
These include managed by it.
In the course of its review, PBA of other steps to improve its governance protecting policyholders interests, safeguarding learned of certain activities involving the former of Nedcor.
These include the entry into a shareholders investments, safeguarding assets principals of that firm.
PBA promptly notified relationship agreement between Old Mutual from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud, the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nedcor on 20 February 2004.
The ensuring that liabilities are identified and SEC and the office of the New York Attorney agreement is also intended to enhance the managed, and addressing any social, General NYAG of its findings, severed its co-ordination of business activities between environmental or ethical matters that have relationship with the principals concerned Nedcor and Old Mutual.
The full terms of the significance for the Groups businesses.
relationship agreement are available on the Companys website www.
The system of internal control also helps to The new management of PBA is committed to ensure the quality of internal and external the best interests of the shareholders in PBAs Other key components of the Groups overall reporting, compliance with applicable laws and funds and, with the help of outside experts, has system of internal control currently in operation regulations, and internal policies with respect to adopted standards and controls that will further and the process of review by the directors are the conduct of business.
protect the interests of its shareholders.
addition, it has engaged KPMG LLP to perform During 2003 the Groups system of internal a comprehensive review and test of the BUSINESS PLANNING control was standardised through the creation suitability of design controls and their operating The Board reviews the Groups strategic of a Group policy for each major risk category effectiveness relating to investment management direction and the executive directors consider which set high level principles for the and administration of mutual fund assets.
the strategy for individual businesses with management or mitigation of risk.
Each executive management on a regular basis.
subsidiary will align its own policies with these Annual budgets and three-year strategic plans Group policies during 2004.
Any exceptions are prepared, with performance targets for between the Groups and subsidiaries policy each business set by the executive directors positions will be documented and agreed in conjunction with executive management.
by the Group Audit Committee.
Corporate Governance and Internal Control | 31 The overall Group plan is then reviewed by The Group risk function is responsible for LIFE ASSURANCE the Board in the light of the Groups objectives.
maintaining and updating on a regular basis Underwriting risk is controlled by underwriting Performance against plan is regularly the Groups strategic risk profile and monitoring principles governing product repricing procedures monitored at Board level.
The underwriting process takes into account actual and prospective MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES During 2003 the Group Compliance and mortality, morbidity and expense experience.
The Group has an appropriate organisational Risk Management Committee reported to structure for planning, executing, controlling the Group Audit Committee on risks to the The impact of HIV AIDS is mitigated wherever and monitoring its business operations in order achievement of the Groups objectives and possible by writing products that allow for to achieve the strategic business objectives instances of significant control failures status repricing on a regular basis or are priced to approved by the Board.
and accountability for resolution also being noted.
allow for the expected inflationary effects of It was supported by a Group risk function, AIDS.
The Group also conducts HIV and other The management of the Group as a whole which coordinated regular reports from the risk tests for lives insured above specific values is delegated to the executive directors in management and compliance or equivalent and offers reduced premiums for those accordance with a Scheme of Delegated committees within the Groups subsidiaries or willing to undergo regular testing.
Authority, which also governs the conduct business units, whose terms of reference were of the executive managers of the underlying aligned with those of the Group Compliance For fixed annuities, market risks are managed operations of the Group.
These executive and Risk Management Committee.
by investing in fixed interest securities with managers are accountable for the control, a duration closely corresponding to those conduct and performance of their businesses MANAGEMENT OF SPECIFIC RISKS liabilities.
Market risks on policies where the terms within an agreed business strategy.
At Company level, the principal risks are the are guaranteed in advance and the investment volatility of the major currencies in which the risk is carried by the shareholders, principally RISK MANAGEMENT Group operates Rand and US$ to Sterling reside in the South African guaranteed non-profit Members of executive management are and investment market movements.
annuity book, which is closely matched with responsible for the identification, evaluation gilts and semi-gilts.
Other non-profit policies are and management of risks affecting their areas Given the lack of deep and liquid markets also suitably matched through comprehensive of business.
The risk identification process for African trading currencies and the size investment guidelines.
commences during the business planning of currency-related risks, the Group does not exercise.
Each business identifies the risks that currently hedge translation risk for African Market risks on with-profit policies, where have the potential to prevent its business currencies, although action may be taken to investment risk is shared, are minimised objectives from being achieved.
Members of hedge specific forecast cash flows, such as by appropriate bonus declaration practices.
management then document how they will the payment of dividends from South Africa.
maintain the effectiveness of the controls or Equity price risk and interest rate risk on the alternatively set out the action points necessary In order to manage investment risk, the Group value of securities are modelled by the Groups to improve the controls over the risk.
makes limited use of derivative contracts, risk-based capital practices, which require outside regulated entities, only for the purposes sufficient capital to be held by the life assurance Thereafter, management report monthly on of risk reduction or efficient portfolio management.
company in excess of the statutory minimum the status of the controls or action plans in Speculative activity is not permitted and all to allow the Group to manage significant equity their business review reports, thus ensuring the transactions must be fully covered by cash or exposures.
Credit risk is monitored by credit major risks to their business and the Group are corresponding assets and liabilities.
The total committees covering life and third party funds, regularly monitored.
The monthly reports are income from all derivative instruments outside which have established appropriate exposure updated for new risks or where risks are no regulated entities is not material to the Group.
The other principal risks managed by the Groups businesses are described below.
32 | Corporate Governance and Internal Control CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL CONTINUED BANKING Nedcors trading in foreign exchange and The Group Finance Director provides the Board Financial instruments are fundamental to the interest rate markets primarily involves interest with monthly performance information which operations of Nedcor and such instruments rate swaps, forward rate agreements, bonds includes key performance and risk indicators.
are frequently used to manage the risks that and bond options.
Currency options, equities Nedcor is exposed to in the course of its and equity derivatives are also traded on a As part of the Boards annual review process, normal operations.
Trading exposures are measured each executive director is asked to complete using sensitivity analysis, value at risk and a letter of assurance confirming compliance Risks relating to trading and non-trading scenario testing, and Nedcor operates a formal throughout the year and up to the date of activities are managed through a framework of system of monitoring and oversight on market approval of the Annual Report with the Groups policies, methods and independent monitoring trading risk.
Scheme of Delegated Authority and risk committees.
The results ASSET MANAGEMENT of these letters are reported to the Group Audit Asset and liability management is conducted The exposure of the Groups asset Committee.
These letters of assurance are within a formal structure which monitors the management businesses to market fluctuations supported by regularly updated risk profiles of levels of acceptable financial risk and the arises from the potential impacts on revenue each subsidiary and business unit, combined management thereof.
Asset and liability levels, which are a function of the value of with a process of control self-assessment.
management is not heavily reliant on trading client portfolios.
Investment risk is principally securities and derivatives.
The focus is on borne by the client.
Compliance risks faced by Management teams in each subsidiary and using on-balance sheet mechanisms.
these businesses are monitored and reviewed business unit have applied the Criteria of by compliance and risk committees established Control Model CoCo developed by the Interest rate risk for Nedcor is its net income for this purpose.
The risk of loss of key Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants, exposure to adverse movements in rates arising employees is managed by the use of long term and have produced a control integrity profile as a result of the mismatches in the repricing incentive schemes aligned with shareholder for successive assurances given at increasingly terms of assets and liabilities.
value targets, and by competition restrictions higher levels of management and finally to in employment agreements.
This process is Prospective repricing of assets and liabilities is co-ordinated by the Group Compliance and assessed using gap analysis and earnings at GENERAL INSURANCE Risk Management Committee and facilitated risk modelling techniques to assess the Underwriting risks are controlled through a by the Group risk function.
formal system of parameters within Mutual & Federal, which is regularly updated and only Control failures are reported pursuant to an Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to raise deviated from following approval by senior escalation protocol to the appropriate level funds at market prices to meet commitments management.
Reinsurance cover is in place, of management board or committee, where as they fall due or to satisfy client demands with retentions set at conservative levels.
rectification procedures and progress are for funds.
This risk is managed by the closely monitored.
Planned corrective actions maintenance of adequate capital, combined Equity price risk is covered by the capital are independently monitored for timely completion with sophisticated cash flow forecasting and strength of the Mutual & Federal group.
by internal audit and, as appropriate, the Group strategic planning, maintaining an adequate Audit Committee and Board.
pool of high quality marketable assets and MONITORING OF CONTROLS ensuring appropriate diversity in liabilities.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of The Groups internal audit function operates the system of internal control during the year.
on a decentralised basis co-ordinated at Group Credit risk is governed by policy guidelines and The key processes supporting the Boards level by the Group head of internal audit.
administered by an appropriately constituted regular and annual review process are It carries out regular risk-focused reviews committee at Nedcor, which approves large summarised below.
of the system of internal control and reports exposures, risk limits, provisions and nonto local executive management, with performing loans.
Concentrations in country The Chief Executive Officers of the Groups unrestricted access to the Chairman of the credit risk are similarly managed.
principal subsidiaries and business units report Group Audit Committee.
to the Board on behalf of their respective executive committees on major changes in the business and external environment that affect the significant risks to the businesses.
Corporate Governance and Internal Control | 33 An internal audit charter, reviewed and The Companys share registrars in the UK approved by the Group Audit Committee, and each country where its shares are listed governs internal audit activity within the Group offer services to personal shareholders to deal and is conducted in accordance with an with specific requests that they may have.
Progress against that plan The Companys brokers in each of the five is reported regularly to that Committee.
markets where Old Mutuals shares are listed also maintain active communication with, and ASSOCIATES provide other services for, the Companys The policyholders funds of the Groups shareholders.
South African and Zimbabwean life assurance operations have holdings representing in Group strategy and performance are aggregate in excess of 20% of the issued share communicated to financial markets through capital of a number of major South African annual and interim reports, news releases, and Zimbabwean companies listed on the speeches, transcripts and presentations, JSE Securities Exchange South Africa and using a wide spectrum of internal and external the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, respectively.
Frequently asked These are held as investments and the companies questions are posted on the Companys website concerned are not subject to the governance or and the Company responds to many direct control structures of the Group.
requests for information and also provides answers to specific queries.
The Companys INVESTOR RELATIONS website offers a wide range of services for The Company is committed to a process of investors, which includes the Companys share continuing dialogue with its investors and has price, details of dividends, procedures for maintained a policy of proactive communication, electing to receive communications electronically appropriate disclosure, and transparency of and other relevant data for shareholders.
information throughout the past year.
The Board monitors investor relations matters After each results declaration and following closely.
The executive directors participate major corporate actions, the Company makes fully in specific investor programmes on appropriate contact with investors and an international basis.
intermediaries, and issues news releases and other materials including electronic GOING CONCERN communications.
The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation Formal presentations, webcasts and speeches for the foreseeable future.
The Groups financial are posted on the Companys website statements have accordingly been prepared www.
com, where they are on a going concern basis.
accessible, subject to restrictions arising from the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, By order of the Board by interested parties.
Martin C Murray Group Company Secretary 17 March 2004
