18 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance Directors Statement of Compliance with The Code of Best Practice The Principles The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for governance of the Companys affairs and this statement describes how the relevant principles have been applied by your Directors.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance was published in June 1998 and in September 1999 the guidance on internal control was issued.
The Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules require that the Company reports to shareholders on how the principles of the Code have been applied by the Company.
The Directors of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc have considered the provisions detailed in the Code and believe that, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business they have been complied with during the year under review.
Directors The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, three of whom are considered independent of the Companys Manager.
Sir Martyn Arbib, Edward Burke and Stephen Whittaker who served as a Director during the year are considered to have links to the Companys Manager.
Brief biographical details of members of the Board appear on page 11.
The Directors are equally responsible under the United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the best interests of all of the Companys shareholders and that the best interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
In view of this fact the Board does not consider it appropriate to identify a senior independent director as recommended in the Code.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Chairman of the Company is Sir Patrick Sheehy, a non-executive Director.
As the Company is an Investment Trust, and its Board consists of non-executive Directors, it does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Board Balance All Directors are non-executive and have a range of business, financial or asset management skills or experience relevant to the direction of the Company.
Supply of Information To enable the members of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Managers ensure that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
The Board meets on a regular basis.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Managers with the Board between formal meetings.
The Board is responsible for the investment policy and operations of the Company and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it which is kept under review.
Appointment and Re-election Directors are selected and appointed by the Board as a whole.
There is no Nomination Committee as the Board is considered small for the purposes of the Code.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
Under the Articles of Association, the Directors may, by notice in writing, remove any Director from the Board without notice or compensation.
The Articles of Association currently require one third of the Directors to retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at every Annual General Meeting.
Therefore no Director serves a term of more than three years before reelection.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory developments.
Directors Remuneration The Company is an Investment Trust and members of the Board are all non-executive Directors.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 16 and 17.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 19 Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority by both the Board and the Managers.
In addition to the interim report and full Annual Report and Accounts, the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares is announced daily to The Stock Exchange.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts at the time of the annual results.
A full presentation is provided by the Managers in addition to the normal business of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders and analysts are encouraged to attend and the results of the proxy votes for each resolution are announced at the meeting.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, Sir Patrick Sheehy who is also the Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committees, at the Annual General Meeting.
It is the intention of the Board that Report and Accounts are issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders who wish to lodge questions in advance of the Annual General Meeting are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card or in writing to The Company Secretary at the address detailed on page 11.
The Company responds to letters from individual shareholders on a range of issues.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities with regard to the financial statements are set out on page 20 and the Independent Auditors Report is set out on page 21.
Internal Financial and Non-Financial Controls The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys system of internal financial and non-financial controls internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
They have reviewed the operations of the Company.
The control systems have been codified to enable the ongoing monitoring and management of risks and to facilitate a regular review.
The Board meets regularly and reviews financial reports and performance against approved forecasts and relevant stock market criteria.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
These control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve objectives.
The Audit Committee The Board is supported by an Audit Committee consisting of the independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Sir Patrick Sheehy.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year to review the internal financial controls, accounting policies and the contents of the interim and annual reports to shareholders.
In addition, the Committee reviews the adequacy and scope of the external audit, and compliance with regulatory and financial reporting requirements and risk management processes with the Managers Compliance Officers.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committees membership is the same as that of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Sir Patrick Sheehy.
The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The Committee meets annually to review the Investment Management Agreement with the Companys Managers.
