Corporate governance report 1 Introduction This section explains how the company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code issued in June 1998, being the principles of good governance and code of best practice prepared by the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance, appended to, but not forming part of, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
Although the company is not obliged to report on compliance with the revised Combined Code since that applies to reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, nevertheless this corporate governance report also considers the requirements of the revised Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the revised Combined Code.
The statement of compliance is set out on page 51 in paragraph 12.
2 The board Composition 2.1 The board leads and controls the company.
It currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The composition of the board is thus considered to be well-balanced.
Division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive 2.2 The board approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive on 10 December 2003.
Chairman 2.3 The Chairman is also Chairman of Huveaux PLC and Eidos plc.
There has been no material change in his other commitments during the year or since the year end.
Non-executive directors 2.4 Each of the non-executive directors has been formally determined by the board to be independent for the purposes of the revised Combined Code.
2.5 Charles Gregson, the non-executive Deputy Chairman, is the senior director other than the Chairman to whom concerns can be conveyed.
He was first elected to the board on 19 April 1995 and thus on 19 April 2004 nine years will have elapsed since his first election.
Notwithstanding this, the board has determined him to be independent in character and judgement.
He continues to make a distinct and strong contribution to strategy discussions and his experience of international businesses is a particular asset to the group as it continues with international expansion.
Furthermore, given that two of the four non-executive directors were appointed to the board in the last year, it is considered desirable that he continues in office for at least a further year to ensure that the company continues to benefit from his experience and knowledge.
In accordance with the revised Combined Code, as he has served for nine years, he will be proposed for re-election at the annual general meeting.
2.6 Non-executive directors are currently appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended for one further three-year period and, in exceptional cases, for a further period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Governance framework 2.7 The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including corporate strategy, approval of budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals for dividend payments and the approval of all major transactions.
This schedule is reviewed on an annual basis and was last reviewed on 10 December 2003.
The board has appointed five committees.
All committees have written terms of reference which are reviewed on an annual basis and were last updated on 10 December 2003 to take account of the revised Combined Code.
The terms of reference can be found on the companys website or are available on request from the Company Secretary, who is secretary to all the committees.
In addition, the group has detailed corporate policies.
Meetings 2.8 The board normally meets seven times a year, including at an annual planning conference.
Additional meetings are called when required and there is frequent contact between meetings where necessary to progress the companys business.
A pack of board papers including a detailed agenda is sent to each director in the week before the board meeting so that he has sufficient time to review them.
A detailed paper is provided on any issue where the board is to be asked to make a decision.
All directors are therefore able to bring independent judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
Attendance 2.9 Six of the seven scheduled board meetings were attended by all the directors.
The seventh was attended by all the directors apart from Charles Gregson.
An additional meeting was held at short notice to approve John Maxwell taking up an external directorship, which he did not attend as the matter under discussion related to him.
47 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance report continued 2 The board continued Company Secretary 2.10 All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
Independent advice 2.11 There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice relating to the performance of his duties at the companys expense.
Re-election of directors 2.12 Under the companys articles of association, one third of the directors are obliged to retire each year and each director must offer himself for reelection every three years.
A director who is initially appointed by the board is subject to election at the annual general meeting following his appointment.
In 2003 biographical details of the directors submitted for election and re-election at the annual general meeting were supplied to shareholders in the circular dated 21 March 2003.
Performance evaluation 2.13 The board evaluated its performance and that of its committees and individual directors in December 2003.
The Chairman was primarily responsible for this evaluation and submitted a questionnaire to all directors.
This contained detailed questions on all aspects of the operation of the board and its committees and the performance of individual directors.
The senior independent non-executive director was responsible for collating comments on the Chairmans performance.
The Chairman appraised the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive appraised the other executive directors.
A summary of the evaluation was presented to the board on 10 December 2003.
Training 2.14 Training for directors is reviewed annually.
The Company Secretary is responsible for identifying appropriate training courses for directors and it is proposed that in future an annual update session will be arranged for the board.
Where a new director is appointed, full consideration is given to training needs including training on social, environmental and ethical matters and an appropriate individual induction programme is arranged.
A pack of key documents relating to the company is given to the director.
Training is also provided where there is a change in a directors responsibilities.
3 Report on the audit committee 3.1 From 1 January to 30 June 2003 this committee consisted of Charles Gregson and Angela Heylin under the chairmanship of John Maxwell.
Following Angela Heylins retirement as a director on 30 June 2003 the committee consisted of Charles Gregson and John Maxwell under the chairmanship of Graham Pimlott for the rest of the year.
3.2 The committee met three times in 2003, in February, July and December.
The February and December meetings were attended by all members.
The July meeting was attended by all members with the exception of Charles Gregson.
3.3 The committee makes recommendations to the board, for the board to put to shareholders in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
It reviews and monitors the independence and objectivity of the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
It develops and implements policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services and reports to the board identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
It monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the company and the formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
It also reviews the groups whistle-blowing policy.
3.4 The groups internal audit function is provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
The committee formally agrees the internal audit plan once a year and reviews regular reports on the activity of the internal audit function.
As the internal audit function reports to the committee, this helps to ensure the functions independence from group management and ensures that appropriate action is taken in response to audit findings.
3.5 Meetings are attended by both the internal and external auditors as required and by the Finance Director and the director of group accounting.
Other directors and senior management attend only at the invitation of the committee.
At least once a year the members of the committee meet with the external auditors without an executive director or member of the companys senior management being present.
3.6 In 2003 the audit committee considered a schedule of non-audit work carried out by the groupss auditors  LLP PwC at each meeting.
At its December meeting it considered a letter of independence provided by PwC.
At its February meeting the audit committee had a separate session with PwC without any executive director or employee of the company or group being present.
This session is held annually at the February meeting when the groups final results are discussed and gives members of the committee the opportunity to raise any issues directly with PwC.
48 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance report continued 3 Report on the audit committee continued 3.7 In the light of concerns which were raised in relation to the independence of auditors generally, the board and the audit committee carried out a review of the companys policy in respect of non-audit work and the independence of the auditors following publication of the revised Combined Code.
A formal policy on the use of auditors for non-audit work was approved by the committee at its December meeting.
3.8 The main elements of the policy are as follows.
The award of non-audit work to the auditors is managed in order to ensure that the auditors are able to conduct an independent audit and are perceived to be independent by the groups shareholders and stakeholders.
The performance of non-audit work by the groups auditors should be minimised and work should be awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors are clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers.
The group should maintain an active relationship with at least two other professional accounting advisers.
The nature and cost of all non-audit work awarded to the groups external auditors for the period since the last meeting and for the year to date will be reported to each meeting of the audit committee, together with an explanation as to why the auditors were the preferred supplier.
No information technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to the auditors without the prior approval of the Chairman of the audit committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional circumstances.
The Chairman of the audit committee must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost of 250,000 or more.
The auditors may not perform internal audit work.
3.9 Work carried out by PwC for the group in 2003 fell broadly into three categories: statutory audit and related services: assurance services including work in connection with regulatory compliance and, in prior years, work in connection with acquisitions and disposals : and tax services, comprising compliance and general tax advice.
Fees paid to PwC in 2003 are shown below: 2003 2002 000 000 Statutory audit 435 381 Audit services Audit-related regulatory reporting 49 19 Further assurance services 71 1,126 Tax services Compliance services 240 395 Advisory services 543 295 Other services 56 35 Total 1,394 2,251 4 Report on the nomination committee 4.1 From 1 January to 30 June 2003 this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Charles Gregson, Angela Heylin and John Maxwell under the chairmanship of John van Kuffeler.
Following Angela Heylins retirement as a director on 30 June 2003, Graham Pimlott was appointed to the committee with effect from that date.
4.2 The committee met four times in 2003.
All the meetings were attended by all the members.
4.3 Its remit is to assist the board in the process of the selection and appointment of any new director and to recommend to the board the appointment of any new director.
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the board.
It considers and, if appropriate, recommends to the board the extension of the term of office of a non-executive director.
It considers the succession plan annually and reports to the board that it has done so.
4.4 In 2003 the committee approved the specification for the two non-executive director positions.
It instructed an external search consultancy, considered the short-listed candidates and recommended two appointments to the board.
It considered the succession plan and reported formally to the board in December 2003 that it had done so.
5 Report on the remuneration committee Full details of the composition and work of the remuneration committee are contained on page 52 in paragraph 2 of the directors remuneration report.
6 Report on the executive committee 6.1 From 1 January to 31 December 2003 this committee consisted of John Harnett, Chris Johnstone and David Swann under the chairmanship of Robin Ashton.
6.2 It normally meets at least once a week, and more frequently as required, and deals with matters relating to the running of the group, other than those matters reserved to the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
49 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance report continued 7 Report on the risk advisory committee 7.1 From 1 January to 30 June 2003 this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, Angela Heylin and John Maxwell under the chairmanship of Charles Gregson.
Following the retirement of Angela Heylin as a director on 30 June 2003, Graham Pimlott was appointed to the committee with effect from that date.
7.2 The committee met three times in 2003 and all the meetings were attended by all the members.
7.3 Its function is to keep under review the effectiveness of the groups system of non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls and risk management.
8 Accountability The board presents the companys position and prospects in as clear a way as possible, both by means of the annual report and accounts and in circulars and reports to shareholders.
These documents are posted on the companys website at www.
Announcements made by the company to the London Stock Exchange are also posted on the companys website.
9 Internal control 9.1 The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives.
9.2 The key elements of the internal control system which have been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control are set out in paragraphs 9.2.
1 In December each year the board approves detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
A detailed review takes place at the half-year.
Actual performance against budgets is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
2 The audit committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the internal auditors and reports to the board regularly.
An annual programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by the internal auditors.
The operation of internal financial controls is monitored by regular management reviews, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
3 The risk advisory committee considers the nature and extent of the risks facing the group, keeps them under review, reviews the framework to mitigate such risks, and notifies the board of changes in the status and control of risks.
It reports to the board on a regular basis.
In addition, the risk advisory group consisting of the executive directors, the director of group accounting and the Company Secretary formally reviews internal risk assessments from each division twice a year and directs reviews of internal controls and particular areas of risk.
It reports to the risk advisory committee.
4 The board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with its corporate policies and subsidiaries are obliged to certify compliance on an annual basis.
9.3 The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups framework of internal controls during 2003.
10 Relations with shareholders 10.1 The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the Chief Executive and the other executive directors and shareholders and ensuring that the views of the shareholders are made known to the board.
An investor relations report is considered by the board twice a year and a survey of investor opinion was presented to the board in October 2003.
10.2 The company encourages private investors to attend the annual general meeting the AGM.
The chairmen of the board committees are available to answer questions from shareholders at the AGM and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
10.3 At the 2003 AGM details of proxy votes cast on each resolution were made available to shareholders and other interested parties.
10.4 At the 2003 AGM the company proposed separate resolutions on substantially separate issues and will continue to do so.
The company has in previous years generally given shareholders longer notice of the AGM than is required by law.
Last year 25 working days notice of the 2003 AGM was given.
10.5 The company has established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme to enable shareholders to take advantage of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system.
Members of this scheme receive all documents sent to shareholders and may attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
50 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance report continued 11 Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts 11.1 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent auditors report on page 93, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
11.2 The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the groups profit or loss and cash flows for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the accounts on pages 62 to 92 the group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
11.3 The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company and the group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and of the group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
11.4 The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and of the group and to prevent and detect material fraud and other irregularities.
11.5 This document the Annual Report & Accounts 2003 together with the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2003 will be published on the companys website in addition to the normal paper versions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Provident Financial website is the responsibility of the directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
11.6 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 Statement of compliance with the Combined Code 12.1 The company complied with all the provisions in Sections A, B, C and D of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 as at 31 December 2003.
The variation of the executive directors and the Chairmans service agreements was completed on 24 December 2003 reducing the period of notice to be given by the company from two years to one year, thus enabling the company to comply with B.
1.7 with effect from that date.
12.2 The company has made a number of changes to take account of the revised Combined Code issued in July 2003 and the board currently anticipates that the company will comply with the revised Combined Code throughout 2004.
51 Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2003
