CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The directors are committed to high standards of corporate understanding of the diversity of the business.
In 2003, the governance and support the Combined Code on Corporate September Board meeting was held at Jackson National Governance issued in 1998 and appended to the Listing Lifes offices in California in the US.
A further 12 Board Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code.
The Committee meetings took place during the year.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year ended Boards terms of reference set out those matters specifically 31 December 2003 with all the Code provisions set out in reserved to it for decision, in order to ensure that it exercises Section 1 of the Code which applied to listed companies control over the Groups affairs.
These include approval whose reporting year commenced prior to 1 November 2003, of the annual and interim results, strategy and corporate save for the appointment of a senior independent director objectives, operating plans, significant transactions and for the whole of the year under review.
matters affecting the Companys share capital.
We have also carried out a comprehensive review of the A corporate governance framework has been approved by revised Combined Code applicable to reporting years the Board which maps out the internal approvals processes commencing on or after 1 November 2003 and have and those matters which are delegated to business units.
outlined below some of the steps already taken to comply These principally relate to the operational management with the new provisions, particularly with regard to Board of the Groups businesses and include predetermined evaluation, formal induction and professional development.
authority limits delegated by the Board to the Group In addition, a senior independent director has been formally Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of appointed, and we have revised the terms of reference of capital, commitments and other matters which are essential the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
We to the effective day-to-day running and management of have also updated the terms of the letters of appointment the business.
for non-executive directors, to bring them into line with The Chief Executive of each business unit, who in respect of the requirements of the revised Combined Code.
his business unit responsibilities reports to the Group Chief We have applied the principles of the Code in the manner Executive, has authority for management of that business described below and in the Remuneration Report.
unit and has established a management board comprising its most senior executives.
Following enhancements to the THE BOARD Group governance framework during 2003, business unit As at 31 December 2003, the Board comprised the Chief Executives are now required to certify annually their Chairman, five executive directors and seven independent compliance with the requirements of the framework.
Following recent changes, there The Board is accountable for ensuring that an effective are currently six executive directors and six non-executive system for succession planning and management directors.
These non-executive directors bring a wide range development is in place.
This is delivered through an of business, financial and global experience to the Board.
established review process that is applied across all Biographical details of the current Board members appear the businesses and covers both executive and senior on pages 30 and 31.
The roles of Chairman and Group management succession and development.
The Board Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined, so that no reviews the outcomes of the review annually and actions individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman arising from the review are implemented as part of the is responsible for the leadership and governance of the management development agenda.
Board as a whole and the Group Chief Executive for the management of the Group, the implementation of Board All directors have direct access to the services of the strategy and policy on the Boards behalf.
In discharging Company Secretary who advises them through the his responsibility, the Group Chief Executive is advised and Chairman on all corporate governance matters, on Board assisted by the Group Executive Committee, comprising all procedures, and on compliance with applicable rules and the business unit heads and a Group head office team of regulations.
In order to ensure good information flows, full functional specialists.
On 4 December 2003 Rob Rowley was Board and Committee papers are provided to the directors appointed as the Companys Senior Independent Director, by the Company Secretary approximately one week before to whom concerns may be conveyed by shareholders if each Board or Committee meeting.
The Company Secretary they are unable to resolve them through normal channels, also supports the Chairman in providing tailored induction or where such channels are inappropriate.
programmes for new directors and on-going professional development for all directors.
During 2003 the Board met 10 times and held a separate strategy day.
Each year one of the Board meetings is held at Other commitments of the Chairman and changes during one of the Groups business operations to facilitate a fuller the year are detailed in his biography on page 30.
32 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 BOARD COMMITTEES The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by The Board has established the following standing the external auditors quarterly to review the independence committees of non-executive directors: and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory Audit Committee requirements, so that these are not impaired by the Rob Rowley Chairman provision of permissible non-audit services.
The Audit Bart Becht until 8 May 2003 Committee assesses the qualification, expertise and resources, Ann Burdus until 31 December 2003 effectiveness and independence of the external auditors Kathleen ODonovan from 8 May 2003 annually.
At the end of each annual audit cycle, the Audit Sandy Stewart Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee normally meets six times a year and Depending on the outcome of these assessments, and at assists the Board in meeting its responsibilities under the least once every five years, the Audit Committee undertakes Code for an effective system of financial reporting, internal a formal review to assess whether the external audit should control and risk management.
It provides a direct channel be re-tendered.
of communication between the external and internal auditors and the Board, and assists the Board in assessing The external audit was last put out to competitive tender that the external audit is conducted in a thorough, objective in 1999 when the present auditors were appointed.
It also reviews the Internal Audit audit fee paid in 2003 has been set having regard to the annual work plan.
Smith guidance that the audit fee should of itself provide an appropriate return to the auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include reviewing with the management of the Company and the The Audit Committee reviews the Groups statement external auditors the performance of the external auditors on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the and the extent of non-audit services: and the value for Board, and reviews the policies and process for identifying, money obtained from auditors fees for both statutory assessing and managing business risks.
The Committee also audit work and non-audit work.
The terms of reference receives the minutes of the Disclosure Committee and the were amended in February 2003 to ensure they comply Group Risk Committee established in January and February with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 2003 respectively and monitors their activities.
Further which affect UK companies with a dual listing in the US, and information on these Committees appears on pages 36 and 37. the proposed guidance in Sir Robert Smiths report Audit The Audit Committee reviews the interim and annual financial Committees Combined Code Guidance, published in statements before their submission to the Board, paying January 2003 and incorporated into the revised Combined particular attention to: critical accounting policies and practices Code issued in July 2003. and any changes in them: decisions requiring a major element For the purposes of compliance with the revised Combined of judgement: unusual transactions: clarity of disclosures: Code in the UK and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the US, the significant audit adjustments: going concern assumption: Board has designated Rob Rowley as the Audit Committee compliance with accounting standards: and compliance with financial expert.
All the members of the Audit Committee obligations under the Combined Code and other applicable are independent of management.
The Committee is regularly briefed on the development of accounting standards, and during The Audit Committee monitors regularly the non-audit the year has reviewed the status of the Group project to services being provided to the Group by its external implement International Financial Reporting Standards.
auditors, and has developed a formal Auditor Independence Policy to check this does not impair their independence or The Audit Committee reviews the internal audit programme objectivity, and that the Group maintains a sufficient choice and ensures that the internal audit function is adequately of appropriately qualified audit firms.
resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups The policy sets out four key principles which underpin the internal auditors annually, and reports to the Board.
provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: the auditor should not audit its own firms work, make The Audit Committee reviews the Groups procedures management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
At each of financial interest with the Group, or be put in the role meeting, it receives and reviews a report on the number of of advocate for the Group.
These principles are consistent calls to the confidential reporting line or other confidential with the Smith guidance on audit committees referred to communications received and investigated since the last above and with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
meeting, and actions taken in response to these calls.
PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for a Director and other members of the senior management team, defined population of senior management as determined together with the external auditors, are invited to attend by the Board.
The Committee agreed principles for the meetings of the Committee except when the Committee level and structure of remuneration for this population.
The Committee also meets solely The Committee has access to professional advice inside with both external and internal auditors at least once a year.
The minutes of Audit Committee meetings are circulated In addition, the Company has a standing Nomination to the Board after each meeting and the Audit Committee Committee.
Chairman draws the attention of the Board to any matters Nomination Committee of particular significance.
Sir David Clementi Chairman Remuneration Committee Sir David Barnes until 8 May 2003 Roberto Mendoza Chairman Jonathan Bloomer from 6 November 2003 Sir David Barnes until 8 May 2003 Ann Burdus until 31 December 2003 Bart Becht Bridget Macaskill from 18 March 2004 Ann Burdus until 31 December 2003 Rob Rowley Bridget Macaskill from 1 September 2003 Sandy Stewart Kathleen O'Donovan from 8 May 2003 The Nomination Committee, which is comprised of a Rob Rowley majority of independent non-executive directors, meets Sandy Stewart as required to consider candidates for appointment to The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board in the independent non-executive directors of the Company.
In doing so, it evaluates the While the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board members, they attend meetings unless they have a conflict and makes recommendations regarding appointments of interest.
based on merit and against objective criteria, and the requirements of the Companys business.
In appropriate The Remuneration Committee normally has scheduled cases, search consultants are used to identify suitable meetings at least four times a year and a number of ad hoc candidates.
meetings, as required, to review remuneration policy and determine the remuneration packages of the Chairman During 2003 the Committee held two formal meetings and executive directors.
During 2003 a total of seven resulting in the appointment by the Board of two new meetings were held.
In framing its remuneration policy, non-executive directors.
Kathleen ODonovan, whose the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions biographical details are set out on page 31, was appointed of Section 1B of and Schedules A and B to the Code.
The with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Remuneration Report prepared by the Board is set out Meeting on 8 May 2003 and Bridget Macaskill, whose on pages 38 to 52.
In preparing the Report, the Board has biographical details are set out on page 31, rejoined the followed the provisions of Schedule B to the Code and Board on 1 September 2003.
Members of the Board also The Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. reviewed the appointment of Mark Norbom, who joined the Board on 1 January 2004.
Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, Board Committees Terms of Reference the Remuneration Committee consults the Chairman and The full terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and the Group Chief Executive about the Committee's proposals Nomination Committees are available on the Companys relating to the remuneration of all executive directors.
co. uk under the section headed 2003, following the publication of the revised Combined About Prudential.
Hard copies may be obtained upon Code, the terms of reference of the Committee were written request to the Company Secretary at the Companys reviewed and amended.
They were widened to include registered office.
34 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during 2003 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Number of meetings in year 10772 Sir David Clementi 10 n a n a 2 1 Sir David Barnes 4 n a31 2 Bart Becht 805 n a 3 Jonathan Bloomer 10 n a n a 0 Philip Broadley 10 n a n a n a Ann Burdus 8662 4 Bridget Macaskill 3 n a 2 n a Clark Manning 10 n a n a n a Michael McLintock 10 n a n a n a Roberto Mendoza 10 n a 7 n a 5 Kathleen ODonovan 644 n a Rob Rowley 10771 Sandy Stewart 10772 6 Mark Tucker 5 n a n a n a Mark Wood 10 n a n a n a Notes 1.
Resigned as a director on 8 May 2003.
Was a member of the Audit Committee until 8 May 2003.
Became a member of the Nomination Committee on 6 November 2003.
Appointed as a director on 1 September 2003.
Appointed as a director on 8 May 2003.
Resigned as a director on 30 June 2003.
INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL ADVICE Chairman of the board of Egg.
Consequently, Mr Mendoza The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors discloses his interest as Chairman of Egg and if a conflict of have the right in furtherance of their duties to seek interest arises Mr Mendoza will withdraw from any decisionindependent professional advice at the Companys expense.
making by the Board of Prudential in respect of matters regarding Egg.
The Board does not consider that this Copies of any instructions and advice given by an relationship in any way affects his status as an independent independent professional adviser to a director are supplied director of Prudential.
by the director to the Company Secretary who will, unless otherwise instructed by the director concerned, circulate The Company is one of the UKs largest institutional to other directors sufficient information to ensure that other investors and the Board does not believe that this situation members of the Board are kept informed on issues arising compromises the independence of those non-executive which affect the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
directors who are also on the boards of companies in which the Company has a shareholding.
The Board also believes No director obtained independent professional advice that such shareholdings should not preclude the Company during 2003. from having the most appropriate and highest calibre non-executive directors.
DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE, DEVELOPMENT AND RE-ELECTION Non-executive directors are appointed initially for a threeThroughout the year all the non-executive directors year term.
Their appointment is reviewed towards the end were considered by the Board to be independent.
of this period against performance and the requirements A cross-directorship existed between Roberto Mendoza of the Company's business.
Upon appointment, all nonand Jonathan Bloomer who both sit on the board of Egg plc, executive directors embark upon a wide-ranging induction the Companys 79 per cent owned subsidiary which has programme covering, amongst other things, the principal its own listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Under the bases of accounting for the Groups results, the role of Companys Relationship Agreement with Egg, established the Audit Committee and the ambit of the Internal Audit prior to its flotation in 2000, the Company has the right, while function.
In addition, they receive detailed briefings on it continues to own more than 10 per cent of the voting the Groups principal businesses, its product range, the shares, to appoint one director and also, while it continues markets in which it operates and the overall competitive to own more than 15 per cent of the voting shares, to environment.
Other areas addressed include legal issues nominate the Chairman of the board.
Jonathan Bloomer particular to directors of financial services companies, the was accordingly appointed as the Companys nominated Groups governance arrangements, its Investor Relations director and Roberto Mendoza was appointed as the programme, as well as its remuneration policies.
PRUDENTIAL PLC PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2003 T 2003 35 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED A programme of ongoing professional development has been Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, at least established for all directors for 2004, which will cover sector 20 working days before the meeting.
At the 2004 Annual specific issues, as well as legal, accounting and regulatory General Meeting, as with last years meeting, shareholders changes and developments.
will be given the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Further information on the Companys Financial Calendar at regular intervals and at least every three years, and at the is available on our website at www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting following their attaining the age of 70.
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 2002 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 was passed by the US During 2003 an evaluation was carried out of the Congress in July 2002 to establish new or enhanced performance of the Board and its Committees, in line with standards for corporate accountability in the US.
As a the requirements of the revised Combined Code.
The aim result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock was to improve individual contributions, the effectiveness of Exchange, the Company must comply with the relevant the Board and its Committees and the Groups performance.
The evaluation was carried out by the Chairman, canvassing Accordingly, some changes to business processes and the views of Board members on the performance of the controls have been made to ensure that the Company Board and its Committees against a range of objectives, is in compliance with the applicable sections of the Act.
including conformance with related terms of reference.
The In particular, a Disclosure Committee has been established, Chairman met individually with each non-executive director reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired by the to discuss performance issues.
The overall results of the Group Finance Director and comprising members of evaluation were reviewed by the Board in January 2004. senior management.
The objectives of this Committee are: The non-executive directors met once during the year, to assist the Group Chief Executive and the Group under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Finance Director in designing, implementing and and reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
periodically evaluating the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS As a major institutional investor, the Company is acutely to monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure aware of the importance of maintaining good relations with controls and procedures: its shareholders.
The Company regularly holds discussions to review and provide advice to the Group Chief with major shareholders and a programme of meetings took Executive and Group Finance Director with regard place during 2003.
In addition, regular reviews are carried to the scope and content of all public disclosures of out by the Board of the progress of the programme and the Company which are of material significance to the views of the Companys major shareholders, including the market or investors: a presentation by its external Investor Relations adviser of the results of their annual shareholder survey.
Board to review and consider, and where applicable follow up Members also regularly receive copies of the latest analysts on, matters raised by other components of the disclosure and brokers reports on the Company and the sector, to process, including assessments made by the Group Audit further develop their knowledge and understanding of Committee, the Internal Auditor or the External Auditor external views about the Company.
of the Companys internal controls to the extent they are relevant to the disclosure process.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to London SW1P 3EE on Thursday 6 May 2004 at 11.00am.
support the Group Chief Executives and the Group Finance The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an Directors certifications of the effectiveness of disclosure important forum for both institutional and private shareholders procedures and controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
and encourages attendance by all its shareholders.
At its Annual General Meeting in 2003, the Company indicated FINANCIAL REPORTING the balance of proxies lodged for and against each The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on resolution after it had been dealt with on a show of hands, the performance and financial position of the Group and and the total percentage of share capital voted on all are responsible for preparing the financial statements on resolutions.
This practice provides shareholders present pages 56 to 96 and the supplementary information on with sufficient information regarding the level of support pages 103 to 114.
It is the responsibility of the auditors and opposition to each resolution.
The Company discloses to form an independent opinion, based on their audit the number of the proxy votes cast on each resolution on of the financial statements and their review of the its website after the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of supplementary financial statements.
Their opinions the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to are given on pages 97 and 115. shareholders at the same time as the Annual Report, and the 36 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Risk Committees and Risk Functions in each business unit.
statements for each financial year which give a true and Quarterly risk reports from the business units and Group fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of are reported to the Group Risk Committee covering all risks the Group and of the results for the period and which of Group significance.
Regular reports are also made to the comply with the Companies Act 1985.
In preparing those Group and business unit Audit Committees by management, statements, the directors ensure that suitable accounting internal audit, compliance and legal functions.
policies are selected and applied consistently, that reasonable Also in 2003, a Group Asset Liability Committee was and prudent judgements and estimates are made and that established.
Its membership includes business unit and applicable accounting standards are followed.
They also Group management involved in the operation of the ensure that appropriate accounting records are maintained asset liability, credit and insurance risks framework.
The which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group Asset Liability Committee is the senior management financial position of the Company and enable them to forum responsible for oversight of asset-liability mismatch, prepare the financial statements and that reasonable solvency, market, credit and insurance risks across the steps are taken to safeguard the assets of the Group and Group.
The Group Asset Liability Committee reports to to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
After making appropriate enquiries, the directors consider As a provider of financial services, including insurance, that the Group has adequate resources to continue its the Groups business is the managed acceptance of risk.
operations for the foreseeable future.
They therefore The system of internal control is an essential and integral continue to use the going concern basis in preparing the part of the risk management process.
As part of the financial statements.
annual preparation of its business plan, all of the Groups businesses and functions are required to carry out a INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT review of risks.
This involves an assessment of the impact The Board has responsibility for the Groups system of and likelihood of key risks and of the effectiveness of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The the controls in place to manage them.
The assessment control procedures and systems the Group has established is reviewed regularly throughout the year.
In addition, are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of business units review opportunities and risks to business failure to meet business objectives and can only provide objectives regularly with the Group Chief Executive and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Group Finance Director.
The system of internal controls includes financial, operational and compliance controls Businesses are required to confirm annually that they have and risk management.
undertaken risk management during the year as required by the Group Risk Framework and that they have reviewed the The Group Risk Framework, adopted in 1999, requires effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The results that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish of this review were reported to and reviewed by the Audit processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key Committee, and confirmed that the processes described risks faced by the Group.
The Group risk categorisation above and required by the Group Risk Framework were in model breaks risk down into risk classes, risk categories place throughout the period covered by this report, and and risk components.
The seven risk classes cover business complied with Internal Control: Guidance on the Combined environment risk, strategic risk, credit risk, regulatory Code the Turnbull guidance.
Internal Audit undertakes a compliance risk, investment risk, underwriting risk and review for the Audit Committee of the operation of the risk operational risk, and are intended to encompass all risks management process throughout the Group.
They are used by the business units and Group during risk identification, analysis, aggregation In addition, Internal Audit executes a comprehensive risk and reporting of risk.
based audit plan throughout the Group, from which all significant issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
At the beginning of 2003 a Group Risk Committee was established.
The Group Risk Committee is chaired by The Groups internal control framework includes detailed the Group Finance Director and its membership includes procedures laid down in financial and actuarial procedure representatives of the business unit and Group functions manuals.
The Group prepares an annual business plan who have input into the operation of the Group Risk with three-year projections.
The Group Risk Committee is the senior the Board receive monthly reports on the Group's actual management forum responsible for oversight of the performance against plan, together with updated forecasts.
Group Risk Framework across the business unit and Group functions, including monitoring operational risk and related policies and processes as they are applied throughout the Group.
The Group Risk Committee reports to the Group Chief Executive, who has overall responsibility for the risks faced by the Group.
The Group Risk Committee is supported in this role by the Group Risk Function and the PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 37
