STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE ACHIEVED PROFITS BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The guidance issued in December 2001 by the Association of determine assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard British Insurers entitled 'Supplementary Reporting for Longto past, current and expected future experience and to any Term Insurance Business the Achieved Profits Method ' the relevant external data, and then apply them consistently: guidance requires the directors to prepare supplementary state whether applicable accounting standards have been information presented under the achieved profits method in followed in relation to the residual assets, subject to any accordance with the guidance.
material departures disclosed and explained in the An explanation of the achieved profits basis of reporting supplementary information: is provided on pages 25 and 26 of the Group's financial prepare the supplementary information on the going concern statements.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will In preparing the achieved profits basis supplementary continue in business.
information, the directors are required to: select suitable methodologies and then apply them consistently: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO PRUDENTIAL PLC ON THE ACHIEVED PROFITS BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION We have audited the supplementary information on pages 103 BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION to 114 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003.
The We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing supplementary information has been prepared in accordance Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit with the guidance issued in December 2001 by the Association includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to of British Insurers entitled Supplementary Reporting for Longthe amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
Term Insurance Business the Achieved Profits Method the It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the page 106.
The supplementary information should be read in supplementary information, and of whether the accounting conjunction with the primary financial statements which are policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, on pages 56 to 63. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been information and explanations which we considered necessary undertaken so that we might state to the Company those in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for assurance that the achieved profits basis supplementary no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we information is free from material misstatement, whether caused do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, the Company, for our audit work, for this report, or for the we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS OPINION AND AUDITORS In our opinion, the achieved profits basis supplementary As described above the directors responsibilities include information for the year ended 31 December 2003 has been preparing the supplementary information on the achieved properly prepared in accordance with the guidance using the profits basis in accordance with the guidance issued by methodology and assumptions set out on page 106. the Association of British Insurers.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance KPMG Audit Plc and the terms of our engagement.
Chartered Accountants Under the terms of engagement we are required to report London to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary 19 March 2004 information has been properly prepared in accordance with the guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on page 106.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
