CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 34 Capita The Capita Group Plc and its subsidiaries the Group is The following committees of the Group Board deal with specic committed to high standards of corporate governance for aspects of the Groups affairs.
which the Group Board is accountable to shareholders.
Nomination Committee The Group acknowledges the publication of the revised The Nomination Committee is chaired by Peter Cawdron and Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council on comprises the Non-Executive Directors.
This revised Code supersedes and replaces the attends by invitation only.
The Committee is responsible for Combined Code issued by the Hampel Committee on Corporate proposing candidates for appointment to the Group Board, Governance in June 1998 and applies for reporting years having regard to the necessary balance and structure of the beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In appropriate cases recruitment consultants The Group is reviewing its procedures as appropriate in are used to assist the process.
All Directors are subject to this context, and will report on its implementation of the re-election at least every three years.
revised Code in its Annual Report for the year ending Remuneration Committee 31 December 2004.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making For the year ended 31 December 2003 the following recommendations to the Group Board on the Groups framework statement describes how the principles of corporate of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee governance as set out in the old Combined Code Section 1 determines the contract terms, remuneration and other benets are applied within the Group and explains the Groups for each of the Executive Directors, including  with those provisions.
related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation Statement by the Directors on compliance payments.
The Group Board itself determines the remuneration with the provisions of the Combined Code of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors, although the Executive Chairman The Group has been in full compliance with the current attends meetings by invitation.
The Committee is chaired by applicable provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Peter Cawdron and is advised by a leading rm of remuneration throughout the year except that the Non-Executive Directors consultants, Inbucon Consulting.
do not have xed term appointments.
They are, in accordance with the Articles of Association, subject to re-election every The report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages three years.
The important point of principle is that the 36 to 40.
Non-Executive Directors continue to maintain a vigorous Audit Committee independence and the Group Board encourages such independence without reservation.
The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Robert Alcock.
Audit Committee meetings The workings of the Group Board and its committees are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Chairman, The Group Board Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Committee meets not less than three times annually.
The Group Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting the direction of the business and monitoring the Groups The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of ongoing affairs.
It is also responsible for ensuring an effective financial reporting and related matters including the half-year internal control environment that identies and manages and annual accounts before their submission to the Group appropriately the risks associated with the business.
The Committee is required to focus in particular on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group, During the year the Group Board continued to comprise and any significant areas of judgment that materially impact four Executive Directors the Executive Chairman, the Chief reported results.
It is also responsible for monitoring the internal Executive, and two other Executive Directors together with controls that are operated by management to ensure the a senior independent Non-Executive Director and two other integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups The biographies of all the Directors appear on page 30. external auditors, and advises the Group Board on the Taken together, these biographies evidence the necessary appointment, independence and objectivity of the external breadth and depth of relevant experience within the Group auditors and on their remuneration both for statutory audit and Board to ensure the effective and independent discharge non-audit work.
It also discusses the nature, scope and timing of its responsibilities in directing the Group.
of the statutory audit with the external auditors.
The Committee The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility also reviews the appropriateness of the annual internal audit to constructively and independently challenge the business programme for the Group, and ensures that the business development plans that are proposed by executive management risk management and internal audit functions are adequately and to effectively monitor the performance of the management sponsored and resourced.
team in the delivery of agreed business objectives.
Relations with shareholders The Group Board is scheduled to meet nine times annually, Capita is committed to its shareholders and communications and all Group Board Directors are provided with complete, with shareholders are given high priority by the Group and its timely and relevant information to ensure that informed Directors.
The Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 13 includes judgments are made in the pursuit of the Groups objectives.
a detailed review of the business and future developments.
In addition, there is an established procedure for all Group There is regular, open dialogue with institutional shareholders Board Directors to take independent professional advice as including presentations after the Groups preliminary may be necessary in the furtherance of their duties, at the announcement of the year end results and at the expense of the Group.
In addition the Group holds Business Update Briengs A statement of Group Board Directors responsibilities in twice a year, one-to-one meetings and also visits to our respect of the Groups annual report and accounts is set out overseas investors.
All investors can view up to date financial on page 32. and business information on Capitas website www.
The Group Board delegates the operational management of the The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and Group to the Executive Management Board.
Its structure and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
composition is set out on page 31.
A schedule of matters is The Board aims to ensure that all the Non-Executive Directors reserved for the attention of the Group Board.
are available at AGMs to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 29 April 2004 can be found in the Notice of the AGM, which is enclosed separately.
35 Capita Corporate governance Internal control Group Internal Audit reports to the Group Risk Management function and monitors compliance with Group policies and The Group Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its operated across the business.
The work of the internal audit effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, amongst function is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group others, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use as determined by the process of risk identication and or disposition: maintaining proper accounting records: and the assessment discussed above.
In addition, regulatory reliability of financial information used within the business or for issues and compliance matters are monitored and resolved publication.
Such procedures are designed to manage rather by a Group Compliance Manager working with local than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives management teams.
Both the Group Internal Audit and and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Regulatory Compliance functions report through the Head against material errors, losses or fraud.
of Risk Management to the Group Finance Director and the The key procedures that the Group Board has established are Audit Committee designed to provide effective internal control within the Group the Audit Committee routinely monitors the internal controls and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors that are in force and any perceived gaps in the control on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered environment.
The Audit Committee also considers and Accountants in England and Wales.
Such procedures have been determines relevant action in respect of any control issues in place throughout the year and up to 25 February 2004, the raised by the internal and external auditors.
date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
In the case of companies acquired during the year, all such entities were the The Group Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this subject of appropriate due diligence.
The internal controls in system of internal control.
The key mechanisms used by the place in these companies have been reviewed against the Group Board to achieve this include regular reports from the Groups benchmarks post acquisition and have been or are Executive Management Board: periodic updates from the Audit being integrated into the Groups systems and standards.
Committee based on its review of risk management and internal audit reports by the relevant group functions: discussions with The Groups key internal control procedures include the and reports from the external auditors, and regulatory reports.
following: In addition, the Divisional Board Directors and Divisional Finance the Executive Management Board has responsibility to Directors provide annual conrmation that the Divisions internal set, communicate and monitor the application of policies, controls and systems are designed to provide accurate financial procedures and standards in areas including operations: information and to adequately safeguard, verify and maintain finance: legal, commercial and regulatory compliance: accountability of its assets: and that provision is made for all human resources and health and safety: information amounts known to be irrecoverable at the balance sheet date: security and property management and the environment and that accruals are accurately stated and, to the extent that they are known, all potential liabilities have been notied.
authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions that make up the Group is delegated to their Social responsibility respective Managing Directors within limits set by the Capita has always taken very seriously its corporate Executive Management Board under powers delegated by responsibility towards staff, the community and the environment.
The appointment of executives to the It has a dedicated sustainability area on its corporate website most senior positions within the Group, other than Group www.
Reporting on progress towards sustainability Board appointments, requires the approval of the Executive is the first step towards formally integrating corporate social Management Board.
The Executive Management Board responsibility CSR into the overall practices, policies and establishes key operational, functional and financial systems through which the business is managed.
reporting standards for application across the whole Group.
These are supplemented by operating standards set by local For the third year running the Group has been included in the management teams, as required for the type of business and FTSE4Good Indices Series for socially responsible investment.
geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit The index is for the use of investors seeking companies with strong records of corporate social responsibility.
It is primarily comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the Groups involvement in local communities across the UK the individual business unit level and summarised at the which has led to the Groups inclusion.
Financial plans are reviewed and approved by both the Executive Management Board and the Our overall policies and approach to CSR are agreed by the Group Board.
Results are monitored routinely by means of Executive Management Board.
In addition, the Group Finance comprehensive management accounts and actual progress Director sponsors Capitas CSR agenda at Group Board level.
against plan is challenged directly and in detail by Executive Environmental matters Directors on a Group-wide basis at the business unit level each month The Groups business has a limited direct impact on the environment.
However, Capita recognises that its day-to-day capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary control activities impact on the environment in both positive and with appropriate authority levels.
For expenditure beyond negative ways.
Capita is committed to a sustainable approach specified levels, detailed written proposals have to be to environmental issues, including the use of natural resources submitted to the Group Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions and energy.
We have embarked on a group-wide environment is the subject of appropriate consideration, review and programme to build on the good work done to date.
This approval by the Group Board programme will be rolled out across the Group during 2004. systems and procedures are in place in the Group to identify, Further details on Capitas approach to the environment can be assess and mitigate the major business risks, including found on page 28 and on our website www.
credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, regulatory and fraud.
Exposure to these risks is monitored as an integral part of the monthly challenge to business results discussed above, and these are escalated to the Executive Management Board and the Group Board as appropriate.
Risk management disciplines are monitored and developed by a Group Risk Management function, which works closely with operational businesses to maintain appropriate and effective processes to meet continually evolving requirements
