Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting Auditors The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hotel  LLP have confirmed their willingness to Continental, One Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, London W1V continue in ofce as auditors of the Company and a resolution for 0QY on Friday 28 May 2004 at 10.30am.
their re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to By order of the directors shareholders.
Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the J V Miller meeting which will include items of ordinary and special business Group Company Secretary that are explained in the letter.
London, 10 March 2004 Corporate Governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code approval of any significant changes to accounting practices The Group complied throughout 2003 with the provisions of or policies.
section 1 of The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code other than A.
2.1 of legal action against its directors.
appointment of senior independent director.
The division of responsibilities between John Napier, the Chairman, John Baker, who retired as Deputy Chairman on 30 September and Andy Haste, the Group Chief Executive, have been clearly 2003, was also the senior independent director.
The Board has established by way of written job specications, which have been since entered a period of significant restructuring.
The Board The Articles of Association of the Company require directors to The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of submit themselves for re-election every three years.
The Board met the Company and the Group in a manner that is in the best 13 times during 2003.
Ten Board meetings were scheduled before interests of both shareholder and regulatory requirements and is the start of 2003 and three Board meetings were arranged on an consistent with the Memorandum and Articles of Association and ad hoc basis.
Committees The Board is also ultimately responsible to the Financial Services Details of the chairmen and membership of the Audit & Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with the Groups Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration committees are set out regulatory obligations.
Adherence to the FSA solvency regime in the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report is monitored at a Group level.
and the Remuneration Report respectively.
The Board also has a Risk Committee the BRC, chaired by Andy Haste.
The BRC The principal matters reserved to the Board, which follow, include manages all aspects of risk faced by the Group in accordance with items which are delegated to committees, but ultimately require the Board approved risk appetite, which is set out in policies, Board approval: control limits and other mechanisms in relation to such risks.
approval of the Groups long term objectives and commercial Further details about the BRC can be found in the Risk section of strategy: this report.
changes to the Groups management and control structure: Independent directors The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors who have approval of the Groups overall risk appetite: served during the year were independent.
At all times during the year, annual review of internal control arrangements: at least half of the Board was comprised of non-executive directors.
reviewing corporate governance arrangements: Professional development On appointment, new directors are subject to a full, formal approval of the annual operating and capital budgets: induction programme and receive appropriate training and changes to the Groups capital structure and approval of all guidance on their duties and responsibilities.
Continuing significant capital and other expenditure: professional development is offered to established directors: for example, directors attended a course devised by the Group on the approval of proposals to raise finance from external sources, FSAs approved persons regime.
including the setting of limits on the Groups external borrowings: Resources approval of treasury policy: Directors have access to the services and advice of the Group approval of the Groups preliminary and quarterly results, Company Secretary, and may take additional independent including interim and final dividends: and professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their 40 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit & Compliance, Nomination classes, stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance protection, and and Remuneration committees have been considered by their members other appropriate measures.
with a view to ensuring that there are available adequate resources to Governance discharge their duties.
The Group has adopted a risk management model known as the Risk management and internal control three lines of defence governance model.
The framework for the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of oversight and management of risk is as follows: risk management and internal control and for reviewing their Management the first line of defence, in setting strategy, effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than performance, measurement, establishment and maintenance of eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only internal control and risk management in the business.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Risk assessment the second line, formal risk management framework within which the Group policies and minimum Executive management has the responsibility for establishing and standards are set and objective oversight and challenge of risk implementing appropriate systems and controls in their own areas management across the Group is achieved.
This includes the BRC, of remit.
To ensure that risk management and control is embedded supported by Group and Regional risk functions.
throughout the Group, a central risk management function Group Risk has been established.
Independent assurance the third line of defence, providing independent and objective assurance of the effectiveness of the The Group risk policy defines risk as the possibility that an action, Groups systems of internal control established by the first and inaction, event or failure will prevent or hinder the Group from second lines of defence.
This is the Audit & Compliance achieving its strategic objectives or, ultimately, from maximising Committee, supported by internal audit.
shareholder value with full and proper regard for the protection of policyholders and other stakeholders.
Recognising this denition, Delegated executive authority the risk management framework uses the following principles in In order to implement the above model, individual executives need to managing risk: have clear levels of authority.
To this end the Group Chief Executive has issued a series of licences to all of his direct reports within the culture the Group fosters a corporate culture, which accepts risk business.
The purpose of these licences is to communicate authorities taking as fundamental to its business.
However, risk identication, delegated from the Group Chief Executive to each Regional chief measurement, monitoring and control are indispensable for the executive and Corporate Centre direct reports.
continuing strength of the organisation: Each executive then has the responsibility of documenting formal education the Group promotes risk awareness among all its delegation of these authorities, which define the parameters under employees.
It is committed to embedding risk management which their staff can commit the Group to risk.
practices in the day to day management of its business through increasing the employees awareness of risk: Group risk policy statements Group risk policy statements set out the minimum standards to be enterprise the Groups perspective of risk extends to all activities maintained by the Groups operations in order to manage their risks.
within the organisation and covers both existing and emerging risks: All the policy statements are approved by the BRC and are mandatory consistent standards the Group recognises the importance of policies that business units must comply with.
Breaches which are adhering to consistent high standards of governance and risk identied by Regions, or through monitoring activity, must be management throughout its worldwide operations: and escalated to the appropriate level, with material breaches being risk ownership the Group recognises that ultimate responsibility reported to the BRC.
for the management of risk lies with the Board, but day to day In the 2002 Corporate Governance report we stated that we had responsibility for the management of risk rests with the produced an overview Group risk policy and that there was management of each business area.
Management have authority considerable further progress scheduled in 2003.
There are now and exibility to act and make decisions in order to manage risk in a number of policy statements covering business continuity, delegated their area, but they must do so within a strict set of Group policies authority executive licences, delegated authority insurance, Group and standards.
risk, multinational, operational outsourcing, pure fronting, The BRC is formed of members of the Board and executive reinsurance, reinsurance credit risk and underwriting and claims.
Its purpose is to define the Groups risk appetite, agree policy and minimum standards and provide oversight and challenge of Accompanying these policies there are a number of detailed the Groups risk management processes.
The BRC achieves these documents setting out best practice in key areas of these policies.
objectives by considering reports from risk specialists both internal Further work is scheduled for 2004 to create further policies and and external to the Group, and by reviewing Group level risk to review and update existing ones, as appropriate.
The Board, through the Audit & Risk categories Compliance Committee considers that these reports give it sufficient Within the Group the risk elements are viewed under the information upon which to review the effectiveness of the systems of following headings: internal control as required by provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
Insurance underwriting, claims and reinsurance risk.
Group risk appetite In order to establish the parameters within which risk must be Operational risk.
managed the Group has established a clear statement of Group risk Credit, market and liquidity risk.
The current statement sets out macro parameters of management, sets business volumes for certain higher risk insurance Detailed sub classications are being developed but the following Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 41 previous contents next Corporate Governance continued details some of the key current practices, tools and other All treaty purchases are analysed using a number of sophisticated arrangements for each risk category.
analytical modelling tools to analyse the Groups exposure to risk.
These tools allow us to produce financial projections from a number Insurance risk of likely outcomes and not just the expected outcome, providing a The Groups general insurance activities are primarily concerned with much greater understanding of the potential exposures.
the pricing, acceptance and management of risks from our customers.
In understanding and accepting risk the Group is committing its Operational risk Balance Sheet to the payment of claims and therefore these risks must Operational risk exists in every facet of an organisation, including be adequately understood and controlled.
those areas that are not viewed as operating units.
As such, all areas of the Group and major outsource providers are involved in The management of the underwriting and claims risks uses a number addressing and controlling operational risk.
of key tools, including the licensing of countries to write certain higher risk classes of business, reviewing the performance and The Group is in the process of developing an operational risk management of all the individual insurance portfolios throughout the management framework, the objective of which is to effectively, Group and the investigation of potential emerging insurance risks.
systematically and proportionately identify, assess and contain operational risks throughout the Group.
There is to be greater Territorial underwriting licences emphasis on unusual risks that can threaten the organisation and This was introduced in 2003 for all higher risk classes of insurance.
ordinary risks that, if allowed to escalate, could weaken and similarly These classes of business are clearly dened in the underwriting and threaten the organisation.
Specically, this translates into: claims policy statement and are those classes that we consider to require additional expertise and knowledge within the relevant ensuring that statistically average operational losses expected country or region, in order to manage them correctly.
losses are understood and monitored, remain within tolerance levels, and are properly priced for and or provisioned.
Examples Licences must be applied for annually by each business that plans would include common transactional processing errors: and to write these classes.
In deciding whether to issue a licence, the insurance risk team takes into account the Groups appetite to write ensuring that statistically unusual potential losses unexpected this class of business, the expertise of the operation s concerned to losses are identied, examined, subjected to scenario testing, control the associated risks, past results and the future potential for quantied to the extent possible, and protected against through profit.
Going forward, capital utilisation will also form an explicit capital.
An example would be the loss of a mainframe platform.
A Groupwide loss database of operational losses greater than 10,000 The terms of the licence, amongst other conditions, set the maximum is under development along with a standardised set of risk indicators gross and net risk acceptance and the maximum gross and net and a Groupwide remedial actions tracking system.
The risk review written premium for the class of cover in that territory.
visits mentioned earlier are used to challenge business units reported losses, risk assessments, metrics and remedial action progress.
The portfolio review process This is a mandatory process that was introduced in 2001 requiring in The Group has introduced a process end software to assess risks from depth reviews of each portfolio to be carried out twice a year.
The both a ground up and a top down approach, known as business portfolio review requires each operation, in conjunction with Group risk appraisal process BRAP.
This is a Groupwide risk assessment Risk to look not only at the past and current results for the given process and has three main elements: portfolio but also to look at the business plans, the market conditions, audit reports, the relevant experience of the staff and a high level risk assessment, which reviews risks from the top down: succession plans.
Altogether some 225 reviews are generated each a detailed, ground up risk self assessment, which is completed cycle.
Ultimately a detailed country review is produced by Group Risk, using the software tool RSA@Risk: and which is sent to the relevant executive officer and overall summary reports are presented to the BRC.
an external events and material change assessment, which reviews risks during times of significant change to the organisation, Emerging risks infrastructure and business operating environment.
These are risks that have been identied as potentially affecting the Group but for which the amount of risk has not yet been identied.
Credit, market and liquidity risks Existing or potential future risk exposures are investigated in a The primary sources of credit risk within the Group are reinsurance structured way, using internal and external resources and appropriate counterparties credit risk inherent within insurance contracts, proposals for actions to mitigate, contain or remove these risks are including economically triggered contracts ETCs, treasury and made to the BRC.
investment activities and premium debtors.
Reinsurance Over the past year, work has focussed on the further development Where investigations suggest that a genuine risk exists in a future book and implementation of a Group reinsurance credit risk policy, which of business that is beyond the Groups risk appetite, an underwriting includes requirements on the use of approved reinsurance directive is developed in partnership with the businesses and counterparties for other than fide minimis transactions.
Group Risk communicated to the senior Regional risk and underwriting directors.
has also focussed closely on the management of risks arising from ETCs and has instituted controls over these exposures and active The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite is set and agreed by monitoring, including reporting to the BRC.
the BRC and published and disseminated via the Group reinsurance policy statement.
With regard to credit risk and other risks arising from treasury and A central Group reinsurance team manages the purchase of investment management activities, a range of counterparty limits and Groupwide reinsurance treaty contracts and additionally all Regional other controls are in place to restrict exposure to these risks.
The operations have to apply for and obtain authority from the BRC for global investment strategy team oversees the execution of the treaty reinsurance placements.
Groups investment strategy, including approval of investment criteria 42 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next and limits within delegated authority set by the BRC.
A life investment Basis of accounts strategy team has been formed from the Royal & Sun Alliance Life The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate Holdings Limited board.
resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future having given consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed in Risk review visits the financial statements and have therefore prepared the financial In addition to setting policy and standards Group Risk undertakes an statements on a going concern basis.
annual cycle of risk review visits to Regional operations, reviewing regional risk management practices.
These reviews cover insurance, Report of the Audit & Compliance Committee operational, credit market and liquidity risks.
Membership The reviews are conducted through an on site visit to the country During the year, the following directors served on the Audit & or operation and take two to four days each to complete, depending Compliance Committee: on the size of the operation.
Edward Lea, Chairman appointed 9 October 2003, Bob Ayling, These visits base themselves on the requirements and obligations of Stephen Hill, John Maxwell appointed 9 October 2003, John Baker, the Groups policy statements and are intended to assess the Chairman retired 30 September 2003 and Nicholas Barber retired application of risk management processes by the first line of 30 September 2003. defence.
In addition, they cover the financial performance of the All members of the Committee are independent non-executive operation, as relevant to risk management.
Both Edward Lea and John Maxwell have recent and The main operations of the Group will be reviewed annually, whilst relevant financial experience.
the smaller operations of our International Region will be reviewed Principal duties once every two years.
Primary markets such as the UK, US, Canada The Committees principal duties are as follows: and Scandinavia all require separate visits.
For the smaller countries such as those in Latin America and Asia, one meeting may be to coordinate and have oversight of the financial reporting process: sufficient to cover several countries.
to monitor compliance: The FSA Prudential Source Book PSB The FSA has produced a number of consultation papers in its build up to have oversight of the internal and external audit functions: to the launch of its PSB.
In order to ensure compliance with the PSB to manage the Groups systems of internal controls: in time for its implementation in late 2004 we have a specic project looking at both a gap analysis of the requirements and a full capital to review the Groups financial performance: and risk management transformation programme.
This ensures PSB to review all matters relating to the legal integrity of the Group: and compliance but also ensures that our risk management capabilities are t for purpose and that we embed economic capital management to provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk principles within all levels of the organisation.
Annual General Meeting AGM In addition, adherence to the FSA solvency regime is monitored at a AGM notices are despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days Group level.
In this respect the oversight and challenge of the before the relevant meeting and contain separate resolutions on each operational, financial and risk management processes of the Groups issue, including a resolution to receive the Annual Report & Accounts.
regulated entities in the UK is also the responsibility of the Committee.
At AGMs, the Chairman of the Group and the chairmen of the Audit The terms of reference of the Audit & Compliance Committee, which & Compliance, Nomination and Remuneration committees make explain its role and the authority delegated to it by the directors, are themselves available to take questions from shareholders.
available on the Companys website at www.
com or on The Company has put arrangements in place with its registrars to request from the Group Company Secretary.
ensure that all proxy votes are received and accurately accounted for.
The level of proxies lodged on each resolution, including votes for, Internal audit against and abstained are published on the Groups website at The Group has an internal audit function, whose activities are www.
monitored and reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for approving the appointment and removal of the Group Directors responsibilities Chief Auditor, and for ensuring that adequate access to information The directors are required to ensure that adequate accounting records and resources is given to the holder of that position.
are maintained so as to disclose at any time, and with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the Group.
They are also External auditors responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the The Committee meets regularly with internal and external auditors Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The partner of the Groups external auditors who is responsible for the audit attends all meetings.
Each They must present financial statements for each financial year which year, the Committee considers the performance of the external give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and auditors prior to proposition of a resolution on their re-appointment Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing such and remuneration at the AGM.
financial statements, they are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them on a consistent During the year,  LLP were, on a number of basis using reasonable and prudent judgement: occasions, engaged as advisors.
Such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol developed by the Board available on the state whether or not applicable accounting standards have been Companys website.
This gives guidance to businesses within the followed and explain any material departures: and Group on the appropriateness of engaging external auditors as use the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The Committee is satisfied that this protocol has been Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 43 previous contents next Corporate Governance continued followed and there are no matters that would compromise the Principal duties independence of the auditors or affect the performance of their The Committees principal duties are to review the structure, size and statutory duties.
 LLP have also considered composition of the Board and to evaluate the directors skills, their position and have confirmed their independence to the knowledge and experience.
It has access to external recruitment Company in writing.
consultants and can undertake open advertisement to ll vacancies if this is considered appropriate.
The Committee considers the The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that leadership needs and succession planning of the Group when making a resolution be put to the 2004 AGM for the re-appointment of decisions on new appointments.
Resolutions to re-appoint directors whose retirement by rotation falls Whistleblowing due at an AGM are not proposed automatically, but are subject to the The Companys UK whistleblowing policy was incorporated into approval of the Board, taking into account the recommendations of a global whistleblowing policy during the year, and it is the the Committee.
Committees responsibility to keep the procedures laid out in that policy under review.
The global whistleblowing policy enables The terms of reference of the Committee, which explains its role and employees who wish to raise serious concerns to do so in good faith the authority delegated to it by the directors, are available on the within a controlled environment.
Employees will be offered such Companys website at www.
com or on request from safeguards and support as may be necessary to protect their personal the Group Company Secretary.
integrity and, where possible, identity.
Executive directors are not permitted to take on more than one nonReport of the Nomination Committee executive directorship of another FTSE 100 company.
None of the executive directors currently holds any directorships of another FTSE Membership 100 company.
During the year, the following directors served on the Committee: By order of the directors John Napier, Chairman appointed 5 March 2003, Bob Ayling, J V Miller Sir Patrick Gillam, Chairman retired 31 March 2003, John Baker Group Company Secretary retired 30 September 2003 and Carole St. Mark retired London, 10 March 2004 30 September 2003.
All of the non-executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Board to be independent.
44 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next
