Governance Contents 111 Contents Board of directors and secretary 112 Report of the directors 114 Corporate governance 118 Directors remuneration report 122 Directors interests in shares 132 Statement of directors responsibilities 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Governance Board of directors and secretary Sir George Mathewson Fred Goodwin Sir Iain Vallance Sir Angus Grossart 112 Fred Watt Gordon Pell Norman McLuskie Emilio Botin Sir Steve Robson Iain Robertson Juan Inciarte Eileen Mackay Jim Currie Bob Scott Colin Buchan Lawrence Fish Peter Sutherland Miller McLean, Secretary Board of directors and secretary Chairman the trustees of the National Fred Watt age 43 an international adviser to Bob Scott age 62 Sir George Mathewson age 63 Galleries of Scotland.
He has FCIBS Eversheds and a consultant to CBE CBE, DUniv, LLD, FRSE, FCIBS also served on the boards of a C Butera & Andrews UK Limited.
C, N, R Chairman C Chairman, N Chairman wide range of other companies Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in in the UK, the USA and Canada.
Appointed to the Board in Juan Inciarte age 51 January 2001, Mr Scott is an September 1987 and as September 2000, Mr Watt is a Appointed to the Board in Australian national.
He is the Chairman in April 2001, Sir Executive directors chartered accountant.
He was February 1998, Mr Inciarte is a senior independent director.
Mr George has a wide Fred Goodwin age 45 formerly finance director of Spanish national.
He is a general Scott has many years background in finance, DUniv, FCIBS, FCIB Wassall plc.
manager of Santander Central experience in the international technology and management Group Chief Executive Hispano Group in charge of insurance business and played and spent some of his career C Non-executive directors Europe and consumer finance.
a leading role in the in the United States.
He Appointed to the Board in Emilio Botin age 69 He is a director of several consolidation of the UK 113 became Group Chief Executive August 1998, Mr Goodwin is a Appointed to the Board in Santander Central Hispano insurance industry.
He is a in January 1992 and in March chartered accountant.
He was February 1989, Mr Botin is a Group subsidiaries and a former group chief executive of 2000, he was appointed formerly chief executive and Spanish national.
He is number of Spanish and CGNU plc and chairman of the Executive Deputy Chairman.
director, Clydesdale Bank PLC chairman of Santander Central European companies including board of the Association of He is president of the British and Yorkshire Bank PLC.
He is Hispano, S. A. and several CC-Bank AG.
He is chairman Bankers Association and a chairman of The Princes Trust Santander Central Hispano director of First Wachovia and of Yell Group plc, a nondirector of Santander Central and a former president of the Group subsidiaries and a San Paolo IMI S. P. A. executive director of Swiss Hispano, S. A.
The Scottish Chartered Institute of Bankers director of a number of Reinsurance Company Zurich, Investment Trust PLC and the in Scotland.
Spanish companies including Eileen Mackay age 60 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Institute of International BANKINTER S. A. Mr Botin is CB, FCIBS Group plc and Focus Wickes Finance, Inc.
He was chief Lawrence Fish age 59 chairman of Universia.
net, an A, R Group Limited, and a trustee of executive of the Scottish Chairman, President and Chief internet venture between Appointed to the Board in May the Crimestoppers Trust.
Development Agency from Executive Officer of Citizens Santander Central Hispano 1996, Miss Mackay is a former 1981 to 1987.
Financial Group, Inc. and 650 universities in Spain, senior UK civil servant who Peter Sutherland age 57 Appointed to the Board in Portugal and the main held posts in Scotland, HM KCMG Vice-chairmen January 1993, Mr Fish is an countries in Latin America.
He Treasury and the Cabinet N Sir Iain Vallance age 60 American national.
He is a is also a director of Shinsei Office and was principal Appointed to the Board in FCIBS career banker and a director of Bank Limited, a Japanese finance officer at The Scottish January 2001, Mr Sutherland is C Textron Inc. and the Federal bank.
She is a director of an Irish national.
He is a former Appointed to the Board in Reserve Bank of Boston.
He is Edinburgh Investment Trust attorney general of Ireland and January 1993 and as Vicealso a director of the Financial Colin Buchan age 49 plc, Scottish Financial from 1985 to 1989 was the Chairman in March 1994, Sir Services Roundtable, a trustee A Acting Chairman, R Enterprise and the British European commissioner Iain is an experienced of The Brookings Institution and a Appointed to the Board in Library.
She is also chairman of responsible for competition businessman who is currently director of numerous community June 2002, Mr Buchan was the trustees of the David Hume policy.
He is chairman of BP chairman of the European organisations in the USA.
educated in South Africa and Institute and a trustee of the Plc and Goldman Sachs Service Forum and a director spent the early part of his Carnegie Trust for the International and a director of of the supervisory board of Norman McLuskie age 59 career in South Africa and the Universities of Scotland.
Investor AB and Siemens AG.
He is also a FCIBS Far East.
He has considerable Telefonaktiebolaget LM member of the European Chairman, Retail Direct international investment Iain Robertson age 58 Ericsson.
He was formerly Advisory Council of the Appointed to the Board in June banking experience, as well as CBE, FCIBS chairman of Allied Irish Bank Rothschild Group and the 1992, Mr McLuskie is a experience in very large risk Chairman, Corporate Banking and a director general of GATT European Advisory Committee chartered accountant.
He is management in the equities and Financial Markets and the World Trade of the NYSE.
He has also held also chairman of MasterCard business.
He was formerly a Appointed to the Board in Organisation.
a range of other positions Europe SPRL and a member of member of the group January 1993, Mr Robertson is including president of the CBI, the board of MasterCard management board of UBS AG a chartered accountant.
He is Group Secretary and chairman of British International Inc.
He was and head of equities of UBS chairman of British Empire General Counsel Telecommunications Plc and formerly chief executive, Retail Warburg.
He is a director of Securities and General Trust plc.
Miller McLean age 54 deputy chairman of the Direct.
Merrill Lynch World Mining FCIBS Financial Reporting Council.
Trust Plc, Merrill Lynch Gold Sir Steve Robson age 60 C He was also a member of the Gordon Pell age 53 Limited, Royal Scottish National A Mr McLean was appointed board of directors of the Mobil FCIBS, FCIB Orchestra Society Limited, Appointed to the Board in July group secretary in August Corporation.
Chairman, Retail Banking and Standard Life Investments 2001, Sir Steve is a former 1994.
He is a trustee of the Wealth Management Limited, UBS Securities senior UK civil servant, with Industry and Parliament Trust, Sir Angus Grossart age 66 Appointed to the Board in Canada Inc. and World Mining responsibility for a wide variety a non-executive chairman of CBE, DBA, LLD, FRSE, DL, FCIBS March 2000, Mr Pell was Investment Company Limited.
His early The Whitehall and Industry C formerly group director of career included the post of Group and a director of The Appointed to the Board in Lloyds TSB UK Retail Banking Jim Currie age 62 Private Secretary to the Scottish Parliament and September 1985 and as Vicebefore joining National D. Litt Chancellor of the Exchequer Business Exchange.
He is a Chairman in April 1996, Sir Westminster Bank Plc as a R and secondment to ICFC, now former vice-chairman of Banco Angus is an advocate and director in February 2000 and Appointed to the Board in 3i.
He was also a Second Santander, Portugal S. A. chartered accountant with a then becoming chief executive, November 2001, Dr Currie is a Permanent Secretary of HM career in merchant banking.
He is currently highly experienced senior Treasury, where he was He is chairman of Noble also a director of Race for international civil servant who managing director of the A member of the Audit Grossart Limited, Scottish Daily Opportunity and Southampton spent many years working in Finance and Regulation Committee Record and Sunday Mail University Development Trust.
He is a nonC member of the Chairmans Limited and Edinburgh US was formerly director general executive director of Cazenove Advisory Group Tracker Trust plc.
His at the European Commission Group Plc, Xstrata Plc and N member of the Nominations directorships of public with responsibility for the EUs Partnerships UK plc.
Committee companies include Scottish environmental policy and R member of the Remuneration Committee and Newcastle Plc and Trinity director general for Customs independent non-executive Mirror Plc.
He is a trustee of and Excise and Indirect director the National Heritage Memorial Taxation.
He is also a director Fund and a former chairman of of British Nuclear Fuels PLC, Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Board of directors and secretary Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together Business developments with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003.
In January 2003, 49% of the Royal Banks economic interest in Royal Bank of Scotland Unit Trust Management was sold to Profit and dividends Aviva plc.
The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the company for the year ended 31 December 2003 amounted to In January 2003, the entire issued ordinary share capital of 2,315 million after preference dividends of 261 million and NatWest was transferred from the company to the Royal Bank.
the Additional Value Shares dividend of 1,463 million compared with 1,971 million for the year ended 31 December In January 2003, Citizens completed the acquisition of 2002, as set out in the consolidated profit and loss account on Pennsylvania-based commercial bank, Commonwealth 114 page 141.
Bancorp, Inc. An interim dividend of 14.6p per ordinary share was paid on In June 2003, RBS completed the acquisition of Nordisk 10 October 2003 totalling 431 million 2002 368 million.
Renting AB, a Swedish leasing company.
The directors now recommend that a final dividend of 35.7p per ordinary share totalling 1,059 million 2002 899 million In July 2003, Citizens completed the acquisition of Port be paid on 4 June 2004 to members on the register at the Financial Corp. the holding company of the Massachusetts close of business on 12 March 2004.
If this recommendation is savings bank, CambridgePort Bank.
approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting on 29 April 2004, the retained profit for the year will amount to 825 In July 2003, RBS completed the purchase of the credit card million 2002 704 million.
Subject to the approval of the and personal loans portfolios of Frankfurt-based Santander dividend by shareholders at the annual general meeting, Direkt Bank.
shareholders will be offered the choice of taking ordinary shares in lieu of cash in respect of the final dividend.
In July 2003, RBS completed the sale of the Miami-based Latin American private banking operations of Coutts Group.
The final dividend of 55p per share on the Additional Value Shares issued in connection with the acquisition of NatWest In September 2003, RBS completed the acquisition of was paid on 1 December 2003, totalling 1.5 billion.
Activities and business review In September 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of The company is a holding company owning the entire issued Thistle Group Holdings, Co. the holding company of ordinary share capital of the Royal Bank, the principal direct Pennsylvania-based Roxborough Manayunk Bank.
This operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group acquisition was completed in January 2004. comprises the company and all its subsidiary and associated undertakings, including the Royal Bank and NatWest.
The In October 2003, RBS announced that it had agreed terms for Royal Bank and NatWest and their subsidiary undertakings are a recommended acquisition for cash of First Active plc.
This engaged principally in providing a comprehensive range of acquisition was completed in January 2004. banking, insurance and other financial services.
Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown in In October 2003, Citizens completed the acquisition of Note 17.
A review of the business for the year to 31 December Community Bancorp, Inc. the holding company of 2003, of recent events and of likely future developments is Massachusetts-based Community National Bank.
contained in the operating and financial review.
In November 2003, Coutts Bank Switzerland Limited completed the acquisition of Zurich-based private bank, Bank von Ernst & Cie AG.
Going concern The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the accounts.
Report of the directors Ordinary share capital Trust preferred securities During the year ended 31 December 2003, the ordinary share In May 2003, a subsidiary of the company issued 850,000 capital was increased by the following issues: Series I non-cumulative trust preferred securities of US$1,000 per security, the net proceeds being US$841 million.
a 13.3 million ordinary shares allotted as a result of the exercise of options under the companys executive, sharesave and In December 2003, a subsidiary of the company issued option 2000 schemes and a further 6.2 million ordinary 650,000 Series II non-cumulative trust preferred securities of shares allotted in respect of the exercise of options under US$1,000 per security, the net proceeds being US$644 million.
the NatWest executive and sharesave schemes which had been exchanged for options over the companys shares Subordinated liabilities 115 following the acquisition of NatWest in 2000: In March 2003, the Royal Bank issued 500 million 5.125% subordinated notes, the net proceeds being 490 million.
b 40.1 million ordinary shares allotted in lieu of cash dividends: and In April 2003, the Royal Bank issued 750 million 4.875% subordinated notes, the net proceeds being 749 million.
c 2.9 million ordinary shares allotted under the companys profit sharing share ownership scheme.
In June 2003, the company issued US$850 million 5.75% Exchangeable capital securities, the net proceeds being The total consideration for ordinary shares issued during the US$827 million, and the Royal Bank issued 200 million 5.625% year amounted to 775 million.
subordinated notes, the net proceeds being 211 million.
Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at In July 2003, the company issued US$350 million 4.7% 31 December 2003 are shown in Note 33. subordinated notes, the net proceeds being US$348 million.
Preference share capital In October 2003, the Royal Bank issued 1 billion subordinated In January 2003, the company redeemed the 8 million Series B floating rate notes, the net proceeds being 998 million and and the 16 million Series C, non-cumulative preference shares 400 million 5.625% subordinated notes, the net proceeds of US$0.01 each, at a total cost of US$600 million.
Details of the authorised and issued preference share capital In November 2003, the company issued US$750 million 5% at 31 December 2003 are shown in Note 33. subordinated notes, the net proceeds being US$744 million, and NatWest redeemed US$500 million 9.375% guaranteed Non-voting deferred shares capital notes.
Following the payment of the final dividend on the Additional Value Shares on 1 December 2003, they were fide-listed from In December 2003, the Royal Bank issued 500 million 4.5% the London Stock Exchange, converted to Non-voting Deferred subordinated notes, the net proceeds being 498 million.
Shares and transferred to RBS NVDS Nominees Limited.
Details of the subordinated liabilities are shown in Notes 30 and 31.
Shareholdings As at 18 February 2004, the company had been notified of the following interests in its shares, in accordance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Santander Central Hispano S. A.
81,000 20.25 Barclays PLC 89,927,387 3.05 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 46,255 11.56 11% cumulative preference shares: Mr P. S. and Mrs J. Allen 35,999 9.00 Guardian Royal Exchange E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 Windsor Life Assurance Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Mr S. J. and Mrs J.
A. Cockburn 30,810 6.16 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Mr W. T. Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A. W. R. Medlock and Mrs H. M. Medlock that they each have an interest in the 1 holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the directors Report of the directors continued Directors Development and training are given a high priority in the Group The names and brief biographical details of the directors are and significant importance is placed on having strong leadership shown on page 113.
All directors, except Mr Bill Wilson who capability across the organisation, proactively developing died on 25 December 2003, served throughout the year and to future leaders and succession plans for senior and executive the date of signing of the financial statements.
A core component of this is the Executive Mathewson, Sir Angus Grossart, Sir Iain Vallance, Mr Emilio Leadership Programme provided by Harvard Business School.
Botin, Mr Lawrence Fish, Mr Gordon Pell and Mr Iain There has also been strong demand for the Groups graduate Robertson will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the programme, with 185 participants in 2003. forthcoming annual general meeting.
Sir Angus Grossart and Sir Iain Vallance have indicated that they would not wish to The Group encourages professional development and lifelong 116 submit themselves for re-election in 2005.
Through Learning Awards it offers a financial service agreements for Mr Fish, Mr Pell and Mr Robertson are incentive to employees who take the banking qualifications set out on page 126.
No other director seeking re-election has a offered by The Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland and service agreement.
The Institute of Financial Services.
Directors interests As part of the Groups relationship with the Princes Trust, UKThe interests of the directors in the shares of the company at based employees are encouraged to become involved in the 31 December 2003 are shown on page 132.
None of the Trusts work with young people which offers personal directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or development opportunities.
This also contributes to the Groups in the shares and loan capital of any of the subsidiary aims in respect of Community Investment and Corporate undertakings of the company, during the period from 1 January Responsibility.
Employee communication Employee proposition The Group encourages employee involvement through a The company encourages employees to contribute to the process of communication and consultation.
This involves Groups performance through Total Reward, one of the most internal communication through a corporate intranet, an incomprehensive remuneration and benefits packages in financial house magazine, team meetings led by line managers, services.
The elements of Total Reward include: salary: briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with selectable benefits: bonus and share schemes: and pensions.
RBSelect, the Groups benefits choice programme, attracted The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives some 43,000 employees in 2003, allowing them to increase the regularly communicate directly with employees through overall value of their Total Reward package as well as tailoring Question Time style programmes, broadcast on the Groups it to suit their lifestyle.
Employees can choose from a range of internal television network.
The Group Chief Executive also options including subsidised childcare, discounted shopping meets employees during frequent visits to Group offices.
vouchers, private medical insurance, additional pension contributions and telephone legal advice.
Short films explaining the Groups annual and interim financial results are broadcast through the internal television network Employees can also participate in a bonus scheme or incentive which is also used for staff training and development.
plan specific to their business.
Employees are also able to share in the Groups success through profit sharing, Buy As Employee consultation You Earn and Sharesave schemes, aligning their interests with The importance the Group places on consultation with employees those of shareholders.
is evidenced by its annual, Group-wide employee opinion survey, which seeks views and feedback on a variety of key In each of the last five years the success of the Group has topics.
The latest survey took place in January 2003 and with given eligible employees a further ten percent of their basic an overall response rate of 83%, the Group is confident that salary through Group profit sharing.
staff value the survey as a method of expressing their views and of initiating change in the organisation.
In 2003, the Group introduced the Buy As You Earn Plan allowing employees to buy shares in the Group on a monthly basis.
The Group has established an European Employee Communication Council to facilitate dialogue amongst employee representatives The Group provides pension scheme membership for the in the European Economic Area on employment matters.
majority of staff in the UK and overseas.
The largest scheme is The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, which has some 74,000 employee members.
This is a non-contributory, defined benefit fund and is open to full-time and part-time employees, including fixed-term contractors.
Report of the directors Diversity Political donations The Group is committed to recognising diversity in all areas of No political donations were made during the year.
recruitment, employment, training and promotion.
The Groups business model is based on meritocracy and inclusiveness, At the annual general meeting in 2002 shareholders gave which allows all employees to develop their full potential, authority for the company and certain of its subsidiaries to irrespective of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a religious belief, political opinion or sexual orientation.
maximum aggregate sum of 675,000 as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, In 2003 the Group participated in a number of programmes Elections and Referendums Act 2000, for a period of four and activities in support of its approach to diversity and good years.
These authorities have not been used and it is not 117 people management.
proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
The Groups benchmark ratings for age and race diversity improved in 2003 and silver ratings in both Opportunity Now Policy and practice on payment of creditors and Race for Opportunity were achieved.
The Group sponsored In the year ending 31 December 2004, the Group will continue the launch of the Age Audit toolkit by the Employers Forum on to adhere to the payment policy set out below in respect of all Age, which had been piloted earlier in the year.
The Group is committed to maintaining a sound also a sponsor of the Guardian Diversity in Britain commercial relationship with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is Conference and the Opportunity Now Annual Awards.
the Groups policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which includes the giving of an Health, Safety & Security undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a The health, safety and security of employees and customers is correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the of paramount importance to the Group.
terms of the contract or such other payment period as may be agreed.
The Group has a continuous programme of reviewing its health and safety policies in light of current legislation and best At 31 December 2003, the Groups trade creditors represented practice, as well as to ensure that they meet the operational 27 days 2002 27 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
The company does not have any trade creditors.
Auditors Corporate responsibility On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, the companys auditors Business excellence requires that the Group meets changing transferred their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited customer, shareholder, investor, employee and supplier liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability expectations and the Group believes that meeting high Partnership Act 2000.
The companys consent has been given standards of environmental, social and ethical responsibility is to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending key to the way it does business.
to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003 under the provisions of section 26 5 of the Companies Act The Board regularly considers corporate responsibility issues 1989.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the and receives a formal report on these matters twice each year.
companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming annual Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility policies general meeting.
will be contained in the 2003 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Code of ethics The Group has adopted a code of ethics that is applicable to all of the Groups employees and a copy is available upon request.
Miller McLean Charitable contributions Secretary In 2003 the cost of the Groups Community Investment 18 February 2004 programmes increased to 40.1 million 2002 33.7 million.
The total amount given for charitable purposes by the company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended 31 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc December 2003 was 14.7 million 2002 14.7 million.
is registered in Scotland No.
Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of Corporate governance.
Details are given on pages 118 to 121.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Report of the directors Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate Board balance and independence governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five executive activities.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003, the company appropriate size in view of the scale of the company and the has complied with all of the provisions set out in section 1 of the diversity of its businesses.
The directors provide the Group with Combined Code issued by the London Stock Exchange in June the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks of 1998.
In addition, the company has complied with the provisions contacts required.
The Board Committees contain directors set out in the revised Combined Code issued by the Financial with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except in relation to: undue reliance is placed on any one individual.
118 the requirement that at least half of the Board should The non-executive directors combine broad business and comprise independent non-executive directors, which is commercial experience with independent and objective explained below in the paragraph headed Board balance judgement.
The balance between non-executive and executive and independence.
directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity the authority reserved to the Board to make the final across the companys business activities.
The names and determination of the remuneration of the executive directors, biographies of all Board members are set out on page 113. which is explained below in the paragraph headed Remuneration Committee.
The Code requires the Board to determine whether its nonexecutive members are independent.
The Board considers that Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, enhanced standards all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of of corporate governance and business and financial disclosure the Code, with the following exceptions: apply to companies, including the company, with securities registered in the US.
All changes necessary to comply with the Mr Emilio Botin and Mr Juan Inciarte, who are new standards have been implemented.
representatives of Santander Central Hispano S. A.
Board of directors Sir Angus Grossart and Sir Iain Vallance, who have served The Board is the principal decision making forum for the company.
on the Board for 18 and 11 years, respectively.
It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the company and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational Mr Iain Robertson who was formerly an executive director performance.
The Board approves Group strategy and monitors of the company.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs reserved As a result, in terms of the Code, the Board comprises six to it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually.
independent and 10 non-independent directors including executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The composition of the Board is subject to continuing review The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective and the provisions of the Code will be taken into account in engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive respect of the balance of the Board.
It is the Boards intention directors.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for all to have a majority of independent directors.
Sir Angus Grossart Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority and Sir Iain Vallance have agreed to offer themselves for redelegated from the Board of directors.
Responsibility for the election at the companys annual general meeting on 29 April development of policy and strategy and operational 2004.
However, they have indicated that they would not wish to management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive and submit themselves for re-election in April 2005. other executive directors.
Mr Bob Scott has been nominated as the senior independent All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance director and would be consulted when necessary on the and financial and risk management of the company and concerns of shareholders.
meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion.
The Board meets at least eight times each year.
It is supplied Re-election of directors with comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting At each annual general meeting, one third of the directors will including financial and business reports covering the Groups retire and offer themselves for re-election and each director principal business activities.
Members of the executive must stand for re-election at least once every three years.
Any management attend and make regular presentations at non-executive directors who have served for more than nine meetings of the Board.
years will also stand for annual re-election.
The proposed reelection of directors is subject to prior review by the Board.
Corporate governance The names of directors standing for re-election at the 2004 In January 2003, the Audit Committee established its policy on annual general meeting are contained on page 116 and further the engagement of the external auditors to supply audit and information will be given in the Chairmans letter to shareholders non-audit services, taking into account relevant legislation in relation to the companys annual general meeting.
regarding the provision of such services by an external audit firm.
This policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee Information, induction and professional development which also reviews and monitors the independence of the The Chairman ensures that all directors receive accurate, external auditors when it approves non-audit work to be carried timely and clear information on all relevant matters.
Any out by them, taking into consideration relevant ethical guidance.
requests for further information or clarification are dealt with or To safeguard auditor objectivity and independence in the co-ordinated by the Group Secretary.
provision of non-audit services, a detailed submission is made 119 by management to the Audit Committee prior to appointment.
The Group Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, The submission contains, in particular, details as to why the through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All directors proposed appointment would not breach auditor independence.
have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and regulations are complied with.
In addition, all directors are the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional advice relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit at the companys expense.
Committee will make recommendations in relation to the reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the Each new director receives a formal induction, including visits external auditors at the annual general meeting on 29 April 2004. to all the Groups major businesses and meetings with senior management.
The induction is tailored to the directors specific All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonrequirements.
Existing directors undertake such professional executive directors.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee development as they consider necessary in assisting them to members have recent and relevant financial experience.
carry out their duties as directors.
Although the Board has determined that each member of the Audit Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert as Performance evaluation defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities Exchange Building on the internal review conducted in 2001, a performance Act, the members of the Audit Committee are selected with a evaluation of the Board and its Committees was undertaken in view to the expertise and experience of the Audit Committee the autumn of 2003.
The review was conducted by the Group as a whole, and the Audit Committee reports to the Board as a Secretary using a detailed questionnaire and meetings with single entity.
The designation of a director or directors as an each of the directors to discuss the performance of the Board Audit Committee Financial Expert does not impose on any and its Committees.
such director any duties, obligations or liability that are greater than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such In addition, each director discussed his or her own performance director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in the with the Chairman and the senior independent director met absence of such a designation.
Nor does the designation of a individually with the executive directors and with the nondirector as an Audit Committee Financial Expert affect the executive directors as a group without the Chairman present, duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Board.
to consider the Chairmans performance.
The report on the Board evaluation, which was designed to assist the Board in Remuneration Committee further improving its performance, was considered and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating discussed by the Board as a whole and specific actions are and reviewing the Groups executive remuneration policy and currently being implemented.
A performance review will be making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration conducted on an annual basis.
The Directors Remuneration report is contained on pages 122 to 131.
All members of the Board Committees Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the directors.
Board has established a number of Committees with particular responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and membership Responsibility for determining the remuneration of executive is refreshed on a regular basis.
directors has not been delegated to the Remuneration Audit Committee Committee, and in that sense the provisions of the Code have The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in not been complied with.
The Board as a whole reserves the discharging its responsibilities in relation to the financial affairs authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of of the Group, the arrangements for accounting and financial directors as it considers that this two stage process allows reporting and regulatory compliance, the standards of internal greater consideration and evaluation and is consistent with the control, and arrangements for internal audit, risk management unitary nature of the Board.
No director is involved in decisions and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets regarding his or her own remuneration.
executive directors and management and the external and internal auditors privately.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee Relations with shareholders The Nominations Committee comprises independent nonThe company communicates with shareholders through the executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
annual report and by providing information in advance of the The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the annual general meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise Board in the formal selection and appointment of directors and matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the considers succession planning for the Board.
It also considers Group at any time.
Furthermore, shareholders are given the potential candidates and recommends appointments of new opportunity to ask questions at the annual general meeting or directors to the Board.
The appointments are based on merit submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen of the and against objective criteria including the time available, and Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are commitment which will be required of, the potential director.
available to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
120 The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as nonshareholder preferences and all directors receive regular executive directors of the company.
Communication with the companys largest institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of the companys investor Meetings relations programme.
The mechanisms used to communicate The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit, with shareholders were considered as part of the Board Remuneration and Nominations Committees and individual evaluation and will be reviewed annually.
attendance by members is shown below.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive and, if appropriate, Board Audit Remuneration Nominations the senior independent director communicate shareholder Total number of meetings views to the Board as a whole.
In addition, the senior in 2003 86 3 2 independent director will attend the results presentations.
Number of meetings attended in 2003 The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Sir George Mathewson 8 2 Nominations Committees and the standard terms and conditions of the appointment of non-executive directors are available on Sir Iain Vallance 8 2 the Groups website www.
co. uk and copies are available Sir Angus Grossart 8 2 on request.
Mr Fred Goodwin 8 Mr Emilio Botin 4 Mr Colin Buchan 7 6 1 Mr Jim Currie 7 3 Mr Lawrence Fish 5 Mr Juan Inciarte 8 Miss Eileen Mackay 8 6 3 Mr Norman McLuskie 8 Mr Gordon Pell 8 Mr Iain Robertson 8 Sir Steve Robson 8 6 - - Mr Bob Scott 8 3 1 Mr Peter Sutherland 6 Mr Fred Watt 8 Mr Bill Wilson 6 6 2 1 Mr Buchan was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 29 October 2003 Corporate governance Internal control Disclosure controls and procedures The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and evaluating the effectiveness of the companys disclosure efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and controls and procedures as defined in the rules under the US external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and Securities Exchange Act have concluded and been authorised regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard by the Board to certify that as at 31 December 2003, the to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it companys disclosure controls and procedures were adequate crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal and effective and designed to ensure that material information control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide would be made known to them by others within those entities.
121 reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Changes in internal controls There were no significant changes in the companys internal The Board has established an ongoing process for the controls over financial reporting or, to the knowledge of the identification, evaluation and management of the significant Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, in other risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year factors that could significantly affect those internal controls as ended 31 December 2003 and to 18 February 2004, the date at 31 December 2003. the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee.
Executive management committees or boards of directors in each of the Groups businesses receive quarterly reports on significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
These reports are combined and submitted to the Board as quarterly risk and control assessments.
Additional details of the Groups approach to risk management are given in the Risk management section of the Operating and financial review on pages 92 to 109.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from Group Risk Management and Group Internal Audit.
In addition, the Groups independent auditors present to the Audit Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group are also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report The Remuneration Committee The following directors, all of whom are independent nonRemuneration arrangements will be designed to support the executive directors, were members of the Remuneration companys business strategy, to promote appropriate Committee during the year ended 31 December 2003. teamwork and to conform to best practice standards.
Bob Scott Chairman The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Colin Buchan from 29 October 2003 Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman.
The level of Jim Currie remuneration reflects the responsibility and time commitment of Eileen Mackay directors and the level of fees paid to non-executive directors Bill Wilson deceased 25 December 2003 of comparable major UK companies.
Non-executive directors 122 do not participate in any incentive or performance plan.
During the accounting period, the Remuneration Committee confirmed the appointment of Ernst & Young and appointed The Remuneration Committee approves the remuneration Mercer Human Resource Consulting to provide advice on arrangements of senior executives below Board level who are matters relating to directors remuneration in the UK and US members of the Group Executive Management Committee, respectively.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive, and taken account of the views of the Chairman and the Group reviews all long-term incentive arrangements which are Chief Executive on performance assessment.
In addition to advising the Remuneration Committee, Ernst & Components of executive remuneration Young provided professional services in the ordinary course of UK based directors business including actuarial and corporate recovery advice.
Salary Mercer Human Resource Consulting provided advice in Salaries are reviewed annually as part of total remuneration, connection with a range of healthcare, actuarial and having regard to remuneration packages received by executives investment matters.
The Remuneration Committee uses a range of survey data from remuneration consultants and Remuneration policy reaches individual salary decisions taking account of the The executive remuneration policy is kept under review by the remuneration environment and the performance and Remuneration Committee and is set out below.
There have responsibilities of the individual director.
been no material changes to the policy which was approved by shareholders at the companys annual general meeting in 2003.
Benefits UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in The The objective of the executive remuneration policy is to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the RBS Fund.
provide, in the context of the companys business strategy, The RBS Fund is a non-contributory defined benefit fund which remuneration in form and amount which will attract, motivate provides pensions and other benefits within Inland Revenue and retain high calibre executives.
In order to achieve this limits.
Certain directors receive additional pension and life objective, the policy is framed around the following core assurance benefits in excess of Inland Revenue limits.
Details principles: of pension arrangements of directors are shown on page 131.
Total rewards will be set at levels that are competitive within Executives directors are eligible to receive a choice of various the relevant market, taking each executive directors employee benefits or a cash equivalent, on a similar basis to remuneration package as a whole.
In addition, like other employees, executive directors are eligible also to participate in Sharesave, Buy As Total potential rewards will be earned through achievement You Earn and the Group profit sharing scheme, which currently of demanding performance targets based on measures pays up to 10 per cent of salaries, depending on the Groups consistent with shareholder interests over the short, medium performance.
These schemes are not subject to performance and longer-term.
conditions since they are operated on an all-employee basis.
Executive directors also receive death in service benefits.
Remuneration arrangements will strike an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related rewards.
Short-term annual incentives Performance related elements will comprise the major part This typically focuses from year to year on the delivery of a of executive remuneration packages.
combination of appropriate Group and individual financial and operational targets approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Incentive plans and performance metrics will be structured Individual UK-based executive directors normally have a to be robust through the business cycle.
maximum annual bonus potential of 100 per cent of salary Directors remuneration report 150 per cent in the case of the Group Chief Executive, Options although for exceptional performance, as measured by the The executive share option scheme was approved by shareachievement of significant objectives, bonuses up to 200 per holders in January 1999.
Each executive director is eligible for cent of salary may be awarded.
the annual grant of an option, typically equal to 1.25 times salary, over shares at the market value at date of grant.
No Long-term incentives payment is made by the executive on the grant of an option The company provides long-term incentives in the form of award.
share options and share or share equivalent awards.
Their objective is to encourage the creation of value over the longAll executive share options are subject to a performance term and to align the rewards of the executive directors with target, which is currently that the options are not exercisable 123 the returns to shareholders.
unless the growth in the companys EPS over three years has exceeded the growth in the RPI plus nine per cent.
This EPS Medium-term performance plan performance target, which is consistent with market practice, The medium-term performance plan was approved by measures underlying financial performance and represents a shareholders in April 2001.
Each executive director is eligible stretching long-term test of performance.
For awards made in for an annual award under the plan in the form of share or 2004 and in future, there will be no re-testing of the share equivalent awards, within the overall limit of one and a performance condition.
The condition is reviewed annually.
The awards made in 2003 were up to one No previous awards have been subject to re-testing.
The plan is highly geared to the companys relative performance.
All awards under the plan are subject to threeyear performance targets.
First, the annual growth in the companys earnings per share EPS must exceed the annualised growth of the Retail Prices Index RPI plus three per cent.
If this condition is satisfied, the companys total shareholder return TSR is compared with the TSR of a comparator group of certain companies in the financial services sector, referred to below.
Awards under the plan will not vest if the companys TSR is below the median of the comparator group.
Achievement of the EPS target and median TSR performance against the comparator companies will result in the vesting of up to 50 per cent of the award, increasing on a sliding scale up to 100 per cent at upper quartile performance and up to 200 per cent at upper decile performance.
This combination of EPS and TSR performance targets measures the underlying financial performance of the company and ensures a direct link between the value delivered to shareholders and the levels of incentive payment.
The companies in the comparator group are Abbey National plc: Aviva plc: Barclays PLC: Citigroup: HBOS plc: HSBC Holdings plc: Legal & General Group plc: Lloyds TSB Group plc: Prudential plc and Standard Chartered PLC.
In choosing the comparator group, it was recognised that while the company has significant international business, the bulk of its operations are UK-based.
Consequently the comparator group for the award in 2001 focused on the UK financial services sector.
In respect of grants made in 2002 and subsequent years, the comparator group was reviewed and, following the merger of Halifax with Bank of Scotland, Citigroup was added to the group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued US based director Mr Lawrence Fish Citizens Phantom 2000 Plan Salary Mr Fish has received two annual grants of awards under the Mr Fishs salary is reviewed annually as part of his total Phantom 2000 Plan and, in line with the grant schedule put in remuneration, having regard to levels of remuneration paid to place when the plan was approved by shareholders in 2000, executives of comparable US companies and Mr Fishs no further awards will be made to him.
Under this plan, units performance.
are awarded which are a cash-based proxy for share options.
The value of the units at the time of vesting is performanceBenefits linked and depends on a formula, based on the absolute Mr Fish accrues pension benefits under a number of cumulative levels of economic profit generated by Citizens, the arrangements in the US.
Details are provided on page 131. trend in economic profit earnings, and on the external market 124 In addition, Mr Fish is entitled to receive other benefits on a trends in the US banking sector, using the price earnings ratios similar basis to other employees.
This performance target has been chosen because it establishes a clear link between the level of potential Short-term annual incentives incentive and the performance of Citizens.
It is designed to Mr Fishs short-term performance rewards take the form of an provide competitive executive rewards in the US environment.
annual incentive plan which rewards the achievement of Mr Fish may, in normal circumstances, exercise the award only Group, business unit and individual financial and non-financial between four and five years from the date of grant.
In line with US market practice, the maximum annual bonus potential is normally 200 per cent of salary, although additional amounts to a maximum of an additional 200 per cent of salary may be awarded, at the discretion of the Board, for exceptional performance as measured by the achievement of significant objectives.
Longer term incentives Mr Fish currently participates in two long term incentive plans established for executives of Citizens and may be eligible to participate in the companys long tem incentive plans.
The Remuneration Committee believes that it is appropriate to include, as part of his total remuneration package, an element of reward which is based on the value created in Citizens.
It is also necessary to ensure that Mr Fishs total remuneration package is competitive for the US market.
Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan Mr Fish is eligible for an annual award under the Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan, a cash compensation plan designed to reward participants for achieving long-term financial results.
A separate three-year cycle commences each year.
The maximum award payable to him annually is 105 per cent of his average salary over the previous three-year period.
These awards are not, in normal circumstances, payable until the relevant three-year performance target has been met.
Each three-year performance target is based on the annual pre-tax income target for Citizens.
For the maximum award to be paid in respect of each three-year target, Citizens must achieve 130 per cent of the three-year aggregate budgeted profit figure.
This performance target has been chosen because it focuses on the profit targets of Citizens, which the Remuneration Committee believes are challenging, and aligns Mr Fishs reward with the performance of Citizens.
This performance target is measured by taking the pre-tax income for Citizens, which is a simple and transparent method of measuring a profit figure target.
Directors remuneration report The performance graph The undernoted performance graph illustrates the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The total shareholder return for the company and the FTSE 100 have been rebased to 0 for 1998.
Total shareholder return 125 Service contracts All new service contracts for executive directors will be subject The companys policy in relation to the duration of contracts to approval by the Remuneration Committee.
It will be the norm with directors is that executive directors contracts generally to include in those contracts standard clauses covering the continue until termination by either party, subject to the required performance review process, the companys normal disciplinary notice, or until retirement date.
The notice period under the procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of failure to service contracts of executive directors will not normally exceed perform or in situations involving actions in breach of the 12 months.
However, the notice period may exceed 12 months Groups policies.
if existing service contracts have notice periods greater than 12 months and the Remuneration Committee considers it Any compensation payment made in connection with the appropriate not to reduce the existing notice period.
In relation departure of an executive director will be subject to approval to newly recruited executive directors, subject to the prior by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of approval of the Remuneration Committee, the notice period the service contract and the reasons for termination.
from the employing company required to terminate the contract will not normally exceed 12 months unless there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured such that it will automatically reduce to 12 months in due course.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Information regarding executive directors service contracts is summarised in the table and notes below.
Date of current contract Notice period Notice period Name Employing company Normal retirement age from company from executive Fred Goodwin 1 August 1998 60 12 months 6 months The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Norman McLuskie 9 October 1997 60 3 months 3 months The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Gordon Pell 22 May 2002 60 12 months 6 months National Westminster Bank Plc Fred Watt 28 September 2000 60 12 months 6 months 126 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Lawrence Fish 18 February 2004 65 12 months 12 months Citizens Financial Group Inc Iain Robertson See note below Except as noted below, in the event of severance of contract If Mr Watts contract is terminated through redundancy, he is where any contractual notice period is not worked, the entitled to payment in lieu of notice and a cash payment employing company may pay a sum to the executive in lieu of calculated by reference to his age and length of service.
Any such payment would, at maximum, Currently this entitlement is equal to nine months salary, and comprise base salary and a cash value in respect of fixed an additional payment of 2.13 weeks pay.
benefits including pension plan contributions.
In the event of failure to perform, or in situations involving breach of the Under Mr Fishs previous contract dated 1 July 1996, the employing companys policies resulting in dismissal, reduced notice period on termination by the company was 24 or no compensation will be paid to the executive.
Following review, during which Mr Fishs normal on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the retirement date was confirmed to be at the age of 65, Mr executive may be entitled, or the Remuneration Committee may Fish has entered into a revised contract under which this exercise its discretion to allow, the executive to exercise notice period has been reduced to 12 months.
No outstanding awards under long-term incentive arrangements.
compensation has been paid or will be payable as a result Exceptions to these severance arrangements are as follows: of this change.
The provisions of Mr Fishs previous contract dealing with termination following a change of control of lf Mr McLuskies contract is terminated by the Royal Bank Citizens, the company or the Royal Bank have been before he reaches age 60, he is entitled to a payment of eliminated from the contract.
If his contract is terminated three months base salary, annual bonus and benefits in lieu without cause, or if Mr Fish terminates the contract for good of notice plus up to 57 weeks pay subject in some reason as defined in the contract, he is entitled to a lump circumstances to mitigation and an immediate pension without sum payment to compensate him for the loss of salary and actuarial reduction.
If his contract is terminated by the Royal annual bonus and, in the case of a termination during 2004, Bank within 12 months of a change of control, he is entitled long-term bonus in relation to the period he would have to a payment equal to twice his annual salary at the time of worked had notice been given by Citizens.
Mr Fish would such notice, and an immediate pension.
Mr McLuskie is due to also be entitled to receive for this period health, life retire in August 2004 when he reaches age 60. insurance and long term disability coverage and any other benefits determined in accordance with the plans, policies If Mr Pells contract is terminated early by NatWest without and practices of Citizens at the time of termination.
notice, he is entitled to a compensation payment of base salary relating to the notice period, his annual bonus to the Mr Robertson ceased his full-time employment with the date of termination, a payment equal to the average annual Royal Bank on 25 June 2003 but continued as a director of bonus over the previous three years, payment in lieu of the company in a non-executive capacity.
Details of his contractual benefits and allowances including pension and contract as a non-executive director are set out on page 128. extra payments by way of funded or unfunded pension and death in service contributions relating to the notice period.
Directors remuneration report Chairman and non-executive directors The original date of appointment as a director of the company and the scheduled date for the next re-election is as follows: Date first appointed Next re-election Sir George Mathewson 1.9.
01 2006 Other than Mr Robertson, the non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice periods, although under the companys articles of association, all directors must retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Mr Robertson entered into a new contract to reflect his role as a non-executive director, which took effect on 25 June 2003.
Under this contract, Mr Robertsons appointment will terminate at the companys annual general meeting in April 2005, unless terminated earlier by either party on one months written notice.
No compensation would be paid to the Chairman or to any non-executive director in the event of early termination.
The tables and explanatory notes on pages 128 to 131 report the remuneration of each director for the year ended 31 December 2003 and have been audited by the companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration Salary Performance 2003 2002 fees bonus Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Sir George Mathewson 497 41 538 468 Executive directors Fred Goodwin 898 990 28 1,916 2,580 Lawrence Fish 612 1,223 24 1,859 3,352 128 Norman McLuskie 498 539 11 1,048 1,375 Gordon Pell 626 676 5 1,307 1,725 Iain Robertson until 25 June 2003 159 8 167 1,353 Fred Watt 531 578 1 1,110 1,433 includes 10% profit sharing Basic salary is the only component of the remuneration package which is pensionable.
Board 2003 2002 Board fees committee fees Total Total Non-executive directors 000 000 000 000 Vice-chairmen Sir Iain Vallance 100 100 100 Sir Angus Grossart 100 100 100 Emilio Botin 44 44 44 Colin Buchan 44 12 56 28 Jim Currie 44 10 54 52 Juan Inciarte 44 44 44 Eileen Mackay 44 20 64 63 Iain Robertson from 25 June 2003 50 50 Sir Steve Robson 44 10 54 54 Bob Scott 44 23 67 67 Peter Sutherland 44 44 44 Bill Wilson 44 38 82 82 From 25 June 2003, Mr Robertson has carried out his role as Chairman, Corporate Banking and Financial Markets and as a director in a non-executive capacity.
He also provides general advice on business issues to the Board and Board Committees as appropriate, including attendance as required at the Group Audit Committee and the Advances Committee.
For these services Mr Robertson receives a fee of 100,000 per annum.
No director received any expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax or compensation for loss of office termination payment.
The non-executive directors did not receive any bonus payments or benefits.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued No options had their terms and conditions varied during the The market price of the companys ordinary shares at 31 accounting period to 31 December 2003.
No payment is December 2003 was 16.46 and the range during the year to required on the award of an option.
The executive share options which are exercisable from March In the ten year period to 31 December 2003, awards made 2002 onwards are subject to the satisfaction of an EPS growth using new issue shares under the companys share plans target such that no option is exercisable unless the growth in represented 4.2% of the companys issued ordinary share the companys EPS over three years has exceeded the growth capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of 5.8%.
In respect of executive share options exercisable before March 2002 the performance condition is 130 that the growth in the companys EPS over three years has exceeded the growth in the RPI plus 6%.
No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
The performance measures are detailed on page 123.
Phantom 2000 Plan Awards granted during year End of the period for Phantom 2000 units at Units awarded Market price qualifying conditions Benefits received Phantom 2000 units at 1 January 2003 during year on award to be fulfilled during the year 31 December 2003 Lawrence Fish 1,000,000 01.01.04 1,000,000 1,000,000 01.01.05 1,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
The performance measures are detailed on page 124.
Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan Benefits received Interests at 1 January 2003 Awards granted during year during the year Interests at 31 December 2003 Lawrence Fish LTIP awards for the LTIP award for the LTIP award for the LTIP awards for the 3 year periods: 3 year period: 3 year period: 3 year periods: 01.01.00 31.12.02 01.01.03 31.12.05 01.01.00 31.12.02 01.01.01 31.12.03 01.01.01 31.12.03 was $970,885 01.01.02 31.12.04 01.01.02 31.12.04 01.01.03 31.12.05 Under the cash LTIP, target payment is 60% of average salary over the three year period, maximum payment is 105% of average salary.
Directors remuneration report Directors pension arrangements Sir George Mathewson receives life insurance cover under an During the year, Mr Goodwin, Mr McLuskie, Mr Pell, individual arrangement.
The non-executive directors do not Mr Robertson and Mr Watt participated in The Royal Bank of accrue pension benefits, other than Mr Robertson who Scotland Group Pension Fund the RBS Fund.
The RBS Fund continued to accrue benefits in the RBS Fund after his is a defined benefit fund which provides pensions and other appointment as a non-executive director.
benefits within Inland Revenue limits.
Mr Fish accrues pension benefits under a number of The pension entitlements of Mr Goodwin, Mr Pell, Mr Robertson, arrangements in the USA.
Defined benefits are built up under and Mr Watt within the RBS Fund are restricted by Inland the Citizens Qualified Plan, Excess Plan and Supplemental Revenue limits as set out in the Finance Act 1989.
In addition, he is a 131 life assurance cover in excess of these limits is provided by member of two defined contribution arrangements a a separate arrangement.
Arrangements have been made to Qualified 401 k Plan and an Excess 401 k Plan.
provide Mr Goodwin and Mr Pell with additional pension benefits on a defined benefit basis outwith the RBS Fund.
The As in the 2002 Report and Accounts, disclosure of these figures shown below include the accrual in respect of these benefits has been made in accordance with the Stock arrangements.
Mr Watt is provided with additional pension Exchange Listing Rules and the Combined Code and with the benefits on a defined contribution basis and contributions Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. made in the year are shown below.
Transfer value Additional Additional for the additional pensionpension Increasepension earned earned in transfer earned Accrued during the during the Transfer Transfer value during during the entitlement at year ended year ended value as at value as at year ended year ended Age at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2003 2003 2003 2003 2002 2003 2003 Defined benefit arrangements 2003 000 p. a.
The former requires the disclosure of the additional pension earned during the year and the transfer value equivalent to this pension based on stock market conditions at the end of the year.
The latter requires the disclosure of the difference between the transfer value at the start and end of the year and is therefore dependent on the change in stock market conditions over the course of the year.
The above disclosure has been made in accordance with the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
2 The figures for Mr Pell include an additional pension secured by a transfer from his previous employer which increases in line with statutory revaluation, not salary inflation.
3 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the company pension scheme.
Contributions and allowances paid in the year ended 31 December 2003 under defined contribution arrangements were: 2003 2002 000 000 Fred Watt 109 93 Lawrence Fish $90 $90 Bob Scott, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 February 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Directors remuneration report Directors interests in shares Ordinary shares The following directors held a beneficial interest in the companys ordinary shares: 31 December 1 January 2003 or date 31 December 1 January 2003 or date 2003 of appointment if later 2003 of appointment if later Colin Buchan 5,000 Gordon Pell 582 432 Lawrence Fish 11,120 11,120 Iain Robertson 125,139 120,904 Fred Goodwin 64,718 64,703 Bob Scott 1,445 1,445 Eileen Mackay 6,140 6,086 Sir Iain Vallance 2,500 2,500 Sir George Mathewson 247,978 247,948 Fred Watt 7,453 7,223 132 Norman McLuskie 154,508 150,037 No other director had an interest in the companys ordinary shares during the year.
Additional Value shares The following directors held a beneficial interest in the companys Additional Value Shares: 31 December 1 January 2003 or date 31 December 1 January 2003 or date 2003 of appointment if later 2003 of appointment if later Lawrence Fish 10,950 Norman McLuskie 26,584 Fred Goodwin 64,703 Iain Robertson 112,747 Eileen Mackay 6,086 Sir Iain Vallance 2,500 Sir George Mathewson 173,674 No other director had an interest in the companys Additional Value Shares during the year.
Following the final dividend payment on the Additional Value Shares on 1 December 2003, the Additional Value Shares were fide-listed from the London Stock Exchange, converted to Non-voting Deferred Shares and transferred to RBS NVDS Nominees Limited.
None of the directors has an interest in the Non-voting Deferred Shares.
Preference shares On 7 January 2004 and 9 February 2004, eight and seven Mr Fish held 20,000 non-cumulative preference shares of ordinary shares of 25p each, respectively, were acquired by Mr US$0.01 each at 31 December 2003 2002 20,000.
No other Goodwin under the Groups Buy As You Earn share scheme.
director had an interest in the preference shares during the year.
On 7 January 2004 and 9 February 2004, eight and seven Loan notes ordinary shares of 25p each, respectively, were acquired by Mr No director had an interest in loan notes during the year.
McLuskie under the Groups Buy As You Earn share scheme.
The companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open No director held a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the to inspection, contains full details of directors shareholdings company at 31 December 2003, at 1 January 2003 or date of and options to subscribe.
Directors interests in shares Statement of directors responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 133 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Miller McLean Secretary 18 February 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Statement of directors responsibilities 134 Make it happen Financial statements
