Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance INDUCTION AND TRAINING The Company is committed to the highest standards of When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal corporate governance.
Following the publication of a new and tailored induction.
In addition, Directors attend ad hoc Combined Code, which will apply to the Company for the year seminars appropriate to the Companys business.
ending 31 December 2004, the Board has commenced a review of all aspects of corporate governance.
This includes the work and terms of reference of the Committees of the Board.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Investment Committee, which as at 31 December 2003 APPLICATION OF CODE PRINCIPLES consisted of Nicholas Ferguson Chairman, John Govett, THE BOARD Edgar Koning, John McLachlan, Denis Raeburn, Andrew Sykes The Board currently consists of two executive and six and Andrew Williams, is responsible, together with the Board, non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that John for the day-to-day management of the Companys investment McLachlan, John Govett, Anthony Habgood, Edgar Koning portfolio.
In particular, the Committee is responsible for and Denis Raeburn are independent non-executive directors.
reviewing investment proposals for the Company, for giving see page 2 for further details.
investment recommendations to the Board and for implementing the Boards decision as regards any investment.
All Directors are appointed for an initial term covering the period from the date of their appointment until the first Annual As part of the preparations for the Companys acquisition of 26 General Meeting thereafter, at which they are required to stand Schroder Ventures London Limited and Schroder Ventures for election, in accordance with the existing Articles of North America Inc. the Company established a Remuneration Association.
Thereafter Directors retire by rotation at least Committee during the year to 30 June 2001.
Remuneration Committee, which has defined terms of reference and duties, is, inter alia responsible for making The Board meets at least five times a year.
Matters specically recommendations to the Board in relation to the remuneration reserved for decision by the full Board have been dened and of the Executive Directors and the issuance of share option are currently being re-examined as part of the overall grants under the Executive Share Option Plan established in governance review.
At 31 December 2003, the Committee was comprised A procedure has been adopted for directors, in the of John McLachlan Chairman, John Govett, Anthony furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional Habgood and Denis Raeburn.
advice at the expense of the Company.
The Directors have The Remuneration Committee also reviews certain contracts access to the advice and services of the Corporate Company with service providers.
Secretary through its appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures The Company has established a Nominations Committee in are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are accordance with the recommendations of the Combined complied with.
Code, to make recommendations on the appointment of new Directors.
At 31 December 2003, the Committee was PERFORMANCE EVALUATION comprised of Anthony Habgood Chairman, Nicholas As part of its review of all aspects of corporate governance, Ferguson, Edgar Koning, John McLachlan and Denis the Board is establishing a framework for the on-going Raeburn.
A formal procedure for the appointment of new Directors is contained in the terms of reference of the evaluation of the performance of the board and its Committee.
The Committee meets as necessary to make committees, as well as the performance and individual recommendations to the Board on the filling of Board contribution of the non-executive directors.
The first review of performance will take place later in 2004 and will be led by vacancies.
In making its recommendations, the Committee is the Chairman.
The evaluation of the Chairmans performance required to ensure that the composition of the Board is will be led by a senior non-executive director.
appropriately balanced in expertise and ability.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance continued ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT There is an Audit Committee with dened terms of reference The Directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the and duties.
At 31 December 2003, the Committee was accounts is on page 25 and a statement of going concern is comprised of John McLachlan Chairman, Anthony set out below.
Habgood, Edgar Koning and Denis Raeburn.
The function of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the Company maintains The Independent Auditors Report can be found on page 32. the highest standards of integrity in financial reporting.
It also meets with representatives of the Company Secretary and GOING CONCERN receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt accounting records and management information maintained the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the on behalf of the Company.
assets of the Company and the Group consist mainly of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the INFORMATION FLOWS Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to The Chief Executive reports to the Board on at least a quarterly continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For basis and as appropriate on specic matters.
Directors are this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the preparing the accounts.
Companys policies, regulatory requirements and internal 27 controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are INTERNAL CONTROL advised to the Board as they arise.
The Board receives and The Combined Code requires the Board to review the considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc effectiveness of internal controls.
The Board has undertaken reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
a full review of all the aspects covered by the Turnbull guidance under which the Board is responsible for the RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides effectiveness.
an effective forum for private investors to communicate with The Board has approved a detailed risk map that identies the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual General significant strategic, investment-related, operational and Meeting is attended by members of the Board of Directors service provider risks and adopted an enhanced monitoring and a presentation is made.
There is an opportunity for system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of individual shareholders to question the Chairmen of the internal control are considered on a regular basis.
Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee at the Annual General The Board has contractually delegated the day to day Meeting.
The Company announces the level of votes cast by accounting and company secretarial requirements to proxy on resolutions proposed at General Meetings.
This contract was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to of the quality and cost of services offered including the shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year financial control systems in operation in so far as they relate end and holding the earliest possible Annual General Meeting to the affairs of the Company, and the contract is monitored is valuable.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 61 to 62 sets out by the Remuneration Committee.
the business of the meeting.
The Board believes that the key risks identified and the EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS implementation of an ongoing system to identify, evaluate and The Company has established a voting policy in respect of its manage these risks are based upon and relevant to the investments which, in summary, is based on the governance Companys business.
The ongoing risk assessment, which recommendations of the Combined Code with the intention has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the of voting in accordance with best practice whilst maintaining date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and a primary focus on financial returns.
quality of the systems of internal control adopted by major Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Corporate Governance continued STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE service providers, and ensures regular communication of the In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, and of the the UK Listing Authority, this report outlines how the Company incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that has applied the principles of, and complied with, the have been identied at any time and the extent to which they provisions of the Combined Code published in 1998. have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Companys performance Except as explained below, the Company has complied or condition.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust throughout the year with the best practice provisions in framework of internal control in place this can provide only Section 1 of the Combined Code: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Board considers the Chairman to be the main point of financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, contact to whom concerns from whatever source or of not eliminate, risk.
whatever nature may be conveyed.
In the event that a The Board will continue to monitor its framework of internal shareholder does not wish to raise a concern with him, the control and will continue to take steps to embed the system Board is of the view that such a shareholder should be free to of internal control and risk management into the operations contact any of its other non-executive members and it has of the Company.
decided that it is not appropriate to nominate a single senior independent Director.
The Board has agreed that an internal audit function, for the 28 SVIIT Group, should be established and has appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as its internal auditor.
The internal audit process is on-going and the findings of the internal auditor are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
This assessment took into account issues arising from the reports reviewed by the Board during the year together with any additional information necessary to enable the Board to take account of all significant aspects of internal control.
