directors report how the company works board and committees relations with stockholders board matters and delegation communications with stockholders Strategy is considered and determined by the Board.
In addition, certain other matters are reserved for decision by The Company encourages communication with stockholders the Board on the basis of their importance to the Company.
on matters of mutual concern and interest.
All registered What these reserved matters are is reviewed by the Board stockholders receive the annual report and accounts and from time to time.
Specific authority is given to Board the interim statement each year.
These are also sent to committees to carry out identified tasks, and day-to-day stockholders who hold their stock through nominees and management is delegated to the executive directors.
have requested such information from the Company.
com, which for regulatory reasons is operated by ATS, is updated daily for stock price meetings of directors and net asset value information, monthly for investment Board meetings are held monthly.
With the exception of the position and performance and contains other information Chairman, the non-executive directors also serve on the about the Company.
For all these meetings the directors are provided, in advance, with financial reports The Annual General Meeting is held in Dundee and a warm and supporting papers which enable them to monitor invitation is extended to all owners of Second Alliance Trust operational and corporate issues as well as decide on policy.
Throughout the year, the management meets stockholders, institutional investors and financial advisers in Dundee and elsewhere, and at its investor committees of the board seminars for private investors which are held in various Details of the audit committee and its responsibilities are locations in the UK.
given on page 26 in the section on accountability and audit.
Much communication with stockholders is achieved through No standing nomination committee has been constituted.
ATS, whose products all have as a common feature an Given the relatively small size of the Board, the non-executive investment in the stock of the Company or the Alliance Trust.
majority of its members and the regularity and frequency of its meetings, the Board as a whole is able to fulfil the notification by substantial formal procedures required before a director is appointed.
stockholders Details of the remuneration committee and its As at 12 September 2003, the Company had been notified responsibilities are set out on page 28 in the directors of the following interests: remuneration report.
Ordinary stock units The Alliance Trust PLC and subsidiaries 4,608,278 24.0% D C Thomson & Co Limited 1,903,428 9.9% executive committee The Standard Life Assurance Company 1,069,567 5.6% The chief executive has, with the Boards approval, Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 595,140 3.1% appointed an executive committee to which major Preference stock management issues arising within the Company are The Alliance Trust PLC 351,936 44.0% referred for consideration.
Aboyne-Clyde Rubber Estates of Ceylon PLC 100,000 12.5% Ecclesiastical Insurance Office PLC 80,592 10.1% The executive committee comprises the executive directors Peter S Allen & Judith M Allen 64,963 8.1% Gavin Suggett, Sheila Ruckley, Alan Young and, since his Jennifer Claire Allen 56,505 7.1% appointment in January 2003, David Deards and Neil The Investment Company PLC 29,356 3.7% Anderson, Colin Beveridge and Kevin Dann.
Neil Anderson This stock is held for its customers by Alliance Trust Savings in is the manager responsible for IT development.
Colin PEPs, ISAs and Investment Plans and as trustee of the Select Beveridge is chief investment officer and Kevin Dann is the Pension.
Prior to general meetings of the Company, ATS offers its customers the opportunity to instruct how their stock is voted, and managing director of ATS.
only votes on instructions received.
