Corporate Governance Mr Hodson is employed on a rolling service Combined Code contract which is subject to two years notice The Board remains committed to maintaining by either party.
In view of the key position high standards of corporate governance which Mr Hodson holds in the Company the throughout the Group.
The Listing Rules of the Board considers the notice period of two years Financial Services Authority require UK listed to be acceptable, and as Mr Hodson reaches companies to report on the manner in which they his 58th birthday in May 2004, and the apply the principles of Good Governance and the Companys normal retirement age is 60, the extent to which they comply with the Provisions term of his contract will reduce on a daily set out in the Code of Best Practice.
basis thereafter: Following the publication in January 2003 of the as at 31 December 2003 a process to evaluate Higgs Review on non-executive directors and the the effectiveness of Board Committees had Smith Report on audit committees, the not been put in place.
This requirement is Combined Code has been amended and the currently under review and will be completed revised Code came into effect for financial years during 2004. beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
During the year, the Board implemented a review of its Board Memberships policies in the area of corporate governance and as a result has improved its practices in a number The Board comprises the Non-Executive of areas: including a number of changes to Board Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group procedures, its induction programme for new Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer, directors, the terms of reference for its Board and the Non-Executive Directors.
committees and an evaluation process for the As at 1 January 2003, the Executive Directors effectiveness of directors.
The Board will were Mr Hodson, Chairman and Chief Executive continue to review and take whatever steps it and Mr Gibbins, the Group Finance Director considers appropriate to reflect the revised Code and Chief Operating Officer.
satisfied, in view of its size and the degree of The Board considers that as at 31 December delegation of the management of the Groups 2003 the Company had complied with the operating subsidiary companies to the directors provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 of those companies, that the two key functions of Combined Code except for the following: running the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the business the recommendation that the Remuneration could be properly combined and that there was a committee should only comprise independent clear division of responsibilities between the non-executive directors.
The Board does not Chairman and the Chief Operating Officer, such accept this recommendation for the Company that neither could exercise unfettered powers of as it considers that Mr Selway-Swift, as decision on matters of material importance to the Chairman, should participate in any decisions Groups affairs.
concerning remuneration due to his experience and the fact that encompassed in On 29 April 2003, at the Companys Annual his role is the supervision of the Board: General Meeting, Sir Harry Djanogly retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
The Board re-aligned responsibilities from that date.
Mr Hodson relinquished the position of Chairman to concentrate exclusively on his role as Chief Executive and Mr Selway-Swift was appointed as Chairman of the company on 29 April 2003.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 15 Corporate Governance continued In order to widen the breadth and experience of retirement.
Dr Rutherford and Mr Bernays the Board, two new Non-Executive Directors attended all the meetings from the date of their were appointed to the Board during the year.
respective appointments to the Board.
Mr Bernays was appointed on 10 March 2003 Mr Shearer gave his apologies for his non and Dr Rutherford was appointed on 29 April attendance at one meeting since his appointment 2003. to the Board.
On 1 July 2003, Mr Shearer was appointed as an The Non-Executive Directors meet at least Executive Director and took over the executive once a year without the presence of any responsibilities that were held by Mr Gibbins on Executive Directors.
Mr Gibbins retired as a The Company Secretary is responsible for Director of the Company on 31 December 2003. ensuring that Board processes and procedures The Non-Executive Directors have a wide range are appropriately followed and support effective of outside business interests, and the Board decision making.
All Directors have access to the considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be Company Secretarys advice and services and independent.
The Senior Non-Executive there is also a formal procedure for Directors to Director was Sir Harry Djanogly until his obtain independent professional advice in the retirement when Sir Brandon Gough was course of their duties, if necessary, at the appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Director.
An induction programme is arranged for all new Directors.
This covers the major operating business of the Company as well The Board as the roles and responsibilities of Directors The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
Directors receive subsequent training Substantive agenda items have briefing papers, as and when required.
which are circulated in a timely manner before each meeting.
The Board is satisfied that it is The Companys Articles of Association provide supplied with all the information that it requires that each Director must submit themselves for and requests, in a form and of a quality to enable election at the Annual General Meeting next it to discharge its duties.
In addition to ongoing following their appointment, and subsequently matters concerning the management of the for re-election every three years.
Company and of the Group, the Board has The Board has delegated some of its determined certain items which are reserved for responsibilities to Committees.
All of the decision by itself.
These matters include the Committees have written terms of reference, acquisition and disposal of other than minor copies of which are available from the Company businesses, the issue of capital by any Group Secretary.
company and any transaction by a subsidiary company, that cannot be made within its own Audit Committee resources, or that is not in the normal course of its business.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Brandon Gough and its members are himself, Mr Bernays During the year the Board met formally on eight and Dr Rutherford.
The Committee has met four occasions.
Mr Selway-Swift, Mr Hodson, times during the year.
Its terms of reference are Mr Gibbins and Sir Brandon Gough attended all in line with those recommended by the the meetings during the year.
Sir Harry Djanogly Combined Code, and its discussions and attended all the meetings up to the date of his proceedings are reported to the Board.
It provides a forum for discussing with the Groups 16 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 External Auditors their report on the annual and Remuneration Committee interim accounts, reviewing the scope and results The Remuneration Committee is chaired by of the internal audit work programme, the Mr Selway-Swift and its members are himself, reports of the Risk Review Committee, Mr Bernays and Dr Rutherford.
The Committee Compliance Department, Group Risk and meets as required, and during the year the Internal Audit and considering any other matters Committee held five meetings at which all the which might have a financial impact on the Committee members attended.
This includes reviewing the Groups makes recommendations to the Board on system of internal control and the process for Executive Directors remuneration policy and evaluating and monitoring risk.
The Committee specifically approves the remuneration and other reviews the objectivity of the External Auditors, detailed terms of service of the Executive including the level of non-audit services Directors.
The Report on Directors provided, and ensures that there is an Remuneration on pages 20 to 23 includes details appropriate audit relationship.
of the Companys executive remuneration policy and practice.
The External Auditors are invited to attend all the Audit Committee meetings, and other Board members are invited to attend as appropriate.
Nomination Committee Part of each meeting of the Audit Committee is In April 2003, the Board established a separate held between the Non-Executive Directors and Nomination Committee in order to adopt the External Auditors in private.
The individuals formally some of the suggestions of best practice, responsible for the Companys internal audit as set out in the Higgs Report.
The Nomination function have direct access to the Chairman of Committee is chaired by Mr Selway-Swift and its the Audit Committee.
The Committee also other members are Sir Brandon Gough and reviews the appointment and terms of reference Mr Hodson.
The Committee has met once since of the External Auditors and monitors the level its establishment and that meeting was attended of non-audit services provided by the Auditors.
by all of the Committee members.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
Shareholder Communications During the year the Audit Committee sought The Chief Executive and the Chief Operating tenders for the audit services.
After a thorough Officer maintain a regular programme of visits review of the audit tendering process, the Audit and presentations to major institutional Committee recommended to the Board that shareholders.
KPMG Audit Plc remain the Companys External The Board welcomes the attendance of all Auditors.
shareholders at the AGM, in particular by private For work, except in respect of regulatory shareholders.
Shareholders are encouraged to reporting, tax compliance and circulars to submit their questions in writing in advance of shareholders, the prior approval of the the AGM so that a considered response can be Committee is required to engage the external given.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration auditors for any piece of work when the fee is in and Nomination Committees are available at the excess of 50,000 or which would bring the total AGM to answer questions.
Each matter to be fees for such work for the year to more than voted on at the meeting is proposed as a 100,000. separate resolution.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 17 Corporate Governance continued The Company aims to present a balanced and Officer, chairs the monthly meeting of the Risk understandable assessment in all its reports to Review Committee.
The Committee is shareholders, its regulators and the wider public.
responsible for the ongoing assessment of the Key announcements and other information can adequacy of controls established to mitigate and be found at www.
Risks include credit, market, operational and reputational risks, new business products and other issues including liquidity, Internal Control and Financial funding and the management of equity capital.
Reporting The Committee, under the delegated authority of The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible the Group Board, administers the delegation of for the Companys system of internal control, and all limit and approval authorities throughout the for reviewing its effectiveness.
control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risks which are inherent in the Groups The Board has adopted a set of Group risk business, and can provide only reasonable and policies and standards, which are applied not absolute assurance against material throughout the Group.
Compliance with these misstatement or loss.
standards is monitored by the Group Risk and Group Internal Audit functions and deficiencies Following publication of guidance for directors are reported to the Risk Review Committee.
on internal control, Internal Control: Guidance Within this framework, management are for Directors on the Combined Code the responsible for the identification and evaluation Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that of significant risks applicable to their areas of there is an ongoing process for identifying, business, together with the design and operation evaluating and managing the significant risks of suitable internal controls.
These risks are faced by the Group.
This process has been in assessed on a continual basis and may be place for the year under review, and up to the associated with a variety of internal or external date of approval of these Report and Accounts.
sources, including control breakdowns, The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the disruption in information systems, competition, Groups system of internal control at its meeting natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The review covered all controls, including financial, operational and The Group risk policies also set out a process of compliance controls and risk management.
The control, self-assessment and hierarchical Company complied with the Turnbull guidance reporting which provides for a documented and throughout the year.
These procedures are relevant across the Groups The following is a summary of the means by operations, and provides for successive which the Board discharges its internal assurances to be given at increasingly higher control responsibilities.
levels of management and finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by Group Risk and In 1997 the Board established a Risk Review Group Internal Audit who also provide a degree Committee, whose role is to review, monitor and of assurance as to the operation and validity of ratify or approve all risks arising within the the system of internal control.
The Chief Executive of the Group or his actions are monitored by Group Internal Audit to nominated deputy, normally the Chief Operating ensure timely completion with any overdue actions which are reported to the Group Board on a monthly basis.
18 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 The Board established Group Standards for For the reporting period ending 31 December Compliance the Standards in 1995.
The 2005 the Groups consolidated accounts must Standards seek to apply uniformly high standards comply with International Financial Reporting of integrity, fair dealing and market conduct to Standards IFRS.
All Group The International Accounting Standards Board companies which are subject to regulation are IASB, which develops and issues IFRS, has required to have proper management controls to significant ongoing projects that could affect the ensure that their business is conducted in difference between current UK accounting accordance with local regulatory requirements at requirements UK GAAP and IFRS.
The Groups compliance officers have actual impact on the consolidated financial responsibility for compliance with regulatory statements of the adoption of IFRS will depend requirements.
The Standards require that the on the standards applicable and the particular board of each regulated company is provided circumstances prevailing on adoption of IFRS.
with a quarterly report on compliance issues, and a summary of these reports is considered by the The Group has reviewed the requirements of Group Audit Committee.
In addition, there is a IFRS and has compared such requirements to requirement for the immediate reporting of UK GAAP.
Having completed this review the certain key events to both the local board, and Group has identified the major areas of centrally to the Group.
difference between IFRS and UK GAAP and is working towards addressing these differences and There is a well established internal audit function identifying their likely impact on the future within the Group.
The internal audit functions results of the Group.
Given the IASBs ongoing role is primarily to review the effectiveness and projects referred to above, the differences adequacy of controls and procedures established identified by the Group may change.
Any such by each company to manage risk.
A risk based changes will be addressed as part of the audit programme is agreed annually in advance conversion plan which the Group is working to, with the Group Audit Committee, and the Head in order to achieve compliance with IFRS from of Internal Audit attends each meeting of the 2005 onwards.
Committee to present a summary of the audit reports completed during the period, and to provide any explanations required by the By order of the Board Committee.
Additionally, the Head of Internal Stephen Doherty, Secretary Audit has unfettered access to all members of the 26 February 2004 Audit Committee at all times.
The Groups system of internal financial control includes appropriate levels of authorisation, segregation of duties and limits for each aspect of the business.
There are established procedures and information systems for regular budgeting and reporting of financial information.
Financial reports are presented to the Board monthly detailing the results and other performance data.
The Group Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial control.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 19
