Corporate Governance Report General principles The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate governance.
During the year to 31 December 2003, the Company, as detailed below and in the Remuneration Report, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code other than in respect of the duration of two of the Executive Directors service contracts.
For the information of shareholders, so far as possible the Company, in this report and the Remuneration Report, also reports against the relevant provisions of the revised Combined Code which will come into effect for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Chief Executives service contract is terminable by one years notice.
The service contracts of Chris Girling and Roger Robinson are terminable in normal circumstances by two years notice.
These two-year contracts were entered into in good faith at a time when contracts of such a period were usual.
The Board does not consider it appropriate to negotiate shorter periods, particularly as it has been the practice of the Group to require mitigation in the event of termination.
It is likely that any new appointments will be made on the terms of one years notice or on a longer period reducing within a defined interim period to one year.
Ethics and Business Integrity Policy Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity and ethics which underlies the Groups values of openness, collaboration, mutual dependency, professional delivery, focus on sustainable, profitable growth and innovation.
The policy requires Carillion to conduct its business to the highest ethical standards.
It applies to all employees and the way Carillion delivers this policy is and will be reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through the quality and value of its work and the reputation of its employees.
The requirements of the policy are in summary: Business Integrity: we do not sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or gifts-in-kind.
Mutual Respect: we treat our people fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding discrimination and bullying.
We provide a safe and healthy working environment, and respect sustainable principles in all our dealings.
Trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies, respecting diverse traditions and cultures.
We respect the trust placed in us by others, not least when we are asked to take responsibility for aspects of their business or resources.
We demand and maintain high professional standards and demand honesty and openness.
Legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings.
We maintain a system for confidential reporting of breaches of our standards and policies.
Human Rights: we support the belief that human rights are universal and adhere to the principles of human rights in our operations.
We support the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights.
Directors The Board The Company is led by a Board comprising three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout 2003, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the Board and this continues to be the case.
With the exception of the Chairman, who previously was Group Chief Executive, each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent of management.
They each have wide areas of experience and have no business or other relationship that could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
Jean-Paul Parayre is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
A detailed internal review of the Boards structure, membership, procedures and effectiveness was conducted in 2003 by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The review took into account the views and preferences of each of the Directors and identified a number of areas where it was possible further to enhance the effectiveness of the Boards procedures and working practices.
Changes were successfully introduced in those areas.
This is the second year that such a review has taken place and it will be repeated annually.
Additionally, reviews of the performance of the Directors and of the Board have taken place.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to provide continuity, experience and governance while the Chief Executive provides leadership, energy, imagination and the driving force: the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of their respective roles encourages the Chairman and Chief Executive to work well together to provide effective and complementary stewardship: the Chairman must: take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board: consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive must: manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day to day activities: prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy: ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
20 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The Board has a programme of seven meetings during the year and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration and decision is maintained.
The matters so reserved include: statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim financial statements and the recommendation of dividends: appointments to and removals from the Board and the terms of reference and membership of Board committees: approval of Group strategy and annual budgets: approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies: authorisation for any acquisition or disposal: review of the internal control arrangements and risk management strategies: and review of corporate governance arrangements.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Group as a whole, together with reports on other trading matters, markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Board Committees The principal Board committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of these committees.
The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: Remuneration Committee Andrew Parrish, Chairman Roger Dickens Jean-Paul Parayre The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 26 to 33.
Sir Neville Simms stood down from the Remuneration Committee on 9 September 2003.
Audit Committee Roger Dickens, Chairman Jean-Paul Parayre Andrew Parrish Sir Neville Simms stood down from the Audit Committee on 9 September 2003.
This Committee now consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit Committee on page 23.
Nominations Committee Sir Neville Simms, Chairman Roger Dickens Jean-Paul Parayre Andrew Parrish This Committee also comprises all Non-Executive Directors, the majority of whom are independent, under the chairmanship of Sir Neville Simms.
It reviews the Board structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession planning to ensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
Whilst no Board appointments were made in 2003, the Committee has previously used an external search consultancy for this purpose.
The terms of reference of each of these committees are available on the Carillion website at www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
21 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance at meetings in 2003 Each Director attended all meetings of the Board in 2003, save that Mr Robinson was unable to attend the January meeting, and Mr Dickens the October meeting, in each case as a result of illness.
The following tables show the attendance of Committee members at meetings of those Committees during the year ended 31 December 2003: Audit Committee Date of meeting 10 March 2003 4 September 2003 9 December 2003 Roger Dickens Roger Dickens Roger Dickens Jean-Paul Parayre Andrew Parrish Jean-Paul Parayre Andrew Parrish Sir Neville Simms Andrew Parrish Sir Neville Simms Remuneration Committee Date of meeting 28 January 2003 11 March 2003 8 December 2003 Andrew Parrish Andrew Parrish Andrew Parrish Roger Dickens Roger Dickens Roger Dickens Jean-Paul Parayre Jean-Paul Parayre Jean-Paul Parayre Nominations Committee Date of meeting 16 December 2003 Sir Neville Simms Roger Dickens Jean-Paul Parayre Andrew Parrish Other Board matters Policy on external appointments Recognising that external appointments can broaden their knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
John McDonough and Chris Girling have such appointments as Non-Executive Directors of Exel plc and Barlow Group Limited respectively.
Nomination and remuneration of Directors The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are normally for three years: re-appointment is subject to review and is not automatic.
As an exception to this, the Chairman has a service contract which commenced on 1 February 2001 for a period of two years and which now continues by agreement unless and until terminated by either party giving one years notice.
The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Directors is based on independent external advice.
The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 33.
Retirement of Directors by rotation The Articles of Association of the Company provide that each Director shall retire from office and shall be eligible for re-election at the third Annual General Meeting after the meeting at which he was elected or last re-elected.
All Directors appointed by the Board are subject to retirement and election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following such appointment.
The Directors retiring and seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 May 2004 are Sir Neville Simms, Jean-Paul Parayre, Roger Dickens and John McDonough.
The service contract of John McDonough and the terms and conditions of appointment of Sir Neville Simms, Jean-Paul Parayre and Roger Dickens are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday bank holidays excepted and at the Annual General Meeting.
22 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Induction and development of Directors An induction schedule for new Directors has been reviewed and approved by the Board.
The schedule ensures the provision of information on the role of a Director of a listed company and summarises responsibilities and ongoing obligations under legislation, regulation and best practice.
It also ensures that the operations of the Carillion Group are understood by new Directors.
The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
Relations with shareholders In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time to time, the Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
The details of these meetings are reported to the Board.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, Mr Parayre, are available for meetings with representatives of major shareholders as required.
Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
It also sets out to comply fully with the provisions of the revised Combined Code in this respect.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2004 to respond to shareholders questions.
Accountability and Audit Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee now consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors: Roger Dickens, Chairman Jean-Paul Parayre Andrew Parrish Roger Dickens is a chartered accountant who is Chairman of West Bromwich Building Society and who formerly served on the Audit Committee of Tarmac plc.
Roger was appointed to the Audit Committee in May 2000.
Jean-Paul Parayre is Chairman of Vallourec S. A. and was formerly a member of the Audit Committee of Tarmac plc.
Jean-Paul became an Audit Committee member in July 1999.
Andrew Parrish was previously Chief Executive of Senior plc, is a member of the CBIs Manufacturing Council and is also Chairman of the National Stud.
Andrew was appointed to the Audit Committee in March 2000.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others as it requires from time to time.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external and internal auditors.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: the review of the annual and interim financial statements: consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations and the financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group: compliance with statutory and other external requirements: reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the results of its audit work and the response of management: reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its cost-effectiveness: ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are complementary: monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and ensuring that the services provided including non-audit services provide a proper balance between objectivity and value for money: recommending to the Board the external auditors to be proposed to shareholders for appointment.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any necessary information to fulfil its duties ii call any member of staff to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and iii obtain outside legal help and any professional advice, at the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment of its duties.
The members of the Committee receive fees for their Non-Executive Directorships which reflect their membership of the Audit Committee and other Board committees.
23 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance Report continued Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to 31 December 2003 Financial statements The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
In this context, the Committee also reviews the written reports of KPMG on issues arising from the annual audit and the review of the interim results.
Internal controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal control system.
However, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial faced by the Group including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across the Group is provided through a mix of techniques: Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the business and reports its findings to management, the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is presented to and approved by the Audit Committee annually: recommendations to improve the system of control are made by Internal Audit.
The implementation of these recommendations is followed up and reported on quarterly: Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification procedures and control processes implemented by management: a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls are in place and are operating effectively: and Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application of internal controls in key business projects and on policy and procedure changes.
Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures that the level of confidence required by the Board is obtained.
It also ensures the financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly and the Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee members.
The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee see below.
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identified so maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identified and considered.
The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business acquisitions and disposals.
This committee has delegated authority up to specified levels, beyond which Board approval is required.
Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
Wherever possible, the Board operates a policy of prosecuting individuals found to have defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
Learning points for management are identified and action plans implemented to minimise the recurrence of fraud.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party is available.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies set by the Board in its areas of business.
Regular performance review meetings are held where management reports to the Executive Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
24 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in the business and the external environment that affect significant risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial information, which includes key performance indicators see the Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 to 13 and a summary of risk.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by the Audit Committee.
Audit independence The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG, in their reporting to shareholders.
The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of KPMG unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with the auditors, without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgmental areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of audit directors responsibilities within KPMG is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
The current audit director responsible for the engagement has held his role for four years following the last rotation.
There is also rotation within the audit teams.
Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been and are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
In summary, the procedures are: Audit related services: as auditors this is the main area of work of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting support is required then this is considered competitively: Tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other tax consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated competitively: General and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects are subject to competitive tender.
Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give prior approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Health and safety A review of the Groups progress on health and safety, environmental and social performance is contained in the Corporate and Social Responsibility section on pages 14 to 17.
R F Tapp Secretary 10 March 2004 25 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
