CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 22 The Company is committed to achieving high standards of Corporate Governance and to maintaining high levels of integrity and ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
Compliance Statement Directors The Board considers that it has complied throughout the The Company applies the provisions of the Combined financial period ending 31 December 2003 with the Code through the Board and its Committees, which meet Principles of Good Governance as set out in the Listing regularly and have ready access to all relevant information Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined required to enable effective decision making.
In addition, the Board has carried out a review of the Groups corporate governance policies following The full Board meets four times a year, with additional publication by the Financial Reporting Council of the meetings arranged on an ad hoc basis as required.
During revised Combined Code in July 2003.
The Company 2003 there were four Board Meetings at which all intends to comply with the provisions and principles of Directors were present with the exception of the following: the new Code for the financial year to 31 December 2004, where it is feasible and practical to do so.
Meeting Apologies February 2003 Mario dUrso Board Processes May 2003 Viscount Weir The Company remains dedicated to the maintenance of October 2003 Mario dUrso, Grenville Turner high standards of corporate governance.
This report explains the approach the Company has taken to comply Board members are given appropriate documentation in with the principles set out in Section 1 of the existing advance of each Board meeting.
This will normally include Combined Code.
It also reports on additional areas of detailed reports on current trading, operational issues disclosure under the new Code.
including compliance, recruitment and retention of advisers, as well as papers from the Finance Director and The statement of the Directors responsibilities in the Appointed Actuary.
The Board also receives reports preparing the accounts is set out on pages 27 and 28 and from the Chairmen of the various Committees of the statement from the auditor on its reporting the Board.
responsibilities is on pages 43 and 44.
The statement on going concern can be found on page 28.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 23 The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically The Board delegates day to day business and risk reserved to it.
The primary responsibilities of the Board management control to the executive Directors and other are to: senior executives, who meet formally every month to determine the overall strategy of the Group: consider operational issues as well as business development ensure that the Groups operations are well managed plans, financial and operating budgets and forecasts, and proper succession plans are in place: capital expenditure proposals and key performance review major transactions or initiatives proposed by the indicators.
Their decisions are communicated throughout executive Directors: the Group as appropriate.
implement appropriate Corporate Governance procedures: During the year to 31 December 2003, until the periodically review the results and operations of resignation of Martin Moule in August 2003, the Board the Group: consisted of 5 executive and 9 non-executive Directors, ensure that proper accounting records are maintained following which the number of executive directors and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the reduced to 4 until the end of the year.
5 of the nonassets of the Group from fraud and other significant executive directors were considered by the Board to be risks: and independent of management and free from any business or decide the Groups policy on charitable and other relationships which could materially interfere with political donations.
the exercise of their judgement, being Viscount Weir, Charles Bailey, Derek Netherton, Michael Sorkin and In addition, a Board Control Manual sets out the primary Mario dUrso.
The senior independent non-executive policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Group Director during the year to 31 December 2003 was and defines the terms of reference of the Committees set Viscount Weir.
The Board is satisfied with, and believe their out below.
It also contains the detailed job descriptions of actions clearly demonstrate, the continued independence the Directors showing their individual responsibilities.
of Viscount Weir and Derek Netherton, notwithstanding The Board Control Manual is reviewed by the that they have been appointed to the Board for a period Board annually.
The Board will continue to review the position annually.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman, Sir Mark Weinberg, to ensure the continued effectiveness of the The terms and conditions of appointment of the Board of Directors and he liaises with the Chief Executive, non-executive Directors are available on request.
Mike Wilson, to make recommendations to the Board on Group strategy.
The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Group and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 24 The Board considers that it is currently not practical for During 2004, the Chairman will hold separate meetings the Company to comply with the provision of the new with the non-executive Directors and the Board will carry Combined Code that at least half the Board should out an annual evaluation of its own performance and of its comprise independent non-executive Directors, due to committees and individual Directors.
The non-executive the terms of the Relationship Agreement with HBOS plc Directors will be responsible for the performance whereby HBOS is entitled to appoint a number of evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views Directors to the Board.
Further details on the of the executive Directors.
Relationship Agreement can be found on page 27.
However, the Company intends to ensure continued Board Committees compliance with the existing Combined Code whereby a The Board has formally constituted 5 committees, being majority of non-executive Directors should be the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, Compliance and independent.
The Board is currently looking to recruit a Urgent Issues Committees.
The membership and Terms of new independent non-executive Director following the Reference of the Board committees are reviewed at least resignation of Mario dUrso in February 2004. annually and are available on request and summarised below.
Shareholders will also be aware of the Board changes announced in July 2003, whereby it is intended that Mike Audit Committee Wilson, the current Chief Executive, is appointed as The Audit Committee, chaired by Derek Netherton, full-time Chairman of the Company no later than comprises two other independent non-executive December 2004.
Further details on Board changes and Directors Charles Bailey and Lord Weir and one nonsuccession planning can be found in the Chairmans independent non-executive Director Phil Hodkinson as Statement on page 4. an appointee of HBOS plc in accordance with the Relationship Agreement.
Directors receive training in their duties and responsibilities on appointment as part of an induction process designed During 2003, the Committee met four times with all to assist them in their understanding of the business.
The members present with the exception of the February Directors are regularly updated on their duties and 2003 meeting when Lord Weir was absent.
It meets with responsibilities and have access to the advice of the executive Directors and management, as well as privately Company Secretary and to independent professional with both the external and internal auditors to: advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is provided as necessary, to ensure the examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of whole Board is kept abreast of developments applicable to the Group, including reviewing and advising the Board their roles.
on the Companys interim and annual financial statement and management information, internal control procedures, risk management processes, accounting policies and compliance with accounting standards: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 25 In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has established a financial limit of 100,000 on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of advice and consultancy work.
review the nature and scope of the work to be Bailey, Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin.
A summary performed by the external and internal auditors, the of the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee results of the audit work and the response of management: is set out below: make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors and to monitor to determine all aspects of executive Directors and their performance: senior management remuneration: review the non-audit services provided by the external to determine the discretionary bonus scheme for auditors and to maintain responsibility for ensuring the executive Directors and to review the performance of independence, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the the Directors against the scheme: external auditors: to determine appropriate incentives to executive review the activities, resources, organisational Directors to encourage enhanced performance structure and operational effectiveness of the internal including grants of options or awards of shares and audit function: determining the policy and performance conditions of assess the continued effectiveness of the Board and such grants or awards: its committees: to determine the policy for and scope of termination approve the internal audit plan for the year and receive payments and severance terms for executive Directors: reports on, and review, the results of such internal to be responsible for selecting, appointing and setting audits: the terms of reference for any remuneration review the effectiveness of the Groups system of consultants who advise the committee.
internal control and the appropriateness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
Further details on the work of the Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 41.
In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee has established a financial limit of Meetings are held on an ad-hoc basis as issues arise.
100,000 on the fees that can be paid to the external The Committee met in January 2003 to determine auditors in respect of advice and consultancy work.
remuneration issues for the year.
The Committee reviews the auditors independence Nomination Committee annually and an audit tender process will be undertaken Sir Mark Weinberg chairs the Nomination Committee, every five years, commencing in 2005. which considers appointments to the Board and the independence of any proposed new non-executive Remuneration Committee Directors.
The other members of the Nomination The Remuneration Committee comprises solely Committee are Viscount Weir and Michael Sorkin.
The Committee, chaired by the Viscount Weir, also comprises Charles CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 26 The Companys Annual General Meeting is held in London where members of the Board are available to answer shareholders questions on the activities of the Board and its committees.
The Committee meets as required.
During 2003, the regulatory risks and issues.
The Committees main Committee members considered matters surrounding responsibilities are: Board succession and the appointment of the Deputy Chief Executive.
A detailed specification of the role and reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the capabilities required for the appointment of the Deputy compliance and regulatory risk policies and procedures Chief Executive was prepared and this specification was of the Group: then passed to an external search agency to identify monitoring the results of regulatory visits to potential candidates.
As a result of this process, Mark the Group: Lund was identified as a suitable candidate and, following approving the compliance monitoring plan for the year thorough interviewing and referencing, the appointment and receiving reports on, and reviewing the results of, was recommended to the Board by the Committee by such compliance monitoring activity: written resolution.
making recommendations for changes in regulatory risk related practices or procedures.
A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee is set out below: During 2003, the Committee met eight times to discuss a number of regulatory issues affecting the Group.
to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge Urgent Issues Committee and experience required for a role and the preparation Comprising the Chairman or the Chief Executive and at of a description of any new role and the capabilities least two other Directors, one of whom must be a nonrequired: executive Director, the role of the Urgent Issues to consider new appointments and to make Committee is to make decisions on matters of urgency recommendations on suitable candidates to the Board: which cannot await the next meeting of the Board.
It can to consider succession planning for senior executive act only by unanimous decision.
If this cannot be reached, positions and the need for the progressive refreshing of the issue under consideration will be referred for decision the Board.
The Committee did not meet during 2003.
Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee, chaired by Anthony Directors and Officers Insurance Loehnis, is made up of executive Directors Sir Mark The Group has effected insurance covering Directors and Weinberg, David Bellamy, Ian Gascoigne, Mark Lund and officers against liabilities, which they may incur in their Mike Wilson and non-executive Directors Anthony capacity as Directors or officers.
Loehnis and Charles Bailey to deal explicitly with CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 27 Relationship with HBOS plc investors and their representatives.
Attendance notes from A quoted company which has a majority shareholder must such meetings are circulated to members of the Board so be capable at all times of carrying out its business they are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The independently of such a shareholder and all transactions senior independent Director is available for consultation and relationships between the company and the with shareholders should the need arise.
Non-executive controlling shareholder must be at arms length and on a Directors are also available to meet with major normal commercial basis.
To this end, the Company and shareholders on request.
Halifax Group plc entered into the Relationship Agreement to regulate the relationship between the two The Companys Annual General Meeting is held in companies after the completion of the Partial Offer in London where members of the Board are available to June 2000.
Following the merger of Halifax and Bank of answer shareholders questions on the activities of the Scotland on 10 September 2001, the Relationship Board and its committees.
Where possible, timing and Agreement was novated to HBOS plc.
location of the meeting is designed to encourage the participation of small shareholders.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company can operate independently of Statement of Directors Responsibilities the HBOS group and to provide that the relationship Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial between members of the HBOS group and the SJPC statements for each financial year that give a true and fair Group will be conducted on an arms length basis.
Under view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Agreement, the HBOS group has power to appoint a the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
number of directors to the Board and its committees.
The In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are number varies in relation to HBOS shareholding in the also required to: Company.
At present, HBOS has exercised its right to appoint three non-executive Directors to the SJPC select suitable accounting policies and then apply Board and a representative to the Audit Committee of them consistently: the Company.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Relationships with Shareholders state whether applicable accounting standards have The Board maintains close relationships with institutional been followed, subject to any material departures shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings.
In disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and addition, there are regular meetings with the Companys prepare the financial statements on a going concern brokers, Cazenove and Co Limited and Dresdner basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Kleinwort Wasserstein, who facilitate meetings with other Group will continue in business.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 28 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper select suitable methodologies and then apply them accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy consistently: at any time the financial position of the Company and determine assumptions on a realistic basis, having which enable them to ensure that the financial statements regard to past, current and expected future experience comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general and to any relevant external data, and then apply them responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open consistently: to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the state whether applicable accounting standards have Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the been followed in relation to the residual assets, subject prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the supplementary information: and The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial prepare the supplementary information on the going statements on pages 45 to 79, the Group has used concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that appropriate accounting policies, which have been the Group will continue in business.
consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable Going Concern accounting standards have been followed.
The financial The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this The Guidance issued in December 2001 by the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Association of British Insurers entitled Supplementary preparing the accounts.
Reporting for Long Term Insurance Business the Achieved Profits Method the guidance requires the Risk Management and Internal Control Directors to prepare supplementary information presented The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of under the Achieved Profits Method in accordance with the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This guidance, as set out on pages 81 to 87. includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit and Compliance In preparing the achieved profits supplementary Committees along with an appropriately staffed and information, the Directors are required to: qualified Internal Audit function support the Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued 29 The Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining a strong controls culture within all business areas and have established processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In establishing the system of internal control, the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control Directors have regard to materiality of relevant risk, the including financial, operational, compliance and other risk likelihood of a risk occurring and the cost of mitigating management systems.
The review also includes the nature risk.
It is therefore designed to manage, rather than and scope of the ongoing monitoring processes, including eliminate risk and as such can provide only reasonable and the internal audit function, and the potential impact not absolute assurance against the risk of material on these processes as a result of any changes during the misstatement or loss.
year to the Groups risk profile.
The Directors and senior managers of the Group are Statement of Business Practice committed to maintaining a strong controls culture To further the Groups continued commitment to within all business areas and have established processes for Corporate Governance, the Company has published a evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the statement of business practice.
This statement, in the form Group.
In particular, the Groups senior management of a booklet entitled Our Approach, is provided to all adopts a risk management process that identifies the key employees and members of the St. Jamess Place vulnerabilities and risks facing each business area and Partnership and covers areas such as: reports, via internal audit, to the Audit Committee on how these risks and vulnerabilities are being managed.
The the Groups objectives: internal audit function adopts a risk based approach, with the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and their work plans being derived from assessments of the value is maintained: key risks facing the business, adopted as necessary to deal the Groups corporate culture and management style: with any emerging issues.
how the Group deals with internal and external communication: and The Groups senior management have clear defined the Groups commitment to the St. Jamess Place responsibilities and accountabilities for managing specific Foundation, more details of which can be found on areas of risk and these are documented in individual job pages 96 and 97. descriptions.
These are subject to frequent review to ensure that they remain aligned with business The booklet emphasises the values of integrity, trust, developments and any new or emerging risks.
openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions In addition to these ongoing procedures, the Audit and standards.
Committee conducts an annual review that considers the
