Corporate Governance The Board of Standard Chartered PLC is responsible for ensuring The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
proper standards of corporate governance are maintained and The Board is made up of seven executive directors and nine for accounting to shareholders.
Lord Stewartby is the senior non-executive director and the Deputy Chairman of the Board.
The Board This report has been prepared in accordance with the Principles considers that all of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice in the Combined of Mr D G Moir, are independent.
Mr Moir served as an executive Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services director of the Company from January 1993 until March 2000.
It explains how the Company has applied these principles throughout the financial year.
The All directors are subject to reappointment at least every three years.
directors are also required to confirm that the Company has The Board has appointed two committees of non-executive complied with the provisions of Appendix 14 Code of Best directors with specific delegated authorities: the Remuneration Practice of the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Remuneration The directors confirm that, throughout the financial year, the Committee also acts as the Boards Nomination Committee to Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined consider the appointment of new directors, before seeking the Code and Appendix 14 of the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong final approval of the whole Board.
The Board is considering Stock Exchange except that the non-executive directors of the setting up a separate Nomination Committee.
Company were not appointed for specific terms.
A review of the non-executive directors appointments was carried out and they An external independent review of the committee structure is are now for specific terms.
In addition, a review of the executive being carried out.
directors notice periods following a change of control was carried out and these notice periods were reduced to one year.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee determines the pay and benefits Directors of the executive directors, including the Chairman.
It consists The full Board meets regularly, at least eight times a year, and exclusively of non-executive directors.
The remuneration of all has a formal schedule of matters reserved for it.
Two meetings a directors is subject to regular monitoring to ensure that levels of year are usually held in countries where the Group operates remuneration and compensation are appropriate.
The directors use these overseas A statement of the Companys remuneration policy for directors visits to meet staff, corporate customers and government officials.
is included in the directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 60.
The directors are given appropriate and timely information so that they can maintain full and effective control over strategic, Accountability and Audit financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Lord Stewartby with four other non-executive directors as members.
The Committee An external independent review of Board effectiveness was receives reports on the findings of internal and external audits carried out during 2003. and on action taken in response to these.
It meets with the The directors have a range of skills and experience and each Groups auditors when appropriate and reviews the scope, findings brings an independent judgement and considerable knowledge and cost effectiveness of the audit and the independence and to the Boards discussions.
On appointment, each director receives objectivity of the external auditors.
It also considers changes to information about the Group and is advised of the legal, regulatory the Groups accounting policies and examines the annual and and other obligations of a director of a listed company.
Directors interim financial statements before the Board approves them.
may take independent professional advice at the Companys Ultimate responsibility for the approval of the annual and interim expense, in appropriate circumstances.
All of the directors have financial statements rests with the Board.
In addition, the access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for Committee regularly reviews and reports to the Board on the ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk laws and regulations are complied with.
The removal of the management processes.
Company Secretary would be a matter for the whole Board.
Going Concern The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis when preparing the financial statements.
46 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Internal Control The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of The Board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its the Groups system of internal control during the year ended business and financial activities in a manner which enables it to 31 December 2003 and reported to the Board.
The review was maximise profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks supported by an annual business self-certification process which which can cause loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance was managed by Group Audit.
The Committee has also reviewed with applicable laws and regulations, and enhance resilience to the recommendations for provisions against bad or doubtful external events.
To achieve this, the Board has established a loans and other credit exposures.
process for the identification, evaluation and management of the risks faced by the Group which operated through the year ended Group Code of Conduct 31 December 2003 and to 18 February 2004, the date the Board The Board has approved a Group Code of Conduct relating to approved this annual report and accounts.
It should be recognised the lawful and ethical conduct of business.
These requirements that such a process can only provide reasonable, not absolute, are linked to the Groups five core values.
The Group Code of assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process is Conduct has been communicated to all employees.
All employees reviewed regularly by the Board and meets the requirements of are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing the guidance entitled Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on in relation to customers, staff, and regulators in the communities the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered in which the Group operates.
Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
The system of internal control of the Group is also subject to regulatory Relations with Shareholders oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
The Board recognises the importance of good communications with all shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional The Financial Review on pages 24 to 39 describes the Groups shareholders and general presentations are made when the risk management structure.
The Groups business is conducted financial results are announced.
The annual general meeting is within a developed control framework, underpinned by policy used as an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
statements, written procedures and control manuals.
This ensures The United Kingdom Combined Code and the Hong Kong Listing that there are written policies and procedures to identify and Rules require companies to post the notice of the annual general manage risk including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, meeting to shareholders at least 20 working days before the date regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk and credit of the meeting.
The Company aims to achieve this and will always risk.
The Board has established a management structure that give shareholders the 21days notice required by the United clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting lines.
Separate resolutions are proposed for authorities are documented and communicated.
Executive Risk each substantially separate issue.
The Company displays the proxy Committees regularly review the Groups risk profile.
voting results on each resolution at the annual general meeting.
The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends New Combined Code and forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets The Board notes the revised Combined Code on Corporate and prior periods are closely monitored.
Financial information is Governance, which was published by the Financial Reporting prepared using appropriate accounting policies which are applied Council in July 2003 the New Code, and acknowledges that it consistently.
Operational procedures and controls have been applies to the Company from 1 January 2004. established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls The Board supports the principles and provisions of the New include appropriate segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation Code which covers Board effectiveness and evaluation, Board of accounts, and the valuation of assets and positions.
balance and independence, succession planning, the procedure for the appointment, induction and ongoing training of directors, The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed and directors remuneration and service contracts.
regularly by the Board, its Committees, Group management, and The Board is pleased to report that the Company already complies Group Audit.
Group Audit monitors compliance with policies and with the majority of the provisions of the New Code and intends standards and the effectiveness of internal control structures to report fully on the Companys compliance with the New Code across the Group.
The work of Group Audit is focused on the during 2004, in the 2004 Annual Report.
areas of greatest risk as determined by a risk assessment approach.
Group Audit reports regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee, the Chairman, and to the Group Chief Executive.
The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Group Chief Executive and immediate corrective action is required.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 47 Corporate Governance Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities those associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and Standard Chartered complies with the guidelines issued by the emerging risks are escalated to senior management through clearly Association of British Insurers on socially responsible investment documented internal reporting procedures such as Manco.
and reporting on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters Group Audit monitors compliance with policies and standards and is committed to the communities and environments in and effectiveness of the Groups internal control structures which it operates.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that through its programme of business audits and annual high standards of responsible business are maintained and that Turnbull Review.
an effective control framework is in place.
Standard Chartered Key areas of risk are those associated with customers social has established and maintains policies and procedures in issues and any impact they may have on the natural environment.
relation to social, ethical and environmental related risks.
The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks Details of these policies can be found on the Companys website: and that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse www.
Through the Groups risk impact on the Groups business.
These risks have always been management structure and control framework, the Board receives implicitly recognised in reaching lending decisions but are now regular and adequate information to identify and assess significant explicitly identified in the Groups lending policy.
During 2003, the risks and opportunities arising from SEE matters.
Formal training Group adopted the Equator Principles that set procedures, arrangements are in place for key SEE issues, including based on the International Finance Corporation guidelines, for arrangements for directors.
recognising the environmental and social impacts and risks associated with project finance.
Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They also work with line management to assist them in designing procedures The Group continues to review and where appropriate, strengthen to ensure compliance with these requirements.
In every country its money laundering prevention policies, procedures and training.
the Country Management Committee Manco supported by the The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
Country Operational Risk Group CORG, is responsible for ensuring there are risk management frameworks in place to monitor, manage and report SEE risk.
The Country Chief Executives chair both the Manco and CORG.
Compliance with these policies and procedures is the responsibility of all managers.
In assessing, incentivising and rewarding performance, new guidance to managers was published during 2002.
This explicitly states that account should be taken of adherence to all relevant Group policies, including 48 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003
