Carpetright plc Annual report and 23 accounts 2003 Corporate governance This statement, together with the Directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 28, explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
Directors The Board currently consists of five Executive and four Non-Executive Directors and has six regularly scheduled meetings throughout the year.
The Non-Executive Directors are all considered by the Board to be independent, although Sir Harry Djanogly has been a Director for 10 years and therefore will not be treated as independent by the NAPF or PIRC, except for Mr Harris who began the year as a Non-Executive Director but resumed Executive Director status half-way through the year.
Each Board member receives monthly trading results, commentary and an update on key business issues and prior to each Board meeting receives a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be discussed at the meeting.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board covers key areas of the Companys affairs.
Under the Companys Articles of Association one-third of the Board is subject to retirement and re-election each year.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Directors have agreed that every Director will submit himself or herself for re-election at least every three years regardless of whether he or she would be required to retire by rotation under the Companys Articles of Association, and Darren Shapland, appointed as a Director on 1 November 2002, will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board does not consider it necessary to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive at this stage of the Companys development.
The calibre, experience and independence of the Non-Executive Directors, ensure that there is no undue dominance by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
There are no plans to separate these roles in the near future, although this will be kept under review.
Throughout the period Sir Harry Djanogly has been the Senior Independent Director.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees, as described below.
Executive Directors attend both the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on the request of the respective Chairman of the Committee.
During the year Baroness Noakes was Chairman of the Audit Committee and the other Committee members were Sir Harry Djanogly and Baroness Wilcox.
All the Committee members are Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, which meets at least twice a year, reviews the Companys interim and annual financial statements before submission for approval by the Board and considers any matters raised by the auditors.
In addition it reviews the Companys internal controls and advises the Board on such matters.
Baroness Wilcox Committee Chairman, Baroness Noakes and Sir Harry Djanogly served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
The terms of reference of this Committee are described fully in the Directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 28.
The Nomination Committee comprised Mr John Kitching, Mr Martin Toogood and Baroness Wilcox Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee considers the re-appointment of Directors retiring by rotation and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
Directors remuneration The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 25 to 28.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains good communications with shareholders.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss the strategies and objectives of the Company.
In accordance with the Companys usual practice, there will be a brief statement by the Chairman at the Annual General Meeting on current trading conditions, followed by further trading updates as listed on the Calendar on page 52.
It is intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will attend the Annual General Meeting.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Carpetright plc Corporate governance continued Annual report and 24 accounts 2003 Accountability and audit Directors responsibility The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 29.
The Statement by the Auditors on Corporate governance matters is contained in their report on page 29.
Going concern The Companys accounts have been prepared on the basis that the Company will continue to be a going concern for the foreseeable future.
In forming this opinion the Directors have reviewed the Companys budget for the year ending 1 May 2004 and outline projections for the subsequent year, including capital expenditure and cash flow forecasts.
Internal control In accordance with the Turnbull Report the Directors are required to report on their review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Companys systems of internal control and for monitoring their effectiveness.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In order to discharge this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The key procedures supporting such a framework are detailed below: Board approval of annual budgets.
Monthly performance reviews against budgets and forecasts.
Key performance indicators monitored weekly and monthly.
Regular Risk Management Committee meetings.
Regular visits to branches, the warehouses and central office by Internal Audit.
The Board has established a Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Finance Director, which includes the Sales Director, the Buying Director and representatives from different business functions including company secretarial, human resources, store operations, information technology, logistics and property.
It reviews, on a bi-monthly basis, the risk management and control process and considers: The response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: and The maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
The Finance Director reports on risk management developments to the Audit Committee which in turn reports on risk management developments to the Board.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified the appropriate action is taken, which may entail application to the Board for approval for items involving substantial expenditure.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its systems of internal control during the year.
In particular, a corporate Risk Register is reviewed regularly and updated annually as a means of identifying and evaluating the significant risks which affect the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, by reviewing the work of the Risk Management Committee, by reviewing the internal audit programme and its findings, reviewing the half year and annual financial statements, and the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identifiable risks are closely examined so that appropriate action may be taken, or directed.
The Health and Safety Committee meets at least twice each year.
Reports on the work of the Health and Safety Committee are made to the Risk Management Committee.
Details of auditors remuneration for audit work and non-audit fees for the periods ended 3 May 2003 and 27 April 2002 are disclosed in Note 4 to the Accounts.
Compliance with the Combined Code Save for the exceptions detailed below, the Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period ended 3 May 2003.
The exceptions are that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are combined, as discussed above, and that the Chairman and Chief Executives service contract allows for a two year notice period.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2003 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands.
