Corporate governance APPLICATION OF COMBINED CODE information on the financial condition of the PRINCIPLES Company.
Key representatives of IIM attend each The Board attaches great importance to ensuring Board meeting enabling directors to probe on that the Company operates to high ethical and matters of concern or seek clarification on certain compliance standards.
In addition, the Board seeks issues.
to observe the principles set out in the Combined There were seven Board meetings and two audit Code insofar as these are consistent with the committee meetings held during the year and the Companys status and objectives as an investment attendance by directors was as follows: trust.
The Company is headed by a Board comprised Number of meetings attended entirely of independent non-executive directors.
Board Audit Committee There are no executive directors to monitor and accordingly large parts of the Combined Code on John Reeve 7 2 matters such as ensuring a clear division of Gary Allen 5 1 responsibilities at the head of the Company, a John Hudson 7 2 balance of executive and non-executive directors and Richard Jewson 7 2 issues relating to remuneration of executive directors Field Walton 6 2 do not have any specific relevance to the Company.
Independence of the Directors COMPLIANCE WITH THE DETAILED Each of the directors is independent of any PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE association with the management company and has Operation of the Board no other relationships or circumstances which might Each of the directors is independent of any be perceived to interfere with the exercise of association with the management company which independent judgement.
Three of the five directors might be perceived to interfere with the exercise of Mr Reeve, Mr Hudson and Mr Walton have served independent judgement.
There is a formal schedule on the Board for more than nine years from the date of matters to be specifically approved by the Board of their first election, but given the nature of the and individual directors may seek independent Company as an investment trust and the strongly advice at the expense of the Company within certain independent mindset of the individuals involved, the limits.
The Board has delegated the investment Board is firmly of the view that all of the directors can management, within clearly defined parameters and be considered to be independent.
In arriving at this dealing limits, and the administration of the business conclusion the Board makes a clear distinction to Investec Investment Management Limited IIM.
between the activities of an investment trust and a The Board makes all strategic decisions, reviews the conventional trading company.
An investment trust performance of the Company at Board meetings and has no employees or executive directors, the only sets the objectives for the Managers.
Mr G J Allen is significant relationship being with the management the senior independent director.
In overseeing this relationship it is the view of the Board that long service aids the The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board, understanding, judgement, objectivity and inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are independence of the directors and in no way detracts followed and for compliance with applicable rules from any of these qualities.
All of the non-executive and regulations including the Combined Code.
directors are, therefore, considered to be Appointment or removal of the nominated independent.
representative of the Corporate Company Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board Re-election of directors as a whole.
All directors have access to the advice Directors are subject to election by shareholders at and service of the Company Secretary.
the first AGM following their appointment and, The content and presentation of Board papers thereafter, are subject to retirement by rotation at circulated before each meeting contain sufficient intervals of no more than three years.
In addition, the TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 18 Corporate governance continued appointment of each director is reviewed by other directors is a member of the audit committee and the members of the Board every three years within the Chairman is Mr Allen.
The auditors are invited to six month period before they are due to stand for reattend the audit committee meeting at which the election in general meetings.
Directors are not, annual accounts are considered and any other therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
Nonmeetings that the Committee deem necessary.
executive directors are not appointed for specified Nomination Committee terms.
Because of the nature of an investment trust A nomination committee was established during the the Board believes that the contribution and year to oversee a formal review procedure governing independence of a director is not diminished by long the appointment of new directors and to evaluate the service and, conversely, that a more detailed overall composition of the Board from time to time knowledge of the Company and its business has a taking into account the existing balance of skills and beneficial impact.
It is also responsible for assessing the The directors due to stand for re-election at the individual performance of directors and for making forthcoming AGM are Mr Reeve, Mr Hudson and Mr recommendations as to whether they should remain Walton, each of whom has served on the Board for in office.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
The Board has carefully Upon appointment to the Board each director considered the position of each of these directors receives relevant background information on the and believes it would be appropriate for them to be Company together with a summary of the duties and proposed for re-election.
In arriving at this responsibilities of directors.
There is, however, an recommendation the Board is mindful of the fact that assumption that any candidate considered suitable the other two directors currently serving on the Board for appointment to the Board is already sufficiently have been on the Board for only two years.
The conversant with listed company requirements and Board was, therefore, altered relatively recently.
If not, additional Furthermore, as stated above, it is the view of the training and guidance will be provided by the Board that long service in no way reduces the Company Secretary.
independence and objectivity of the directors.
Each of Mr Reeve, Mr Hudson and Mr Walton continue to Board Audit Committee Director ongoing be effective directors and to display an undiminished evaluation enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its performance, together with that of the audit Chairmans Commitments committee and the effectiveness of the individual The Chairman is also non-executive chairman of one directors within the context of service on those other quoted company and a director of a number of bodies.
The review encompasses an assessment of other companies.
He does not have a full time how cohesively these forums work as a whole as well executive role in any organisation and the Board is as the performance of the individuals within them.
A satisfied that he has sufficient time available to review of the effectiveness and commitment of the discharge fully his responsibility as Chairman of the individual directors takes place within the six month Company.
period before they are due to submit themselves to Audit Committee shareholders for re-election.
The audit committee is a formally constituted Relations with Shareholders committee of the Board with defined terms of The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM reference.
It meets twice yearly and among its and encourages questions and discussion on issues specific responsibilities are the review of the of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special Companys annual and half yearly results together arrangements have been established to allow Temple with associated documentation and the review of the Bar Savings Scheme investors to participate fully at internal and financial controls applicable to the annual general meetings.
At general meetings the management company.
Each of the non-executive TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 19 Corporate governance continued Chairman will announce the level of proxies lodged investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, on each resolution and the balance for and against, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The safeguarding of assets separate resolution will be proposed at the AGM in is entrusted to an independent reputable custodian respect of each substantially separate issue.
There is with whom the holdings are regularly reconciled.
also a separate resolution proposed in respect of the The effectiveness of the overall system of internal report and accounts.
In order to facilitate detailed control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
discussion of key issues, the notice of AGM is Such a system can provide only reasonable and not circulated to shareholders at least 20 working days absolute assurance against material misstatement or before the meeting.
The Board believes that there is a robust The Board largely delegates responsibility for framework of internal controls in place to meet the communication with shareholders to the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Board management company and through feedback receives reports from its advisers on internal control expects to be able to develop an understanding of matters and does not believe that there is scope or their views.
The current shareholding constituency of necessity for an internal audit function in addition to the Company is such that there are no major that employed by the manager.
This matter is subject shareholders.
All members of the Board are willing to to periodic review.
meet with shareholders at any time for the purpose of Based on the foregoing the Company has a discussing any significant matters in relation to the continuing process for identifying, evaluating and operation and prospects of the Company.
managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in place for the reporting period and to the date of this Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit report and is regularly reviewed by the Board in The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all accordance with the requirements of the Internal documents released by the Company, including the Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Annual Report, present a fair and accurate Code the Turnbull Guidance and the Combined assessment of the Companys position and Code.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has Socially Responsible Investment adequate resources to continue in operational The Board believes that it is its primary duty to act in existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the the best financial interests of the Company and its directors continue to adopt the going concern basis shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the in preparing the accounts.
ethical stance of investee companies on matters The directors are responsible for the Companys such as the environment or society as a whole, the system of internal control and for reviewing its ultimate objective is to deliver superior investment effectiveness.
In order to facilitate the control process returns for shareholders.
Accordingly, while the the Board has requested the Managers to confirm Board seeks to favour companies which pursue best annually that they have conducted the Companys practice in these areas this must not be to the affairs in compliance with the legal and regulatory detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
obligations which apply to the Company and to The Managers have been instructed to vote on report on the systems and procedures within behalf of the Company in accordance with Investec which are applicable to the management of recommendations put forward by the National the Companys affairs.
The Board meets on seven Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the scheduled occasions in each year and at each Managers wish to vote in a different way to the meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical recommendation of the NAPF this requires the information to enable it to monitor adequately the specific approval of the Board.
investment performance and status of the business.
The Board has also established a series of TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 20
