Corporate Governance Background been identified as the board considers that all the directors The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to have different qualities and areas of expertise on which disclose how they have applied the principles and complied they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns with the provisions of the Combined Code the Code.
Application of the Codes Principles When a director is appointed he or she receives an The board attaches great importance to the matters set out introductory briefing which is held by the investment in the Code and observes its principles.
It should be noted manager.
Changes in directors responsibilities are that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to advised as they arise.
day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the The board has not established a nominations committee directors are all non-executive.
Thus not all the provisions to make recommendations on the appointment of new of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
directors as it considers itself to be a small board.
The The Board and Committees board as a whole considers nominations made in The board currently consists of five non-executive accordance with an agreed procedure.
In accordance with directors, all of whom are independent of the Companys the AITC recommendation, a management engagement investment manager.
Their biographies, set out on committee, with defined terms of reference, has been page 21, demonstrate a breadth of investment, property established.
This consists of all the independent nonand professional experience.
executive directors and meets when necessary to review and discuss the terms of the appointment of the investment The board meets six times a year and deals with the manager.
There is also an audit committee consisting of all important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the the independent non-executive directors with defined setting and monitoring of investment strategy and the terms of reference.
This committee is responsible for review review of investment performance.
Between these of the annual accounts and interim report, terms of meetings there is regular contact with the investment appointment of the auditors together with their manager.
The investment manager takes decisions as to remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the purchase and sale of individual investments within the auditors.
It also meets with representatives of the certain limits prescribed by the board.
The investment investment manager and receives reports on the quality and manager also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely effectiveness of the accounting records and management manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Representatives of the investment manager attend each board meeting enabling directors to probe In accordance with the Articles of Association new further on matters of concern or seek clarification on directors stand for election at the first Annual General certain issues.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by Meeting following their appointment and then at every the full board have been defined and a procedure adopted third Annual General Meeting.
for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take Directors Remuneration independent professional advice at the expense of the The board as a whole considers directors remuneration Company.
The directors have access to the advice and and therefore has not appointed a separate remuneration services of the Corporate Company Secretary through its committee.
As the Company is an investment trust and all appointed representative who is responsible to the board directors are non-executive, the Company is not required for ensuring that board procedures are followed and that to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Directors fees are The Chairman of the Company is an independent nondetailed in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on executive director.
A senior non-executive director has not page 22: no fees are paid by the subsidiaries.
26 TR Property Investment Trust Corporate Governance continued Accountability and Audit The board, assisted by the manager, undertook a full review The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of of the Companys business risks and these are analysed the Accounts is set out on page 28 and the Report of and recorded in a risk map.
The board receives each quarter the Independent Auditors on page 29.
The board has from the manager a formal report which details the steps delegated contractually to external agencies, including taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are the manager, the management of the investment not directly the responsibility of the manager, and which portfolio, the custodial services which include the reports the details of any known internal control failures.
safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of company secretarial and administration requirements and internal control and risk management into the operations the registration services.
Each of these contracts was and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
entered into after full and proper consideration by the The Company does not have an internal audit function: it board of the quality and cost of the services offered, delegates to third parties most of its operations and does including the control systems in operation in so far as not directly employ any staff.
The board will continue to they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The board monitor its system of internal control in order to provide receives and considers regular reports from the manager assurance that it operates as intended and the directors and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the will review from time to time whether a function equivalent board as required.
In addition, the Chairman attends to an internal audit is needed.
meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by the manager: these meetings Exercise of Voting Powers provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the The Company has approved a corporate governance Chairman reports on them to the board.
voting policy which accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The manager has established an internal control framework to give reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of the Relations with Shareholders internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The The investment manager has a programme of meetings effectiveness of these controls is assessed by the managers with institutional shareholders and reports back to the compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
Internal Control The board is very conscious that the Annual General The board has established an ongoing process for Meeting is an event which private shareholders are identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks encouraged to attend and participate in.
The investment faced by the Company.
This process is subject to regular manager makes a presentation to the meeting and proxy review by the board and accords with the Internal Control votes are relayed.
The Company has adopted a nominee Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published share code which is set out on page 51. in September 1999 the Turnbull guidance.
The process was fully in place up to the date of approval of this annual The board has arranged for twenty working days notice of report and has operated throughout the year under review.
the Annual General Meeting to shareholders as required The board is responsible for the Companys system of under Code Provision C. 2.4. internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the However, such a system is designed to manage rather meeting and the special resolution is explained more fully than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the in the Explanation of the Notice of Meeting on page 48.
Companys business objectives and can only provide Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive reasonable and not absolute assurance against material issue.
