Corporate Governance Background extent to which borrowings may be used.
The application of The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose these and other restrictions, including those which govern the how they have applied the principles and complied with the Companys tax status as an investment trust, are reviewed provisions of the Combined Code the Code.
regularly at meetings of the Board.
The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Manager Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the London relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
A revised Combined Code on Corporate Representatives of the Manager attend each Board meeting, Governance was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in enabling the directors to seek clarification on specic issues or to July 2003 the revised Code which is effective for financial probe further on matters of concern.
Matters specically reserved years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
In addition, the for decision by the full Board have been dened and there is an AITC Code of Corporate Governance was issued by the agreed procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, Association of Investment Trust Companies in July 2003 the to take independent professional advice if necessary at the AITC Code.
The Board has reviewed, and is in the course of Companys expense.
The directors have access to the advice and applying, the additional requirements of both documents but services of the corporate company secretary, through its this statement refers specically to the Code in force during the appointed representative, who is responsible to the Board for year under review.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When a director is appointed he or she is offered an induction Application of the Principles of the Code seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are also The Company is committed to high standards of corporate provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the governance and the Board attaches importance to the matters set Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are investment trust company, most of the Companys day to day advised to the Board as they arise.
responsibilities are delegated to third parties and, during the year under review, the directors were all non-executive.
Thus not all the Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election provisions of the Code were directly applicable to the Company.
and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, new directors stand for Directors election at the first annual general meeting following their The Board currently consists of eight directors, the majority of appointment and every director stands for re-election at intervals whom are independent of the Companys Manager Henderson of not more than three years.
With the sole exception of the Chief Executive officer, the directors are all non-executive.
Their The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive director.
biographical details, set out on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of A senior non-executive director has not been identied as the investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience Board considers that all the directors have different qualities with an international perspective.
and areas of expertise on which they may lead when issues arise.
Accordingly, concerns can be conveyed to any one of them.
The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the Board Committees setting of parameters for and the monitoring of investment The Board has established audit, management engagement, strategy, together with the review of investment performance.
remuneration and nominations committees with dened terms The Board has set limits on the concentration of investments, on of reference and duties.
The membership of these committees is the use of derivatives, on the lending of securities and on the set out on page 2.
30 The Audit Committee is responsible for the review of the annual are made available to shareholders.
Representatives of the report and the interim report, the nature and scope of the Manager make a presentation to the meeting.
The Company has external audit and the findings therefrom, and the terms of adopted a nominee share code which is set out on page 52. appointment of the auditors, including their remuneration and the provision of any non-audit services by them.
It also meets Accountability and Audit with representatives of the Manager and receives reports on The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and accounts is set out on page 32.
The report of the auditors is set management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
The Board has delegated contractually to external agencies, including the Manager, the management of the The Management Engagement Committee is responsible for the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the regular review of the terms of the management contract with safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, company the Manager.
secretarial and administration requirements and the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and The Nominations Committee is responsible for making proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the recommendations on the appointment of new directors.
Each services offered, including the control systems in operation in director is invited to submit nominations and external advisers so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board may be used to identify potential candidates.
The nominations receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and list is considered by the Board as a whole in accordance with its ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as agreed procedures.
In addition, the Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the Manager: these meetings provide a forum to discuss industry remuneration of the Chief Executive officer, including matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
consideration of the performance bonuses to be paid to him.
The Manager has established an internal control framework to Directors Remuneration provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of the internal Because the Company is an investment trust company and all its controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the directors during the year were non-executive, the Company was internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance and not required to comply with the provisions of the Code in risk department on an ongoing basis.
respect of the remuneration of executive directors.
The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report Internal Control on pages 28 and 29.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Relations with Shareholders Company.
This process is subject to regular review by the Board The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on institutional shareholders and matters raised at these meetings the Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull are reported to the Board.
The process was fully in place throughout 2003 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
In addition the The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to Board has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys system of internal control, covering all the controls, Annual General Meeting is chaired by the Chairman of the Board including financial, operational and compliance controls and and attended by the Chairmen of all the Boards Committees.
This review took into account points raised Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution during the year in the Boards regular appraisal of specic areas 31
