Corporate Governance Celltech is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2003, the Group has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 1998 by the Hampel Committee and embodied in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority other than with respect to the notice period in Dr Fellners service contract which expired in April when his role changed from that of Chief Executive to Non-Executive Chairman.
Following the publication of the Higgs Review on Non-Executive directors and the Smith Report on Audit Committees, in July 2003 the Financial Reporting Council published a new Combined Code on Corporate Governance which replaces the existing version of the Combined Code and comes into effect for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the Revised Code.
The Board has implemented a review of its policies in the area of corporate governance and has already implemented a number of changes to Board procedures, including its induction programme for new Directors, and the structure and terms of reference of the various Committees.
The review is ongoing and the Board will take whatever steps it considers appropriate to implement the Revised Code.
It is intended that the Companys Corporate Governance Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 will refer to the Companys compliance with the Revised Code and include any additional disclosures it will be required to make.
Celltech maintains a good dialogue with shareholders and meetings are held with institutional shareholders throughout the year to discuss the progress of the Group.
Other means of communication include company presentations, press releases and interim and annual reports.
There is a company website www.
com which provides information on the Group.
Internal controls The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for Celltechs system of internal controls including financial control and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The key procedures that the Directors have established are designed to provide effective internal control within the Group and accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board has established a formal and continuous process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board receives regular reports from management at Board meetings.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on key operational and financial matters.
The Board considered the need for an internal audit function and concluded that in view of the control procedures in place in the Company, there was no requirement for a separate internal audit function during 2003.
However, the Board has further considered this matter and with effect from January 2004, Ernst & Young have been appointed to provide an internal audit function.
In connection with this years Annual Report the Audit Committee appointed Ernst & Young to carry out an internal risk assessment review.
Celltechs internal control procedures include the following: Risk management The organisational structure includes individual reporting lines through to the Board.
A structure of management committees and management teams meet regularly to debate and resolve key issues including social, environmental and ethical issues, details of which are discussed below.
Compliance controls Documented quality procedures are in place to ensure the maintenance of global regulatory compliance.
These are subject to periodic review to ensure current standards of quality compliance are maintained.
A quality group monitors compliance with Good Laboratory Practice GLP, Good Clinical Practice GCP and Good Manufacturing Practice GMP through the implementation of an internal compliance programme for in-house activities and an external auditing programme for suppliers of services and materials, Contract Research Organisations CROs and Contract Manufacturing Organisations CMOs.
The quality group also conducts annual regulatory compliance training initiatives.
A pharmacovigilance group monitors adverse events in support of the Groups marketed products and new product development programmes.
These are managed in accordance with formally documented procedures which comply with current regulatory requirements.
There is also a process for developing and maintaining risk management processes across the Group and a tactical plan in the US.
Where judged appropriate, Celltech collaborates with other large pharmaceutical companies regarding the development and marketing or comarketing of its product pipeline.
This approach serves to share the risk and also provides critical mass in areas which complement the Groups own infrastructure.
38 Celltech Annual Report 2003 Financial The key procedures that the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal financial control are as follows: Policies and procedures are in place, including the documentation of key systems and rules relating to the delegation of authorities, which allow management to monitor controls and restrict the unauthorised use of assets.
Experienced and suitably qualified staff take responsibility for key business functions.
Annual appraisal procedures are established which ensure that high standards of performance are maintained.
Budgets and long-term forecasts are prepared that allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities and risks and the progress towards financial objectives set for the year and the longer term.
Monthly management accounts are prepared promptly providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date information: significant variances from budget are investigated as appropriate.
Clear policies and authorisation procedures are in place for capital investment: major investment projects are subject to authorisation by the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the auditors and, in future, Ernst & Young acting as internal auditors, in order to provide reasonable assurance that control procedures are in place and are being followed.
Formal procedures have been established for instituting appropriate action to correct weaknesses identified from the above reports.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a review of the effectiveness of internal control as it operated during the year.
Corporate Social Responsibility Celltech continues to recognise the importance of corporate governance in building a sustainable business.
Through our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR approach, defined by our CSR Committee, Celltech is committed to integrating Social, Ethical and Health, Safety and Environment HS&E considerations into daily operations, and to engaging with stakeholders to ensure these considerations reflect current best practice.
Celltech is focused on the transparent reporting of progress against its CSR objectives to the broad range of stakeholders interested in different elements of its CSR activities.
These stakeholders include employees, shareholders, business partners, suppliers, and the local and scientific communities.
In 2003 Celltech published its first CSR report, available at www.
com or in hard copy from the Investor Relations department.
This report, based on Celltechs CSR Policy, aims to demonstrate the integration of sustainable business considerations into Celltechs operations.
The CSR Policy operates alongside Celltechs management systems and ensures that: as a minimum, the Group meets existing standards and legislation: health, safety and environment issues remain critical to business operations: ethical issues are dealt with in accordance with the Companys Code of Conduct and are managed transparently, in particular in the approach to marketing and clinical trials: employees remain a priority and individual talent is valued and developed: business practices are managed transparently and designed to deliver value to stakeholders: Celltech makes a positive contribution to both the local and scientific communities: Group operations are managed in order to minimise social and environmental impact: Celltech builds a culture in which all employees are attuned to CSR risks and opportunities, by way of education and communication: the Board and the CSR Committee take regular account of the significance of Social, Ethical and HS&E matters: the Board and the CSR Committee identify and assess the significant risks to the Companys short and long-term value arising from social, environmental and ethical matters, and that adequate information is received to make that assessment: The Group has nominated a CSR Committee, with Board representation from Peter Allen, Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer, Dr Melanie Lee, R&D Director and Ingelise Saunders, Global Commercial Director.
The CSR Committee, working with the CSR team, reviews social, environmental and ethical matters and updates the Board as appropriate.
Celltech Annual Report 2003 39 Corporate Governance continued Celltech management has, within the generally accepted principles of sustainability, identified three key areas that present significant Social, Ethical and HS&E risks and opportunities that may significantly affect Celltechs short and long-term value: Social focusing on people development, and managing the business in an ethical fashion in line with Company policies.
Ethical investing in research and development activities to ensure a sustainable, principled economic model and fair returns for shareholders.
HS&E ensuring the health and welfare of people, minimising utility usage and waste and working towards a statement of intent for emissions.
Data used to monitor Celltechs progress against its CSR objectives is collated using existing management systems as part of general business practice.
More details on the structure of these systems can be found in Celltechs CSR report.
Celltech continually works with the Board, Executive Committee and project leaders to identify and manage risk in each area of the business, considering pharmaceutical, financial and employee health and safety risk prevention as priorities.
Celltech also has an ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders to ensure that the scope and reporting of its CSR programme is relevant and meets their needs, and takes account of future potential changes in CSR reporting required by stakeholders or legislation.
Celltechs specific areas of CSR focus for this year are summarised below.
Social Drug development, manufacturing and marketing are highly regulated areas and must be managed to the highest ethical standards.
Celltechs ethos is to create an open and lively culture in which employees follow ethical principles and share information to enable everyone to understand their part in achieving Celltechs objectives.
Developing talent The welfare and development of employees remain a priority and Celltech continues to focus on developing talent, for example: Each Celltech site maintains a version of the Group Employee Manual, modified to reflect local employment requirements, designed with the intention of attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining key people.
Over the last year, Celltech has reviewed role descriptions with a view to standardising the way similar roles are performed across the Group.
Training remains a key area of focus for Celltech, and training courses, coaching and team alignment sessions provide opportunities to develop skills.
A sales force effectiveness initiative has been launched with the establishment of a global team dedicated to ensuring Celltech has the right structures and processes for the retention and reward of sales personnel and recognition of the sales forces efforts.
Communication A continuous two-way dialogue between employees and management is critical to business operations: Each site holds regular site briefings, highlighting business-critical activities and providing an opportunity to discuss issues with senior management.
Company news, including CSR news and information, is updated regularly on the Celltech intranet and included in the quarterly Group in-house magazine.
An increasing number of employees have access to the intranet.
Where employees do not have immediate access, company news is communicated through memos and videos.
Consultation and feedback Feedback is critical in developing two-way dialogue.
Employee feedback is encouraged via line management and staff councils.
An Employee Survey is being introduced across Celltech following a pilot survey last September with the commercial organisation.
As a result of the survey each commercial department is responding to the results through the implementation of a local action plan.
Ethical Celltechs business activities focus on the discovery and development of treatments for serious disease areas and the provision of fair returns for shareholders.
Key activities include: 40 Celltech Annual Report 2003 A Code of Ethics has been developed and is available on the Companys web site.
This Code, along with the Companys internal Code of Conduct sets out the way business should be conducted.
Ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders including shareholders, business partners and suppliers: External risk identification audits and continuous internal risk management programmes: Investment in new technology and IT security upgrades: Maintenance of a robust, flexible patenting strategy to protect and exploit the Companys intellectual property: and Management of the Groups resources in a prudent fashion to ensure adequate investment in R&D and commercialisation activities.
Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Celltech continues to develop its HS&E strategy to build a positive culture of safe working and protection of the environment.
Celltech has an HS&E Steering Committee, which comprises heads of key functions, and the two Directors responsible for HS&E, Dr Melanie Lee, Celltechs R&D Director, and Ingelise Saunders, Global Commercial Director.
Recent key initiatives are described below.
Celltech has reviewed and updated its HS&E strategy to take account of changes in the internal and external environment, which are expected over the next five years.
Celltech plans to publish extracts from this strategy in the next update of the CSR Report.
Auditing plays a key part in the Companys assurance programme.
Celltech has carried out an evaluation of the timing and reporting of internal audits and has published guidance on its intranet.
A status report is in preparation and will be submitted to the Board when complete.
Celltech has also developed protocols for carrying out audits of third party manufacturers.
Celltech has improved its measures for dealing with information on handling and shipping hazardous substances, both for internal and external customers.
R&D and manufacturing sites are working on a programme to develop their environmental aspects and impacts registers.
Two major group-wide training packages have been reviewed and refreshed.
Health and safety training has been provided for our sales representatives, as well as training for managers to assist them in ensuring a safer environment for employees.
Celltech continues to develop its programme for managing occupational road risk for employees who drive in the course of their work.
Indicators of HS&E performance have been collected for 2003 and these figures will be published during the year.
Monitoring and Evaluation Continuous evaluation of Celltechs CSR activity is critical to progressing the programme and identifying areas for improvement.
Measurement tools are being implemented, including regular audits of the social and ethical elements of the programme in addition to the established HS&E monitoring and auditing procedures.
An internal audit into key Social, Ethical and HS&E areas of Celltechs CSR reporting will be carried out in 2004.
More information about the CSR programme and performance can be found on www.
As mentioned in the Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee of the Board has appointed Deloitte & Touche to advise the Committee on its review of Group remuneration policy during 2004.
As part of this review, measurement of performance against Social, Ethical and HS&E matters will be considered.
Board of Directors As at 31 December 2003 the Board of Directors comprised four Executive Directors and eight Non-Executive Directors, including a Non-Executive Chairman.
Mr Hugh Collum and Mr John Baker were senior independent Non-Executive Directors until July and May 2003 respectively when they retired.
Mr Philip Rogerson was designated the senior independent Non-Executive Director following the retirement of Mr Collum in July.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, Sir Tom Blundell, Mr Newmarch, Professor Edwards, Dr Jaffe, Dr Read, Mr Rogerson and Mr Cadbury are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dr Read and Dr Fellner both serve on the Board of Vernalis plc, as a result of the merger of Vernalis Group plc with British Biotech plc.
Dr Fellner was Chairman of British Biotech and Dr Read was a Director of Vernalis when the two companies merged in September 2003.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Information on the Directors re-election election procedure can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 32.
Details of the Directors who will be seeking election this year can be found in the Circular accompanying the Report and Accounts.
The Board provides effective leadership and manages overall control of the Groups affairs through the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
This includes approval of the annual budget and business plan, Celltech Annual Report 2003 41 Corporate Governance continued major capital expenditure, significant acquisitions and disposals, and approval of financial statements.
The Board has adopted a procedure whereby Directors may, in pursuit of their duties, take independent legal advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There are currently eight scheduled Board meetings each year and other meetings are held as necessary.
In advance of Board meetings the Directors are furnished with the appropriate information on the current status of the Companys business.
In accordance with the requirements of the Revised Code the Board intends to implement during the forthcoming year a formal system of evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees and Directors.
Chairman Dr Fellner became Non-Executive Chairman in April 2003 and was re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in May 2003.
The announcement regarding the appointment of Dr Fellner as Chairman was made prior to the publication of the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors in January 2003.
The rationale for Dr Fellners appointment as Chairman was reviewed with the Association of British Insurers whilst reviewing Dr Andos appointment.
In view of the Higgs Report and the Revised Code the Non-Executive Directors other than Mr Jackson who was the current Chairman reviewed and confirmed the recommendation for Dr Fellners appointment, noting that: a At this important stage in the development of the Company, Dr Fellner brought a unique experience, knowledge and background of the Company.
The continuity he would provide would be of value to both the Board and shareholders particularly over the next few years.
b The new Chief Executive was recruited in full knowledge of the plans for the appointment of Dr Fellner as Chairman.
This had been a key influencing factor in the recruitment to the position of Chief Executive of a senior highly qualified and experienced executive in the pharmaceutical industry.
Board Committees The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
In addition the Board established a Science and Technology Committee during the year.
In response to the recommendations made in the Higgs Report and the subsequent requirements introduced in the Revised Code the composition of the various Committees of the Board were reviewed during 2003.
The full terms of reference of all the Committees are published on the Companys website.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee has operated throughout the year and its members at the beginning of the year were Mr Newmarch, Professor Edwards and Dr Read.
In addition, in May 2003 Mr Rogerson was appointed a member of the Committee.
It is chaired by Mr Newmarch.
The Committee met three times during the year and reported its conclusions to the full Board.
The responsibilities of the Committee include a critical review of the annual and interim financial statements prior to their submission to the Board for approval, the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal control systems and business risk analysis.
The external Auditor attends its meetings and has the opportunity for private discussions with the Committee.
The Board notes the publication in January 2003 of the Smith Report and continues to give full consideration to this Report.
The members of the Committee who held office at the year-end and at the date of this report are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include the following responsibilities: To review the annual financial statements and interim and preliminary announcements before their submission to the Board for approval.
To determine whether the accounting policies of the Company are in accordance with the law and accounting standards.
To review the scope and planning of the external audit.
To review from time to time the cost effectiveness of the audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
To monitor the fees paid to the auditor and where the auditor supplies a substantial volume of non-audit services to the Company, to keep the nature and extent of such services under review, seeking to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
To review the findings of the external auditor and the findings of internal investigations and managements response.
To review management procedures to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of accounting and internal control.
To monitor and assess the need for an internal audit function.
42 Celltech Annual Report 2003 To make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
To review any profit forecasts or working capital statements published in any bid document or listing particulars.
To review the performance of the external auditor.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has operated throughout the year.
During the year Mr Jackson and Mr Collum retired and Mr Cadbury, Dr Read and Mr Rogerson were appointed to the Committee.
Its current members are Dr Read, Mr Rogerson, Mr Cadbury and Dr Jaffe.
The Committee, which is chaired by Dr Read, meets not less than twice a year.
It seeks independent advice, where appropriate, for the purpose of determining all aspects of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives, including the award of share options, the terms of their service agreements, and recommending to the Board the fees paid to the Chairman.
The members of the Committee do not participate in determining or recommending their own remuneration or fees.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the joint recommendation of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee include the following responsibilities: To ensure that senior remuneration policies and practice facilitate the employment and motivation of top quality personnel.
To receive evidence on internal and external trends in remuneration, options and other benefits.
To commission necessary surveys aimed at establishing market position or exploring particular aspects of remuneration.
To seek such information and advice as may be required in order to fulfil its obligations.
To monitor Directors benefits, including pensions, consider any significant developments and make recommendations as appropriate.
Generally to ensure that senior remuneration administration operates on a best practice basis.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee meets as appropriate.
During the year Mr Jackson, Mr Collum and Mr Baker retired from the Board and Mr Cadbury, Sir Tom Blundell, Professor Edwards and Dr Ando were appointed to the Committee.
Current members are Mr Cadbury, Sir Tom Blundell, Prof Edwards, Dr Fellner and Dr Ando.
The Committee, which is chaired by Mr Cadbury, met twice during the year.
In recruiting for a new Chief Executive the Committee appointed the external consultants Spencer Stewart.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee include the following responsibilities: Make recommendations to the Board on its structure, size, composition and balance.
Be responsible for nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors, for both Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
Give full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work.
Have the power to employ the services of such advisers as it deems necessary to fulfil its responsibilities.
Science and Technology Committee A Science and Technology Committee meets as appropriate.
Sir Tom Blundell chairs the Committee and the other members are Dr Fellner, Dr Ando, Dr Lee, Professor Edwards and Dr Jaffe.
The terms of reference of the Science and Technology Committee include the following responsibilities: The Committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on the Companys R&D strategy.
In fulfilling this responsibility, the Committee shall: Review and approve annually the Companys R&D strategy for presentation to and recommendation for adoption by the Board.
Review annually key strategic objectives for R&D and consider any major variances from previous reviews.
Review major programmes within R&D and monitor their progress.
Celltech Annual Report 2003 43 Corporate Governance continued Receive and evaluate annually a report from the Chairman of Celltechs Science Advisory Board.
Assess senior management resources and capabilities for R&D and advise on succession planning.
Consider proposals for accessing external advice and support where necessary to strengthen or complement in-house R&D skills.
Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statements and the Operational and Financial Reviews on pages 1 to 23 include a detailed review of the business and future developments.
A regular dialogue is maintained with institutional shareholders including presentations after the announcement of the preliminary results at the year-end and half-year.
Celltechs website is regularly updated with information on the Groups activities.
The AGM offers the Board the opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors and their participation is welcomed.
The Chairmen of each of the Committees described above will ordinarily be available at the AGM to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 27 May 2004 can be found in the Circular, which accompanies this report.
Going concern The Directors consider that the funds available to the Group are sufficient for its operations for the foreseeable future and have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
