Directors report continued The groups business principles and policies set out Auditors standards and expectations of behaviour of its  LLP have expressed their employees in conducting business in an ethical way.
willingness to be reappointed as auditors of the company.
Centrica supports the principles of the UN Global Upon the recommendation of the audit committee, a Compact on human rights and labour standards.
resolution to reappoint them as the companys auditors The group encourages its business partners and and authorise the directors to determine their remuneration suppliers to respect and follow this approach.
will be proposed at the AGM.
Employees are regularly updated on performance against Authority to purchase shares group strategy.
There are regular employee surveys, action The directors were authorised at the 2003 AGM to planning forums and dialogue with representatives of purchase the companys own shares, within certain limits recognised trade unions.
Employees views are also and as permitted by the articles of association.
Although sought using a network of local consultative bodies.
no such purchases have been made to date under this Further details of the groups employment policies authority, the directors will seek to renew this authority at and employee communications can be found on the 2004 AGM.
Corporate governance Employee share schemes The group is committed to high standards of corporate The group encourages employee share ownership by governance.
During the year, the board has reviewed its operating tax authority approved share schemes open to governance arrangements in the light of the new all eligible employees, including executive directors.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the new Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees the Smith Each year, sharesave schemes in the UK and Ireland Guidance and has made changes as necessary and enable eligible employees to acquire shares in the appropriate.
As the new Code took effect in respect of company at the end of a three or five year saving period.
accounting periods commencing on or after 1 November A total of 17,448 employees participate in the schemes.
2003, this report has been prepared on the basis of the previous Combined Code on Corporate Governance The company also operates a share incentive plan, which the Code.
Some additional disclosures have been made enables eligible UK employees to buy Centrica shares, as a transition towards compliance with the new Code.
subject to monthly limits, out of pre-tax pay.
In addition, Throughout the year, the company fully complied with the the company awards one free matching share for every provisions of the Code and applied its principles as follows: two shares an employee buys, subject to a monthly limit of 20 matching shares.
A total of 6,398 employees The board participate in the plan.
An effective board of directors leads and controls the group.
The board, which meets at least 10 times a year, has Corporate responsibility a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
The board Information relating to the groups impact on society, the is responsible for determination of strategy and major economy and the wider environment is given on pages 18 policies: review of management performance: and to 23.
The system of internal control, described on page 28, approval of the annual operating plan, the financial covers significant risks associated with social, environment statements, major projects and corporate governance.
and health and safety matters.
One of its meetings each year is substantially devoted to the development of strategy.
Charitable and political donations An outline of the groups involvement in the community Overall attendance during 2003 was 92% for the board, appears on pages 22 to 23.
Charitable donations in the UK 88% for the audit committee, 90% for the remuneration during the year amounted to 5.3 million 2002: 4.7 million.
committee and 100% for the nominations committee.
In line with group policy, no donations were made for Non-attendance was due mainly to previously arranged political purposes.
commitments of the newly appointed directors.
Share capital Comprehensive briefing papers including management The companys authorised and issued share capital as accounts are circulated to each director one week prior to at 31 December 2003, together with details of shares board meetings.
A procedure is in place for directors to issued during the year, is set out in note 19 on page 56. obtain independent professional advice in respect of their duties.
They also have access to the advice and services of Material shareholdings the company secretary.
At 9 February 2004, the following material shareholdings were recorded in the register maintained in accordance The names of the directors and their details including with the Companies Act 1985: committee memberships, appear on page 24.
All of the nonexecutive directors, including the chairman, are members of Fidelity 179,465,013 4.21% the audit and remuneration committees as the board believes Legal & General Group 155,266,781 3.64% that each of them adds value to the business of those meetings.
Barclays 138,903,214 3.26% This membership structure gives the non-executive directors 26 Centrica plc report 2003 detailed insight into the nature of the matters being discussed, establish and oversee the companys relationship brings continuity to membership and avoids undue reliance with the external auditors, including the monitoring on particular individuals.
Throughout the year, the chairman of their independence.
and the other non-executive directors were independent of management and the senior independent director was Note 3 v to the financial statements on page 47 sets out Patricia Mann.
In November, the board considered the the groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all independence of the non-executive directors other than major consultancies and advisory projects.
The board the chairman against the criteria in the new Code and has approved policies that restrict the types of non-audit determined that each was independent.
work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and restrict the employment by the group of former The non-executive directors, including the chairman, employees of the external audit firms.
The award of meet independently of management on a regular basis.
non-audit work within categories that the external auditors are permitted to carry out under the board All directors joining the board are required to submit approved policies is subject to pre-clearance by the themselves for election at the AGM following their audit committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
Thereafter, they are subject to re-election All non-audit assignments awarded to the external every third year.
The non-executive directors are initially auditors are reported to the audit committee on a appointed for a three year term and, subject to review and quarterly basis, along with a full breakdown of re-election, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
non-audit fees incurred during the year.
The directors receive ongoing training including an As a matter of best practice and in accordance with induction programme tailored to meet the needs of the auditing standard 610, the external auditors have held individual.
The directors also receive regular updates on discussions with the audit committee on the subject of changes and developments to the business, legislative audit independence and have confirmed their and regulatory environments.
The board has delegated authority to a number of Remuneration committee committees to deal with specific aspects of the The remuneration committee, which met six times management and control of the group.
These committees during 2003, consists of the chairman and independent have specific terms of reference and meet on a regular non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Patricia Mann.
The minutes of the meetings of these committees The role of this committee and details of how the company are made available to all the directors on a timely basis.
applies the principles of the Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out on pages 29 to 36.
Executive committee The executive committee comprises the executive Nominations committee directors and the general counsel and company secretary.
The nominations committee consists of Sir Roy Gardner, It is chaired by Sir Roy Gardner.
It meets weekly and Patricia Mann and Sir Michael Perry, who chairs it.
oversees the management of the group and is the decision It makes recommendations to the board for the making body for those matters not reserved to the board appointment of replacement or additional directors.
and within the limits set out in the groups delegated At its three meetings during the year it considered the authority and expenditure control policies.
succession to Sir Michael Perry as chairman of the company and, accordingly, Patricia Mann chaired There are four sub-committees of the executive the second and third of these meetings.
Having taken committee: the group risk management committee: advice from executive recruitment agents and having the group financial risk management committee: the drawn up a list of required attributes, members of the corporate responsibility committee: and the health, committee gave careful consideration to a number of safety and environment committee.
The membership individuals, both external candidates and existing of these committees is drawn from senior management.
The committee concluded that Roger Carr was the most appropriate Audit committee person to succeed Sir Michael Perry as chairman of the The audit committee, which meets four times a year, company, having sought and received assurance that consists of the chairman and independent non-executive he had sufficient time available to devote to the position, directors.
It was chaired throughout the year by Roger Carr.
and recommended his appointment to the board.
The audit committee, which reports its findings to the The nominations committee is also responsible for board, is authorised to: succession planning and board evaluation.
It is intended monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial that a formal evaluation of the performance of the board, statements, including a review of significant financial assisted by external consultants, will be undertaken reporting judgements contained in them: during 2004. review the companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: Customer service committee monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys This committee determines and monitors customer internal audit function: and service targets, as key drivers of the long term success Centrica plc report 2003 27 Directors report continued of the group.
It was chaired on an interim basis by Assurance Mark Clare between May 2002 and January 2003.
The business assurance function undertakes internal Helen Alexander succeeded Mark Clare as chairman audit reviews according to a plan approved by the audit of this committee with effect from February 2003. committee.
The results of their work are reported to the audit committee on a quarterly basis.
Relations with shareholders The company has a programme of communication with The boards review of the system of internal control its shareholders.
As well as share price information, The board of directors, with the advice of the audit news releases and the annual report, the Centrica committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the website includes speeches from the AGM, presentations internal control system operated as described above to the investment community and a section for throughout the period from 1 January 2003 to the date shareholder services.
of this report and is satisfied that the group complies with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The board believes that the AGM presents an important opportunity for dialogue with private shareholders, Going concern many of whom are also customers.
At the AGM, the After making enquiries, the board has a reasonable chairman and the chief executive present a review of the expectation that the company has adequate resources businesses of the group.
Representatives from across the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable group are available to answer questions both before and future.
For this reason, we continue to adopt the going after the meeting.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements, which are shown on pages 38 to 77.
All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes at the AGM by proxy, by post or via the internet.
Shareholders can register to receive all their communications online, This directors report has been approved by the board benefiting both themselves and the company.
and signed on its behalf by Centrica also holds regular meetings with its major shareholders.
The chairman attends the meeting at which the preliminary results are presented to major investors and analysts.
Formal reports of investor feedback are presented to the board at least twice a year.
Grant Dawson Internal control General Counsel and Company Secretary The board of directors is responsible for the groups system 12 February 2004 of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Registered office: and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, Millstream assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Maidenhead Road Windsor Identification, assessment and management of risks Berkshire SL4 5GD The company places great importance on internal Company registered in England and Wales No.
A risk aware and control conscious environment is encouraged throughout the group.
The board, either directly or through its committees, sets objectives, performance targets and policies for management of key risks facing the group.
These include strategic planning, acquisitions, political and regulatory, investments, expenditure control, treasury, environment, health and safety, trading and customer service.
Across the group, each business has a risk management committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the management of operational risks.
In addition, the group risk management committee considers the risks that might affect the company at group level.
The processes of newly acquired companies are integrated with those of the group.
Centrica Storage operates to the same standards of internal control and risk management as the rest of the group: however, as a result of undertakings given to the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, a high level of separation is maintained between the management of Centrica Storage and that of the rest of the group.
