AstraZeneca Annual Report and Audit Committees Report 48 Form 20-F Information 2003 Audit Committees Directors Report continued Report Summary Report.
More detailed information compliance with English law and the Listing The members of the Audit Committee are about the Companys approach to this area Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In Karl von der Heyden Chairman of the of its business can be found on its website: particular, the Companys Disclosure Committee, John Buchanan, Jane Henney, astrazeneca.
Committee meets to ensure that the Dame Bridget Ogilvie and Marcus Company does not purchase its own shares Wallenberg.
They are all Non-Executive It is not Company policy formally to comply during prohibited periods.
With the exception of Mr with the Confederation of British Industrys 29 April 2004, the Company will seek a Wallenberg for the reasons explained code of practice on the prompt payment of renewal of its current permission from above, the Board considers them all to be suppliers.
It is, however, Company policy to shareholders to purchase its own shares.
independent under the UKs revised agree appropriate payment terms with all Combined Code.
suppliers when agreeing the terms of each Political donations transaction, to ensure that those suppliers Under the UKs Political Parties, Elections The Board remains satisfied that various are made aware of the terms of payment and Referendums Act 2000, shareholder members of the Audit Committee have and, subject to their compliance, abide authority is required for political donations to recent and relevant financial experience.
At by the terms of payment.
The total amount be made or political expenditure to be its meeting in December 2003, the Board of money owed by the Companys incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries determined that Mr von der Heyden and Dr subsidiaries to trade creditors at the in the European Union.
Neither the Buchanan are audit committee financial balance sheet date was equivalent to 75 Company nor its subsidiaries made any experts for the purposes of the US days average purchases.
No equivalent donations or incurred any expenditure in Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. disclosure is provided in respect of the 2003 in the European Union in respect of Company as it has no external creditors.
which shareholder authority or disclosure in During the year, the remit of the Audit this Directors Report is required under the Committee was reviewed and revised.
The Purchase of own shares Act.
Neither the Company nor its amended version was approved by the The Companys stated distribution policy subsidiaries intend to make any such Board in December 2003.
The revisions did contains both a regular dividend cash flow donations or incur any such expenditure in not introduce fundamental changes to the and a share re-purchase component to give the European Union in the foreseeable remit but rather clarified and set out more the Company more flexibility in managing its future.
However, the Act defines political fully the existing responsibilities of the Audit capital structure over time.
In August 1999, organisation widely and, for example, Committee.
The new core remit of the Audit the Company announced a $2 billion share interest groups or lobbying organisations Committee is to review and report to the re-purchase programme to be completed concerned with the review of government Board on: by the end of 2002.
This programme was policy or law reform may be caught by the completed ahead of schedule in the definition.
the scope of and plans for audits of the second quarter of 2002.
In January 2002, Company by the external auditor and the Company announced an additional To enable the Company to continue to the internal audit function: $2 billion re-purchase programme which support such organisations without was completed on schedule by the end of inadvertently breaching the Act, a resolution the implementation of the external and 2003. will, in the same way as last year, be internal audit plans and the handling of proposed at the AGM on 29 April 2004 any material issues arising from those During 2003, the Company purchased authorising the Company to make audits: 27.2 million of its own Ordinary Shares donations or incur expenditure in the with a nominal value of $0.25 each for an European Union up to an aggregate limit of the Companys overall framework for aggregate cost of $1,154 million.
internal control over financial reporting the purchase of these shares, they were all and its financial reporting processes: cancelled as required by applicable English In 2003, AstraZenecas US legal entities law.
This number of shares represents 1.6% made contributions amounting in aggregate the Companys overall framework for of the Companys total issued share capital to $258,000 2002 $275,000 to state other internal controls: at 31 December 2003. political party committees and to campaign committees of various state candidates the Companys overall framework for Since the beginning of the re-purchase affiliated with the major parties.
All risk management with particular programme in 1999, the Company has contributions were made only where emphasis on financial risks: purchased for cancellation in total allowed by state law.
American nationals 92.8 million of its own Ordinary Shares exercised decision-making over the the accounting policies and practices of with a nominal value of $0.25 each for an contributions and the funds were not the Company: and aggregate cost of $3,959 million.
This provided or reimbursed by any non-US number of shares represents 5.5% of the corporation.
the annual and quarterly financial Companys total issued share capital at reporting carried out by the Company.
On behalf of the Board G H R Musker The Company continues to maintain robust Group Secretary and Solicitor controls in respect of all aspects of the 29 January 2004 share re-purchase programme to ensure AstraZeneca Annual Report and Audit Committees Report Form 20-F Information 2003 49 The Audit Committee is also charged with to prior engagements.
At the invitation of regarding accounting, internal promptly bringing to the attention of the the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the accounting controls or auditing matters Board: Board, a Non-Executive Director, attended and for the confidential, anonymous all of its meetings in 2003. submission by employees of concerns any significant concerns of the external During the year, in line with its normal regarding questionable accounting or auditor about the conduct, results or practice, the Audit Committee also held a auditing matters: overall outcome of the annual audit of number of private meetings, without the Company: management present, with both the a review of the Companys US sales and Companys Chief Internal Auditor and the marketing compliance programme, any significant concerns of the Chief lead partner from the Companys external including the five year Corporate Internal Auditor about the conduct, audit firm.
The purpose of these meetings Integrity Agreement between the results or outcome of internal audits: was to facilitate free and open discussions Company and the Office of Inspector between the Audit Committee members General for the US Department of any matters which may significantly and the Chief Internal Auditor and the Health and Human Services signed in affect or impair the independence of the external lead audit partner, independent of 2003: external auditor: the main sessions of the Audit Committee attended by the Chief Financial Officer and proposals from the internal audit any significant deficiencies or material the Group Financial Controller.
function and the external auditor about weaknesses in the design or operation their audit programmes for 2003: of the Companys internal control over During 2003, the business considered and financial reporting: discussed by the Audit Committee a review at the beginning of 2003 of the included: performance of the external auditor any significant deficiencies or material which resulted in the Audit Committee weaknesses in the design or operation the financial disclosures contained in unanimously recommending that a of the Companys other internal controls the Companys annual and quarterly resolution for the re-appointment of and any significant breaches of those reports to shareholders and other KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys internal controls: and interested parties: external auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in April 2003: any serious issues of non-compliance.
various accounting matters, including the Companys critical accounting the succession plans for the rotation of The Audit Committee also oversees the policies, raised by management and the the global lead audit partner of the establishment, implementation and external auditor in the context of the external auditor: in July 2003, the Audit maintenance of the Code of Conduct and financial disclosures: Committee met and had discussions establishes procedures for the receipt and with a number of succession handling of complaints concerning reports from management on the candidates proposed by the external accounting or audit matters: appoints and Companys risk profile and the auditor: the new lead audit partner agrees the compensation for the external assessment and management of risk: selected following those discussions auditor subject, in each case, to the meets with the full approval of the Audit approval of the Companys shareholders in reports from management, the internal Committee and will succeed the current general meeting and, if necessary, audit function and the external auditor lead audit partner in April 2004: recommends to the Board that a resolution on the effectiveness of the Companys be proposed at a general meeting of the system of internal controls and, in a report from the Companys Treasury Company authorising the removal of the particular, internal financial controls: function about its operations and external auditor: and reviews and approves these included a review and discussion approach to risk management: the appointment and any dismissal of the of the results of the Companys letter of Chief Internal Auditor.
assurance process for 2003 and the pre-approval of all audit services reviews of quarterly activity reports from and permitted non-audit services The full revised remit of the Audit Committee the internal audit function and the status undertaken by the external auditor: in is available on the Companys website: of follow-up actions with management: April 2003, the Audit Committee astrazeneca.
approved certain pre-approval policies the review of and revisions to the and procedures for three categories of As a result of a significantly increased AstraZeneca Code of Conduct work audit services, audit-related workload, due mainly to the implementation described in more detail in the services and tax services and a of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Directors Report : the Audit Committee standing agenda item at Audit Audit Committee met seven times in 2003 took a particular interest in the updated Committee meetings now covers the compared to four meetings in 2002.
It is procedures for raising integrity operation of these procedures: currently scheduled to meet seven times in concerns and the confidential helpline 2004.
Each meeting of the Audit Committee for employees worldwide: in July 2003, the amount of audit and non-audit fees in 2003 was attended by all five of its the Audit Committee approved of the external auditor: the Audit members except that Dr Buchanan was procedures for the handling of Committee was satisfied throughout the unable to attend the January meetings due complaints received by the Company year that the objectivity and
