Corporate governance BTs policy is to achieve best practice in our standards either the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
He will also of business integrity for all our operations.
This attend, at his discretion and in consultation with includes a commitment to maintaining the highest the Chairman and the Chief Executive, other meetings standards of corporate governance throughout with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and the group.
the non-executive directors hold regular dinners During the year there have been recommendations at which they discuss matters without the presence on UK corporate governance by Derek Higgs and of the executive directors.
Sir Robert Smith, and hence proposed changes to Sir Anthony Greener chairs the Audit and the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Heis also a member This section of the annual report describes how BT of the Nominating Committee.
Maarten van den Bergh has applied the Code and where it stands on some sits on all three committees.
Both directors bring great of the key proposed changes resulting from the above breadth of relevant experience to these committees, recommendations.
The directors consider that BT has, whose total memberships are six, five and four throughout the year, complied with the provisions directors, respectively.
Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three years.
At the end of that period the appointment The Board may be continued by mutual agreement, subject The Board meets every month, except in August.
normally to three months termination notice from Additionally, it meets on an ad hoc basis to consider either BT or the director.
The longest serving nonmatters which are time critical.
The Board met 14 executive director has been in ofce for nearly three times during the 2003 financial year.
The Boards principal focus is the overall strategic All directors are required by the companys articles direction, development and control of the group.
In of association to be elected by shareholders at the first support of this focus the Board approves the groups AGM after their appointment, if appointed by strategic plans, annual budget, capital expenditure the Board.
A director must subsequently retire by and investments budgets, larger capital expenditure rotation at an AGM if he or she was elected or last proposals and the groups overall system of internal re-elected at or before the AGM in the third year before controls, governance and compliance authorities and it the year in question.
The director may seek re-election.
has oversight and control of the groups operating and The Chairman and executive directors have service financial performance.
These responsibilities are set agreements, which are approved by the Remuneration out in a formal statement of the Boards role which, Committee.
Information about the periods of these together with the powers of the Operating Committee contracts is in the Report on directors remuneration and Management Council and the authorities delegated on page 63. to individual members of the Operating Committee, are The Board has a procedure for directors, in made available to everyone in the group on the groups furtherance of their duties, to take independent intranet site.
professional advice if necessary, at the companys The Board, which operates as a single team, is expense.
In addition, all directors have access to currently made up of the part-time Chairman, five the advice and services of the Secretary, executive directors and seven independent nonthe appointment and removal of whom is a matter for executive directors.
It is BTs policy that the board will the whole Board.
He advises the Board on appropriate comprise a majority of independent non-executive procedures for the management of its meetings and directors.
The desired combination of experience, skills duties and the meetings of the companys principal and other attributes that the non-executive directors as committees, as well as the implementation a whole are to bring to the Board is agreed and of corporate governance and compliance within regularly reviewed by the Nominating Committee.
prole is used by the Committee to assess On appointment, the directors take part in an the suitability as non-executive directors of candidates induction programme when they receive information put forward by the directors and outside consultants about BT, the role of the Board and the matters before the Committee meets short-listed candidates.
reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and Between them, the current non-executive directors membership of the principal Board and management bring experience and independent judgement, gained committees, and the powers delegated to those at the most senior levels, of international business committees, the companys corporate governance operations and strategy, marketing, technology, practices and procedures, including the powers communications and political and international affairs.
reserved to the groups most senior executives, and The non-executive directors provide a strong the latest financial information about the group.
independent element on the Board.
Sir Anthony This is supplemented by visits to key BT locations and Greener, the Deputy Chairman, is the senior meetings with members of the Operating Committee independent director.
In his capacity as the chairman and other key senior executives.
Throughout their of the Remuneration Committee, he meets with BTs period in ofce the directors are continually updated major institutional shareholders.
The Deputy Chairman on BTs business, the competitive and regulatory will also continue to be available to discuss matters environments in which it operates, corporate social with institutional shareholders where it would be responsibility matters and other changes affecting BT inappropriate for those discussions to take place with and the communications industry as a whole, by BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 53 Corporate governance written briengs and meetings with senior BT composition of the Board and to recommend any executives.
Directors are also advised on appointment proposed changes to the Board.
It keeps under review of their legal and other duties and obligations as the need for appointments to the Board, prepares a director of a listed company, both in writing and in a description of the specic experience and skills face-to-face meetings with the Secretary.
They are needed for an appointment, considers candidates who reminded of these duties each year and they are also are put forward by the directors and external updated on changes to the legal and governance consultants, and recommends to the Board requirements of the company and upon themselves as the appointments of all directors after having met directors.
During the 2003 financial year, for example, short-listed candidates.
It also reviews the time they have received briengs on the recommended required from the Deputy Chairman and other changes to UK corporate governance put forward by non-executive directors to carry out their duties and Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith, the Enterprise Act advises the Board on succession planning for and the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of the positions of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief 2002 that affect BT because its shares are registered Executive and all other Board appointments.
In with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
the Boards opinion, it is appropriate for the Chairman Guidelines are in place concerning the content, to chair the Nominating Committee in its task presentation and delivery of papers for each Board of reviewing and agreeing the structure of the board meeting, so that the directors have enough information and considering candidates as directors, both executive to be properly briefed.
The Committee met once during The Board has agreed that it will carry out an the 2003 financial year.
This will be carried out The Audit Committee, comprising solely by questionnaire and, where appropriate, individual independent non-executive directors, is chaired by interviews during summer 2003, with a subsequent Sir Anthony Greener.
The members of the Committee review at a board meeting.
all bring relevant experience from senior executive levels.
The Committee recommends the appointment Principal Board committees and reappointment of the companys auditors, The Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, chairs ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate the Operating Committee, which meets weekly.
The intervals, and considers the resignation or dismissal other members are the Group Finance Director, of the auditors, recommending to the Board the Chief Executives of BT Retail, BT Wholesale and appropriate action to appoint new auditors.
It reviews BT Global Services and the Chief Broadband officer.
the auditors performance, including the scope of The Secretary attends all meetings.
The Committee the audit, and recommends to the Board appropriate has collective responsibility for running the groups remuneration.
The Committee monitors the extent business end-to-end.
To do that, it develops the groups of non-audit work to be performed by the companys strategy and budget for Board approval, recommends auditors to ensure that the provision of non-audit to the Board the groups capital expenditure and services does not impair their independence or investments budgets, monitors the financial, objectivity.
It discusses with the auditors the scope operational and customer quality of service of their audits before they commence, reviews performance of the whole group, allocates resources the results and considers the auditors Management across the group within plans agreed by the Board, Letter and reports the results of those reviews to the plans and delivers major cross-business programmes Board.
The Audit Committee reviews the companys and reviews the senior talent base and succession plans published financial results, the Annual Report and Form of the group.
20-F and other published information for statutory and A sub-committee of the Operating Committee, regulatory compliance.
It also reviews the disclosure the Management Council, meets monthly.
It consists made by the Chief Executive and Group Finance of the Operating Committee members plus a number Director during the certication process for the annual of other senior executives.
It is an advisory forum report about the design or operation of internal supporting the Chief Executive and the Operating controls or material weaknesses in the controls, Committee in policy formulation, in areas such as public including any fraud involving management or other policy, reputation and business practices policies, employees who have a significant role in the companys human resources and employment policies.
The Board, as required by UK law, specic sub-committee of its own the Management takes responsibility for all disclosures in the annual Council monitors the performance of the BT Pension report.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the Scheme, draws material matters on pensions policy to standards of risk management and internal control, the the Boards attention, reviews public policy, regulatory effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting, and Government activities in the pensions area and accounting policies and procedures, and the companys oversees internal and external communications on statements on internal controls before they are agreed pensions matters.
by the Board for each years annual report.
It also The Nominating Committee, consisting of reviews the companys internal audit function and its the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and two other relationship with the external auditors, including non-executive directors, ensures an appropriate internal audits plans and performance.
The Group balance of experience and abilities on the Board, using Finance Director and the Secretary attend its meetings.
this evaluation to review annually the size and Each year, the Committee sets aside time to seek 54 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Corporate governance the views of the companys internal and external and each business unit.
This information is reviewed by auditors in the absence of executives.
The Committee senior management as part of the strategic review.
met four times during the 2003 financial year.
At its The groups current key risks are summarised on meetings the Committee has reviewed the companys page 140 of this document.
full year and quarterly results and its Annual Report The key features of the risk management process and Form 20-F and considered the adequacy of comprise the following procedures: & the financial systems that have produced those results.
senior executives, led by the groups Risk It has reported its views to the Board so it has been Manager, review the groups key risks and have created able to approve the results announcements and the a group risk register.
This is reviewed by annual report for publication.
It has also during the the Management Council before being approved by 2003 financial year considered the groups risk register the Board.
& as submitted to it by the Management Council and the lines of business carry out risk assessments reviewed the companys internal control, accounting of their operations, have created registers relating systems and related matters.
to those risks, and ensure that the key risks are The Committee has agreed, for the 2004 financial addressed.
Line of business audit committees monitor year, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to: the standards of internal controls in the lines & establish a process for dealing with complaints of business.
& received by the company regarding accounting, senior management report regularly to the Group internal accounting controls or auditing matters, and Finance Director on the operation of internal controls the condential, anonymous submission by employees in their area of responsibility.
of concerns regarding questionable accounting or & the Chief Executive receives annual reports from auditing matters.
senior executives with responsibilities for major group & oversee the adoption of a specic code of ethics operations with their opinion on the effectiveness of the for the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and operation of internal controls during the financial year.
Director Group Financial Control, which is consistent & the groups internal auditors carry out continuing with BTs overall statement of business ethics see assessments of the quality of risk management and Statement of business practice on page 56. control.
They also promote effective risk management The Remuneration Committee comprises solely in the lines of business operations.
& independent non-executive directors and is chaired the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, by Sir Anthony Greener.
It met seven times during considers the effectiveness of the operation of internal the 2003 financial year.
Further details about control procedures in the group during the financial the Committee are included in the Report on year.
This follows consideration of the matter by directors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews Committee memberships are shown in Board of reports from the internal auditors and from the external directors and Operating Committee on pages 50 auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit Committee has carried out these actions for the 2003 financial year.
Internal control and risk management Material joint ventures and associates, which BT The Board is responsible for the groups systems does not control, outside the UK have not been dealt of internal control and risk management and for with as part of the group for the purposes of this reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any Relations with shareholders system can provide only reasonable and not absolute Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Group Finance Director, hold meetings with The Board also takes account of significant social, the companys principal institutional shareholders to environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs discuss the companys strategy, financial performance businesses.
The companys workplace practices, and specic major investment activities.
As explained specic environmental, social and ethical risks and in the Report on directors remuneration, we also opportunities and details of underlying governance maintain contact, when appropriate, through processes are dealt with in the Our people and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and other Our commitment to society sections of this report.
senior executives to discuss overall remuneration BT has processes for identifying, evaluating and policies and plans.
Contact with institutional managing the significant risks faced by the group.
shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and These processes have been in place for the whole the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure of the 2003 financial year and have continued up to the protection of share price sensitive information that the date on which this document was approved.
has not already been made generally available to The processes are in accordance with the guidance the companys shareholders.
for directors published in the UK in September 1999.
We are continuing our policy that shareholders Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an vote on the annual report at the AGM.
Shareholders integral part of the groups annual strategic planning will also be asked this year to vote on the Report on cycle.
The group has a detailed risk management directors remuneration as required by the Directors process which identies the key risks facing the group Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, having been BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 55 Corporate governance asked to vote on the companys remuneration policy online training.
A condential helpline and e-mail at previous AGMs.
facility are also available to employees who have It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully questions about the application of these principles.
in the affairs of the company and to give them We also continue to require our agents and contractors the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about to apply these principles when representing BT.
the companys activities and prospects.
We also give the shareholders the opportunity to vote on every Political donations substantially different issue by proposing a separate It has always been BTs policy that no company in resolution for each issue.
The Boards opinion is that the group shall make cash contributions to any political the re-election and the fees of the auditors are party.
However, the Companies inter-related matters and should therefore be dealt with Act 1985 requires companies to obtain shareholder in one resolution.
authority before they can make donations to EU The proxy votes for and against each resolution, political organisations which includes UK political as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM parties.
The denition of political donations used in and the results will be made available at the meeting the Act is very much broader than the ordinary sense after the shareholders have voted on each resolution in which these words are used.
As a result, it covers on a show of hands.
activities which form part of normal relationships It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM between BT and the political machinery.
Whilst, because of ill health or other activities are not designed to support any political party pressing reasons, this may not always be possible, in or to inuence public support for a particular party and normal circumstances this means that the chairman of would not be thought of as political donations in the Audit and Remuneration Committees is at the AGM the everyday sense of these words.
They are entirely and is available to answer relevant questions.
non-political in nature and are designed so that BT can The Annual Review and, if requested, the Annual make MPs and others aware of key industry issues and Report and Form 20-F, together with the Notice of the matters affecting the company.
AGM, are sent to shareholders in the most The authority we are requesting from shareholders cost-effective fashion, given the large number of at the AGM is not designed to change the companys shareholders.
We aim to give as much notice as stated policy of not making cash contributions.
It will, possible and at least 21 clear days, as required by however, ensure that BT acts within the provisions the companys articles of association.
In practice, these of the current UK law when carrying out the above documents are being sent to shareholders more than activities.
They are carried out on an even-handed 20 working days before the AGM.
basis related broadly to the major UK political parties Established procedures ensure the timely release electoral strength and the company believes that they of share price sensitive information and the publication make an important contribution to the success of BT.
of the companys financial results and regulatory financial statements.
Pension funds BTs two main pension funds the BT Pension Scheme Non audit services provided by the external and the BT Retirement Plan are not controlled by auditors the Board but by separate trustees who are company As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it is and union nominees, under independent chairmen.
necessary to employ the companys external auditors The trustees look after the assets of the funds, which for certain non-audit work.
In order to maintain are held separately from those of the company.
the independence of the external auditors, the Board The pension schemes funds can only be used in has determined policies as to what non-audit services accordance with their respective rules and for no can be provided by the companys external auditors other purpose.
and the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not be Reporting offered to the external auditors unless there are clear A statement by the directors of their responsibilities efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
for preparing the financial statements is included in The Audit Committee monitors the level of non-audit the Statement of directors responsibility on page 73. fees paid to the external auditors.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Statement of business practice BT has securities registered with the US Securities and To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, BT is obliged in our standards of business integrity, BT has a written to comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley statement of business practice The Way We Work.
Act the Act applicable to foreign issuers.
BT will The statement covers all our operations and reects comply with the legal and regulatory requirements the expectations in the area of corporate governance introduced pursuant to this new legislation, in so far and business practice standards.
A copy of the as they are applicable to the group.
statement has been sent to every employee and is In accordance with the recommendations issued by also available on the companys intranet site.
the SEC, BT has established a Disclosure Committee These high-level principles are supported by comprising appropriate senior executives which reports a comprehensive communications programme and to the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
56 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Corporate governance The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director after evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures within 90 days of the date of the groups Annual Report and Form 20-F, have concluded that, at that date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by others within the BT group particularly during the period in which the Annual Report and Form 20-F was being prepared.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also provided the certications required by the Act.
There were no significant changes in BTs internal controls or in other factors that could signicantly affect these controls subsequent to the date the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director completed their evaluation, nor were there any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in BTs internal controls requiring corrective actions.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 57
