corporate governance Corporate governance Currently the Board comprises the Chairman, Mr P B Ellwood since The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
1 January 2004 and Chief Executive, Dr J D G McAdam, together Throughout 2003 and to the date of this Annual Report the Company with three Executive Directors and four independent NEDs including has been in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Combined the Senior Independent Director, Lord Butler.
An additional Code on Corporate Governance adopted in 1998.
In addition the independent NED, Baroness Noakes, will be joining the Board with Company is implementing procedures to ensure that it will comply effect from 1 March 2004.
Biographical details of the Directors are set with the provisions of the revised Combined Code issued by the out on pages 30 and 31.
Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
Collectively the NEDs bring a valuable range of international experience The Board and expertise from a variety of business sectors and public life.
Within the overall strategy and objectives for the Group agreed by the The Board has assessed the independence of the NEDs against the Board, day to day management is delegated to the Chief Executive criteria set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance and Executive Management Team EMT with individual chief executive and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Rules save officers being responsible for the performance of each of the businesses.
that in the case of the latter the Board has not sought to enquire into The Board, however, reviews the operational performance of the interests of Directors family members other than their spouse.
Group on a regular basis and also exercises a number of reserved On this basis, the Board has concluded that all the NEDs are powers which include: independent.
On the same basis, Mr Ellwood was also independent when appointed Chairman.
Responsibility for the strategic direction of the Group: The former Chairman, Lord Trotman retired on 31 December 2003.
Appointment and dismissal of the Chief Executive and any member In seeking his successor the Company instructed external recruitment of the Board or EMT and succession planning for these roles: advisers.
Following a shortlist and interview process, Mr Ellwood, Establishing, via the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration who met the independence criteria of the revised Combined Code on policy for Executive Directors and members of the EMT: Corporate Governance, was offered and accepted the position of Deputy Chairman, with a view to succeeding Lord Trotman after a Authorisation of material borrowings and any issue of equity suitable transition period.
In filling any future vacancies for Non-Executive securities: Directors the Company expects to follow a similar selection process.
Committing to major capital expenditure, acquisitions or Mr Ellwood is not currently a director of any other company and divestments: his agreement with ICI prohibits him from becoming Chairman of Agreeing treasury policy including the agreement of foreign currency another company without ICIs consent.
He does perform a number and interest risk parameters: and of pro-bono roles but the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman of ICI Dividend policy.
which are based around a commitment of approximately 150 days The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity per annum.
of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system In appointing Executive Directors the Board typically considers of internal control and risk management processes.
both internal and external candidates.
Mr D C M Hamill, who was All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper appointed an Executive Director and Chairman and Chief Executive stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors of ICI Paints on 8 December 2003 was recruited after a search and NEDs however, have a particular responsibility to challenge short listing process conducted with the assistance of external constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and recruitment advisers.
Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: assess All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every risk and the integrity of financial information and controls: and ensure three years.
Subject to satisfactory performance, NEDs are normally appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in expected to serve two three-year terms commencing with the first place in relation to Executive Directors and other senior executive roles.
Annual General Meeting after the date of their appointment.
To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, the Chairman, with The principal Board Committees are the Nomination Committee, the assistance of the Company Secretary the appointment or removal of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee, which report whom is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible for ensuring to the Board.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees meet at least that full and timely access is provided to all relevant information.
There is quarterly and the Nomination Committee as and when required.
also a procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice Summary remits of the Committees are set out below and full terms at the Companys expense where appropriate.
of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com and in paper form from the Company Secretariat on request.
Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during 2003 is set out in the following table.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 33 corporate governance Attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings held in 2003 Full Remuneration Audit Board and Nomination Committee Committee Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended to attend to attend to attend Lord Trotman 10 10 5 5 n a P B Ellwood 4 4 5 5 2 2 Dr J D G McAdam 10 10 n a n a A Baan 10 9 11 10 4 4 Lord Butler 10 10 11 9 4 3 J T Gorman 10 10 11 11 4 4 D C M Hamill 1 1 n a n a R N Haythornthwaite 10 9 11 10 4 2 W H Powell 10 10 n a n a T A Scott 10 10 n a n a Directors who resigned during the year B R ONeill 3 3 n a n a P J Drechsler 3 3 n a n a When meeting as the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee The Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48 includes details of Prior to 1 January 2004, the Board operated with a single remuneration policy and practices, and on the remuneration of Remuneration and Nomination Committee made up of the NEDs and Directors.
The Chairman was also a member Audit Committee when the Committee met as the Nomination Committee.
Reflecting The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its the recommendations of the revised Combined Code, the responsibilities for corporate governance, financial reporting and Remuneration and Nomination Committee was reconstituted on corporate control.
It comprises the independent NEDs under the 1 January 2004 as two separate Committees.
The Nomination chairmanship of Mr J T Gorman.
The Company Secretary acts as Committee has since comprised the independent NonExecutive Secretary to the Committee.
The dates on which these individuals Directors under the chairmanship of Mr Ellwood.
The Company were first appointed to the Committee are as follows: Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
J T Gorman September 2000 The Nomination Committee is responsible for proposing new A Baan June 2001 appointments of Directors to the Board.
Lord Butler July 1998 Two Directors were appointed during the year.
The process behind R N Haythornthwaite February 2001 the Nomination Committees decision to recommend Mr Ellwood and Audit Committee Report Mr Hamill to the Board is set out above.
The work of the Audit Committee during 2003 included consideration Lord Butler, in his capacity as the Companys Senior Independent of the following matters: Director, promotes discussion at appropriate times about the i In respect of the 2002 year end: the full year results release, the Company Chairmanship and succession arrangements.
The Chairman Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F, and the annual report does not participate in these discussions.
Remuneration Committee ii The 2002 full year report on internal audit and the effectiveness of The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the internal control.
Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and the most senior management of the Company.
The iii The quarterly financial results and the Interim Report 2003.
Committee determines the total remuneration packages for these iv The recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of KPMG individuals including any compensation on termination of office.
Audit Plc as the external auditors and approval of the 2003 The Committee is comprised exclusively of the independent NEDs of external audit plan and fee proposal.
the Company under the chairmanship of Mr Haythornthwaite.
v The progress of the internal audit programme and matters arising.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Executive Vice President Human vi The policy on auditor independence and provision of audit and Resources and Vice President Compensation & Benefits are normally non-audit services by the auditor.
invited to attend meetings to respond to specific questions raised by the Committee.
This specifically excludes any matter concerning the vii Corporate governance developments in the UK arising from the detail of their own personal remuneration.
The Company Secretary revised Combined Code, and in the US under the Sarbanes-Oxley acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the Groups action plans in response to these developments.
viii The Groups risk management process.
34 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Audit Committee Report continued The GRC reviews input from businesses and corporate management and reports its conclusions to the Audit Committee.
The internal audit function reviews internal controls in all key activities x The introduction of the Group Whistleblowing programme.
of the Group, typically over a three year cycle.
It acts as a service to xi Developments in accounting standards and the Groups the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of responses, including the preparation for adoption of International controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its Financial Reporting Standards.
recommendations and these are followed up to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Quarterly reviews are also Regular attendees at Audit Committee meetings, at the invitation conducted between internal audit management and the senior of the Chairman of the Committee, included: the Chairman, Chief management of the businesses to assess their current control Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Internal Auditor, Group status and to identify and address any areas of concern.
Financial Controller and the General Counsel.
The Committee regularly meets with the external and internal auditors without the presence The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the of management.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended to and the risks to which it is exposed and are designed to manage preserve the independence of KPMG Audit Plc when acting as auditor rather than eliminate the risk to the achievement of business of the Group Accounts.
This policy governs the provision of audit and objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute non-audit services by the auditor and its associates.
It identifies assurance against misstatement or loss.
certain non-audit services which the auditor is prohibited from providing and requires all permitted audit and non-audit services to be The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board.
approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by adopted specific policies and procedures to govern the arrangements the Chief Executive and are reviewed in total by the Board in the light by which the audit and non-audit services are approved.
Certain of the Groups overall objectives.
defined categories of service are approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis and, in addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success may approve urgent engagements not covered by these categories of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
subsequently notifying the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
Such processes, include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the regular monitoring of performance, control over capital Audit and internal control expenditure and investments and the setting of high standards and In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the targets for safety, health and environmental performance.
Businesses Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and are responsible for meeting the defined reporting timetables and managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups compliance with Group accounting manuals which set out accounting strategic objectives.
The process has been in place throughout 2003 policies, controls and definitions.
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The effectiveness of this The Chief Executive receives a monthly summary of financial results process has been reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee which from each business, and the Groups published quarterly financial reports its findings for consideration by the Board.
information is based on a standardised and timely reporting process.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the Responsibility for monitoring compliance with Group policies and effectiveness of the system of internal control include: guidelines rests with the chief executive officers of the businesses and with senior managers of the Corporate Centre.
Annual statements of Discussions with management on risk areas identified by compliance are provided to the Board, and these statements are management and or the audit process: reviewed by the relevant functional leader for each policy area.
In turn, The review of internal and external audit plans: there is an annual report to the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, on the degree of compliance with Group policies and guidelines.
The review of significant issues arising from internal and external Corrections to any weaknesses found are monitored and controls are audits: developed to match changing circumstances.
The review of significant Group risks reported by the Group Risk Shareholder views Committee GRC : and Responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with Annual compliance statements from each business and major investors and that the Board understands the views of major function.
shareholders rests with the Chairman, who regularly makes himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
On a day-to-day basis The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of its review of the Boards primary contact with major shareholders is via the Chief the risk assessment process.
The Board then draws its collective Executive and Chief Financial Officer, but the Senior Independent conclusions as to the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Director and other members of the Board are available to meet major The GRC consolidates and prioritises for the Board the inputs received investors on request.
The Senior Independent Director has a specific from management of the businesses and corporate functions.
The responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns which GRC comprises the heads of major corporate functions, the Chief contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has Internal Auditor and the General Counsel.
failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 35 corporate governance The Board commissions an independent survey of investor views alternative, shareholders can leave written questions for response by covering both the UK and US on a biennial basis which provides valuable the Company.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can feedback from investors.
The survey includes a specific opportunity for meet informally with the Directors.
There is regular dialogue with investors to comment on the quality of the communication they receive individual institutional shareholders as well as presentations to in their contact with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
analysts after the quarterly results.
com provides financial and other information about ICI and Board effectiveness contains an archive of past announcements and Annual Reports.
All new Directors receive a formal induction tailored to their particular needs.
Executive Directors performance is appraised at least annually by the Chief Executive who consults the Chairman for feedback from the NEDs.
The NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief Executive to discuss and evaluate Board and individual Directors performance and succession plans.
The Chief Executive and Chairman each absent themselves from these discussions when their own performance is being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chairman except in relation to his own performance and succession when the Senior Independent Director takes the chair and feedback is provided.
With effect from 2004, the Chairman will be meeting each NED at least once a year on a one-to-one basis for a formal performance evaluation discussion.
The Board conducts periodic reviews of its effectiveness.
Historically these have been undertaken internally but in 2004 there will be a formal externally facilitated review of the effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees.
US corporate governance compliance As a consequence of its US listing, the Company is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, as it applies to foreign issuers.
The Company continues to monitor its legal and regulatory obligations arising from Sarbanes-Oxley.
The Company has taken action to be compliant with those rules that have already become effective, and is developing plans to address rules with effective dates in 2004 and beyond.
In accordance with recommendations issued by the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives from the ICI Corporate Centre: the General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer, the Investor Relations Director, and the Chief Internal Auditor and Group Financial Controller.
The Committee designs, maintains and evaluates the Companys disclosure controls and procedures and reports its evaluation to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Principles of business conduct As a leading international company, ICIs reputation for high ethical standards is central to its business success.
A Code of Business Conduct which provides guidance in this area has been communicated throughout the Group.
The Code is published on the Companys website www.
com and is available in paper form from the Company Secretariat on request.
Communications with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Annual Review is sent to shareholders and a full Annual Report and Accounts is available by election or on request.
In addition, at the half year, an interim report is produced and sent to shareholders and the quarterly results are published via the London Stock Exchange and by press release.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to question the Chairman and through him the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
As an 36 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
