CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Thissectiondiscusses Smith& Nephews structures and governanceprocedures.
Eustace..............  10 November1999 2006 SirChristopherJ.
ODonnell...... Executive Director, Chief 1 September 1992 2004 Executive Peter Hooley.................. Executive Director responsible 2 April 1991 2006 forFinanceand Information Technology Dr. Pamela J. Kirby.............  1 March2002 2005 WarrenD.
Knowlton............  1 November2000 2004 BrianLarcombe................  1 March2002 2005 RichardDeSchutter............  1 January2001 2004 Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg..........  1 January1998 2004 Ages of and Appointments held by Directors Dudley G. Eustace, Chairman, age 67, was appointed Deputy Chairman in 1999 and Chairman in January 2000.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is the non-executive Chairman of Sendo Holdings plc and a nonexecutive director of KLM Royal DutchAirlines NV, Aegon NV, Hagenmeyer NV and Royal KPN NV.
From March to August 2003 he was interim Chief Financial Officer of Royal Ahold N. V. and remained a member of the Corporate Executive .
Sir Christopher J. ODonnell, Chief Executive, age 57, joined the Group in 1988 as managing director of the Groups medical division and was appointed a director of Smith & Nephew in 1992.
He was appointed Chief Executive in 1997 and is a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is a non-executive director of BOC Group Plc.
Previously he held senior positions with UK and US companies in the medical engineering and devices industry.
Peter Hooley, Finance Director, age 57, joined the Group and was appointed Finance Director in 1991.
Dr. Pamela J. Kirby, age 50, appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Warren D. Knowlton, age 57, appointed a director in November 2000.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee anda memberofthe .
Brian Larcombe, age 50, appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Richard fide Schutter, age 63, appointed a director in January 2001 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is a non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a  ofVarianInc.
MedPointe Pharmaceuticals, Metaphore Pharmaceuticals, and NavicureInc.
Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg, age 63, a director since 1998.
He is senior independent director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of Management Consulting Group PLC and a non-executive director of Scania AB, Reed Elsevier plc, TPG Group Plc, .
Other Directors SirTimothyLankester retired fromthe Boardon29 April 2003.
44 EXECUTIVEOFFICERS The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Group Executive Committee GEC, whichcomprises the Executive Directorsand certain other senior executives of Smith & Nephew the Executive Officers, assists the Chief Executive in the management of the business.
The following are Executive Officers of Smith & Nephew and all, apart from the CompanySecretary, are members ofthe GEC: Dr. Peter Arnold, age 42, Group Director of Technology.
He joined the Group in 1997 and worked in corporate business development and corporate research and development roles.
In January 2004 he was appointed to the GEC.
Prior to joining the Group he was responsible for research and development for Johnson & Johnsons woundcarebusiness.
James L. Dick, age 51, President Advanced Wound Management.
He joined the Group in 1977 and has worked for the Group predominately in sales, marketing and general management roles with particular emphasis on international marketing, country management and new technology.
He was appointed to the GEC in January 1999.
Peter W. Huntley, age 43, Group Director, Indirect Markets.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in April 1998, responsible for the Groups strategy and business planning.
Previously he was a consultant with   DirectorforMatthew Clarkplc.
David Illingworth, age 50, President Orthopaedics.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in May 2002.
His previous experience includes posts within GE Medical, as CEO of a publicly traded medical device company, President ofa respiratory  of a technologyincubator.
James A. Ralston, age 57, Chief Legal Officer.
He joined the Group in 1999 as Senior VP and General Counsel for North America and was appointed to the GEC in February 2002.
Previously he was in private practice and VP General Counseland Secretary , Inc. James Taylor, age 47, President Endoscopy.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC in June 2000.
He was previously President of DePuy International and has held senior positions with British Leyland and ChlorideGroup.
Paul M. Williams, age 57, Group Director Human Resources.
He joined the Group and was appointed to the GEC inDecember1998.
Company Secretary Paul R. Chambers, age 59.
He joined the Group in 1994 as Assistant Company Secretary and was appointed CompanySecretary inApril2002.
Sparks left the GroupinSeptember 2003 and Dr. Alan Suggett retired on31 December2003.
45 GOVERNANCE AND POLICY The Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to and forming part of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules requires companies on the official list to make a disclosure statement on the application of the principles of andcompliancewiththe  Code.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and considers that the Company has  .
The Companys American Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as the US securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board believes that it has  yearwithbothSEC and NYSE requirementsrelated to corporategovernance.
The Board The Board of Directors of Smith & Nephew is scheduled to meet five times a year and consists of an independent non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
In 2003 the Board met on nine occasions and individual attendance was: Dudley Eustace 9, Sir Christopher ODonnell 9, Peter Hooley 9, Dr Pam Kirby 7, Warren Knowlton 8, Brian Larcombe 9, Richard fide Schutter 9 and Dr Rolf Stomberg 9.
Non-executive directors meet regularly without management in attendance.
Board meetings are held at the major business units enabling directors to have a greater understanding of the business and to meet the management of these units.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and, if necessary, to independent professional advice.
Appropriate directors and officers liability insurance is in place and induction programmes and training are offered to new directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary .
The Board is responsible for the strategic direction and overall management of the Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which include the approval of certain policies, budgets, financing plans, large capital expenditure projects and treasury arrangements but otherwise delegates specific responsibilities to Board Committees, as described below.
It reviews the key activities of the business and considersandreviews the workundertakenby the Committees.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive who is empowered by the Board to manage and supervise the day to day business of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board.
The GEC advises and assists the Chief Executive in the management ofthe Group.
Procedures for the self-evaluation of performance by the Board are in place.
However the Board is of the view that these require updating, and an external consultant is currently producing a performance evaluation report whichwillbe presented tothe Boardafter publicationof this report.
The Board has determined that none of the independent directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the Group.
They do not receive additional remuneration apart from directors fees, do not participate in the Groups share option schemes or performance related pay schemes, and are not members of the Groups pension schemes.
No director of Smith & Nephew is a director of a company or anaffiliate & Nephewis a director.
There is a senior independent director, Dr Rolf Stomberg, whose role includes consulting with members of the Board on issues relating to the Chairman and chairing Board meetings and meetings of the Nominations and Audit Committee inthe absence ofthe ChairmanorChairmanof the Audit Committee.
Details of the Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are included in the RemunerationReport onpages 51to58.
46 Board Committees The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees each of which has its own terms of reference which may be found at www.
The secretary to each of the committees is the CompanySecretary.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee met on four occasions in 2003 individual attendance is shown in parenthesis and is chaired by Warren D Knowlton 4.
He was appointed to the Committee in February 2001 and became Chairman of the Committee in July 2001.
The other members of the Committee are Brian Larcombe 4 who was appointed to the Committee in January 2003, Richard fide Schutter 4 who was appointed in February 2001 and Dr Rolf Stomberg 3 who was appointed in February 1998.
Sir Timothy Lankester 2 retired as a member of the Committee on29April2003.
The Audit Committee monitors the operation and effectiveness of internal financial controls, reviews the integrity of the accounts, ensures that they meet statutory and other requirements and reviews compliance with corporate governance requirements.
It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department and selects, determines the fees and reviews the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Since January 2003, non-audit work performed by the auditors is pre-approved by the Committee which ensures that the nonaudit work will not affect the independence of the auditors, within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements, and that the objectivity of the audit partners and audit staff is not impaired.
The Chairman of the Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
The Board considers that all members of the Committee are qualified to meet the definition of financial expert in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met three times in 2003 individual attendance is shown in parenthesis and is chaired by Dr Rolf Stomberg 3.
The other members of the Committee are Dr Pam Kirby 3, Warren Knowlton 2 who was appointed in May 2003 and Richard fide Schutter 3.
The Remuneration Committee sets the pay and benefits of the executive directors and members of the GEC, approves their main terms of employment and determines share options and long-term incentive arrangements.
It also reviews management succession planning.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee met on two occasions in 2003 individual attendance is shown in parenthesis, chaired by Dudley Eustace 2, consists of Sir Christopher ODonnell 2 and Dr. Rolf Stomberg 2.
It oversees plans for Board of Directors succession, recommends appointments to the Boardof Directorsand determines the fees of the non-executive directors.
It provides a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board and generally engages external consultants to advise on prospective Board appointees.
Job profiles are agreed by the Committee before the consultants are engaged to prepare short lists of potentially suitable candidates.
Directorsand ExecutiveOfficers Under Smith & Nephews Articles of Association, any Director who has been appointed by the Board of Directors since the previous annual general meeting of shareholders, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, holds office only until the next annual general meeting and then is eligible for election by the shareholders.
Subsequently Directors shall retire and be eligible for re-appointment at the third annual general meeting after the meeting at which they were last re-appointed.
The Directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.
Executive Officers serve at the discretion of the BoardofDirectors.
In 2004 and in accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir Christopher ODonnell, Dr Rolf Stomberg, Warren Knowlton and Richard fide Schutter retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the  heldon6May2004.
None of the Directors or Executive Officers or any relative or spouse of such person, or any relative of such spouse, who has the same address as the Director or Officer, or who is a Director or Officer of any subsidiary of Smith & Nephew has a material interest in any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or werea party fromthe beginningoffiscal year2002 to March2004.
47 SHAREHOLDERS Shareholders The Group issues the Summary Financial Statement, which is a summary report on the year, to shareholders outside the US unless a shareholder requests the Groups full Annual Report.
Over 90% of shareholders have chosen to receive only the Summary Financial Statement.
At the half year, an interim report is sent to all shareholders.
A copy of the full Annual Report is available on the Smith & Nephew website along with press releases,  andaudiowebcasts.
There are regular dialogues with individual institutional shareholders, together with results presentations twice a year.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question directors at the AGM and the Company regularly responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Executive Directors review significant issues raised byinvestors withthe Board.
In 2004, the Group will introduce quarterly reporting which will be made available through stock exchange  Groupswebsite at www.
Share Capital At the AGM, the Company will be seeking a renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased or contracted for or are the subject of an option under the  at the AGM of 29 April 2003.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and a resolution proposing their reappointment, whichhas been approved bythe Audit Committee, willbe put to the AGM.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the SEC may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at http: www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the other information submitted by the Group to the SEC maybe accessed throughthiswebsite.
48 ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDITAND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process has been in place for 2003 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts involving the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee which reports to the Board annually, and by a system of functionalreports to the Board and the review of internal financial controls by the Audit Committee.
This process is reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, this process is designed to identify and managethose risksthat couldadversely impactthe achievementof the Groups objectives.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee comprises the members of GEC and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, management at each of the business units identify the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks.
The areas of potential major impact are reported to the Risk Committee for review.
These risks are detailed onpages 20to22.
In 2003, an independent assessment was carried out of the risk management framework established by the Group.
This confirmed that the risk management system in place complied with the guidance in the Turnbull Report, a guidance report issued by The Institute of Chartered Accounts in England and Wales to assist companies listed on the official list of the London Stock Exchange to implement the requirements of the .
Evaluation of DisclosureControls and Procedures As at 31 December 2003 the Groups Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures.
Based upon and as of the date of that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in all material respects, to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Group files and submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as andwhenrequired.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups .
DisclosuresCommittee The Disclosures Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, consists of the Finance Director and the Director of Corporate Affairs.
Its secretary is the Company Secretary.
It approves the releases of all communications to investors andtothe UK .
Code of BusinessPrinciples In 2003, the Board adopted a code of business principles which may be found at www.
com or made available on request.
The code is applicable to directors, officers and employees and any breaches of the codeare directed inwritingtothe CompanySecretary whois obligedto raise the issue withthe ChiefExecutive or Chairman.
Since its introduction in May 2003 there have been no reported breaches of the code nor have any waivers been put inplace.
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics which may be found at www.
It is applicable to the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions during 2003 or up until the signing of these accounts.
ActivitiesOf The Audit Committee for 2003 The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of the accounts, internal financial control, compliance with associated legal and regulatory 49 requirements, the performance of the Internal Audit function and the external auditors performance, qualifications and independence.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and other members of management attended the meetings when necessary.
The Group has a specific policygoverningthe conductof non-auditwork by the external auditors which prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as an advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
During the year ended 31 December 2003 the principal activities of the Committee included: consideration of the reports on the interim and annual accounts and proposed changes in UK GAAP and IFRS: a reviewofthe , its processes, outcomesand disclosures: a review of the Internal Audit Departments audit plan for the year, together with its resource requirements andfindings: a review of the reports from the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on their professional and regulatory compliance in order to maintain independence and objectivity including the rotation of partners.
It also reviewed the audit, audit-related and tax services provided by Ernst & Young LLP and in approving non-audit services provided by Ernst & Young LLP ensured that their objectivity and independence was not compromised.
Ernst & : the pre-approval ofall non-auditworkforthe year: consideration of the external auditors in-depth reports to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, and managements response.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and : no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or othermatters: and the Committees terms of reference were updated to reflect recent developments in corporate governance in the UK andthe US.
Auditrelated fees principally include accounting consultation and information systems audits.
Tax fees includes tax compliance, tax advice and tax planning services.
All other fees comprise tax, financial due diligence and listing and registration documentation work in relation to the unsuccessful public offers for Centerpulse AG and InCentiveCapital AG.
A moredetailed breakdownofauditfees maybe foundinNote37 of Notes to the Accounts.
Pre-Approval Policiesand Procedures Consistent with SEC policies regarding auditor independence, the Audit Committee has amended its policies and procedures relating to pre-approval of audit and non-auditservices.
In January of each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves annual limits for fees relating to audit, non-audit, taxation and other services in accordance with a detailed listing of particular services.
The Audit Committee is subsequently notified of the particular service.
In the event that limits for these detailed services are expected to be exceeded or the Group would like to ask its independent auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, the Audit Committees policies requireapproval bythe Chairmanofthe Audit Committee and a notificationto the Audit Committee of the service.
