Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in External Auditors fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of The report from  conrming Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal their independence and objectivity was reviewed by the control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the Committee.
It also reviewed the audit, audit-related, tax and external auditors performance, qualications and independence, consulting services provided by , and and the performance of the internal audit function.
During the compliance with Unilevers policy, introduced in January 2002, year ended 31 December 2003 the principal activities of the under which the types of engagements for which the external Committee were as follows: auditors can be used are prescribed.
All non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors were reviewed and Financial Statements authorised by the Committee in advance.
For further information, The Committee considered reports from the Financial Director on see page 50. the quarterly and annual financial statements and reviewed the Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F prior to publication.
The Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the It also reviewed critical accounting policies including proposed effectiveness of the external audit process and held independent changes in accounting principles in response to the changes in meetings with the external auditors, and have reported on their Netherlands and UK law and UK and US GAAP.
Audit of the Annual Accounts The Committee has recommended to the Boards the , Unilevers external auditors, reported in re-appointment of the external auditors.
depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, and managements response.
Their reports included Internal Audit Function accounting matters, governance and control, and accounting The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the developments.
Corporate Audit Departments audit plan for the year, together with its budget and resource requirements.
Risk Management and Internal Control Arrangements The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk The Committee held independent meetings with the Chief management and control, and its processes, outcomes and Auditor.
disclosure, including specically: Audit Committee Charter Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of The Committees terms of reference have been updated to reect Risk Management & Control, and managements response recent developments in corporate governance in the UK, the The Corporate Risk Committees annual report, which included European Union and the US.
The revised charter enhances the its recommendation for the Boards statement on internal Committees role and responsibilities and, in particular, makes the control and its analysis of the 2003 risk assessment process Committee responsible for overseeing Unilevers relations with the The reports from the Code of Business Principles Compliance external auditors.
Committee Controls over trade marketing investments The Audit Committee Charter terms of reference can be viewed Corporate risk management benchmarking study on Unilevers website at www.
Implementation of recent corporate governance requirements as outlined on page 47 The Committee conducted a self-assessment of its own Proceedings of the Disclosure Committee performance for review with the Boards.
Progress on the establishment of a global Ethics hotline which included a procedure for handling complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control and auditing matters An updated Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers for communication to the relevant ofcials in the Group Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 69
