Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Background 2003 Corporate Governance Report Mr Barrett has been Group Chief Executive of Barclays PLC for four years Chairmans Statement having joined the Group in October 1999.
During this time the strategy At Barclays, we are committed to having robust corporate governance that has been put in place has produced strong results.
Barclays is in the practices in place and applying the highest standards of business top quartile of its peers worldwide in terms of total shareholder return.
integrity in all of our activities.
It has performed signicantly better than the average of FTSE 100 companies.
In terms of market capitalisation, it is now a top ten bank 2003 has been another year in which corporate governance has been globally.
It has developed a powerful, cohesive management style and a the focal point of public and regulatory attention.
In July we saw the strong control culture.
Senior leaders have developed to the point where publication in the UK of the revised Combined Code on Corporate the Board had a wide choice of internal candidates to succeed Mr Barrett Governance, the culmination of the various reviews that took place in as Group Chief Executive.
2002 and 2003, including the Higgs and Smith Reports.
While Barclays will only be required to report on compliance with the revised Combined Code The announcements of the new Chairman and Group Chief Executive in respect of the 2004 financial year onwards, we are making every effort were made well in advance so that the Group could ensure a smooth to comply with it as quickly as possible.
transition to both roles and implement the new organisation structure which was announced at the same time.
Our commitment to complying with the revised Code was exemplied by our approach to the communication of our succession plans in October Process 2003.
The Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee, Sir Nigel The Board has conducted a thorough selection process.
In the case of Rudd, led the non-executive Directors in seeking my replacement as the Chairman, both external and internal candidates were considered.
I am pleased we have found the right candidate in Matthew The Nominations Committee was, for this purpose, chaired by Sir Nigel Barrett.
However, all the non-executive Directors, and eventually the whole Board, were involved.
I wrote to all shareholders on 6th November 2003 explaining why the Board came to its decision to appoint Mr Barrett as Chairman.
The Criteria Boards decision to appoint Mr Barrett followed an extensive and It is the obligation of the Board to appoint as Chairman the individual rigorous process involving all the non-executive Directors.
The process who, in its opinion, is best qualied to serve shareholders.
The Board involved establishing the desirable characteristics for a new Chairman established a number of desirable characteristics to guide its search for and reviewing external candidates, identied with the help of specialist a new Chairman.
These included: recruitment consultants, and their availability.
Mr Barrett was the Boards a Strong commitment to the creation of shareholder value and high unanimous choice.
The Board does not regard his appointment as standards of corporate governance.
setting a precedent in Barclays for appointing the Group Chief Executive b Experience of large multinational businesses.
to the position of Chairman.
c Ability to command the respect of Board members, shareholders, Mr Barretts appointment helps ensure stability within the senior employees and other key stakeholders.
leadership team at a time of considerable change when a number of d Understanding of the role of Chairman, including an ability to bring senior managers have been given revised and broader responsibilities.
a wider view to bear and work harmoniously with the new Group The Board also felt that Mr Barrett was the right person for the job given Chief Executive.
the need to continue to implement our strategy, which has been shown e Knowledge of the global financial services industry.
to be successful and value-creating for shareholders: Barclays financial It is the Boards intention that the responsibilities of the Chairman and results in 2003 were very strong.
The Board was also conscious that Mr Group Chief Executive will be agreed and set out in writing as they are Barrett has only been with Barclays for four years and was keen to currently for myself and Mr Barrett.
They will be consistent with both ensure we obtained maximum value from his contribution, given the the existing roles and the best practice guidelines on the role of the success Barclays has enjoyed under his leadership.
Chairman attached to the new Combined Code.
The Board thus considered that this particular combination of Reasons for the Boards Decision considerations at this particular time meant that Mr Barretts Mr Barrett emerged as the Boards unanimous choice, ahead of all other appointment was in the best interests of shareholders.
candidates, for the following reasons: The letter is reproduced in full below: a Mr Barrett is an experienced international businessman.
Prior to his Dear Shareholder service with Barclays, he served 37 years with the Bank of Montreal.
He was Chief Executive officer there for ten years.
He has also served Chairman of Barclays PLC as a non-executive Director on the Boards of multinational On 9th October 2003, Barclays announced a number of changes to the companies, serving at various times as Chairman of Audit, Finance, Board and to senior management.
The announcement said: Sir Peter Remuneration and Corporate Governance Committees.
Middleton, Chairman of the Board of Barclays PLC, will serve until b Mr Barretts knowledge of the financial services industry is deep and 31st December 2004, at which time Matthew W. Barrett will succeed him.
He brings a wide experience and perspective yet, when he Mr Barrett will be succeeded by John Varley as Group Chief Executive.
retires as Group Chief Executive, he will have spent a relatively short The Combined Code on Corporate Governance part of his career with Barclays.
The Board feels that there is much to The new Combined Code on Corporate Governance will apply for be gained for the Group from his continued presence, as Chairman.
reporting years beginning on or after 1st November 2003.
The Code will There is no reason to believe that his objectivity will be affected as require an explanation in cases where an individual who previously was it might have been had his whole career been with Barclays.
a Chief Executive officer of a company is appointed Chairman of the Board.
In Barclays case, this will be included in the Report and Accounts for 2003.
However, I am writing to you today on behalf of the Board to provide an early explanation of our decision.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 19 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report c Mr Barrett is totally committed to shareholder value and is an In the 2002 Annual Report, we disclosed how we had adopted a inspirational leader for Barclays employees.
Barclays results during formal system of annually evaluating the Board.
During 2003, we his period of ofce speak for themselves.
have expanded the assessment process by requiring the Board d Mr Barrett was Chairman of the Bank of Montreal for nine years Audit Committee to complete a similar questionnaire tailored to that and therefore has long experience of managing a Board of a major Committees function.
A tailored questionnaire has been or will be institution.
He fully understands UK corporate governance and the sent to all of the other principal Board Committees during 2004 and different roles played by Chairman and Chief Executive.
The results of these assessments will be e The Board is confident that Mr Barrett will continue to have a reported back to the Board, making recommendations for change.
productive and excellent relationship with John Varley, the new It is the responsibility of the Chairman to lead the non-executives in Group Chief Executive and other members of the Group executive.
assessing the performance of the Group Chief Executive.
The Board In particular, the Board feels that the new management team will Remuneration Committee evaluates the performance of the Chairman.
continue to develop the business, bringing benets to shareholders, The Chairman also meets annually with each of the non-executives to customers, staff and the communities in which Barclays operates.
discuss their performance as Directors during the year.
The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of matters reserved Senior Independent Director to it.
All Directors have access to the services of the Group Secretary and The Board intends to appoint a Senior Independent non-executive his team.
Independent professional advice is also available to all Director in line with the new Combined Code during 2004.
Directors at the Companys expense upon request.
Terms and Conditions Meetings of the Board are structured to allow and encourage open Mr Barretts terms and conditions, including his remuneration, will be discussion and frank debate to ensure that non-executive Directors settled nearer to the time of his appointment and will be appropriate provide effective challenge to the executive.
The Chairman meets to the role of Chairman.
privately with the non-executives prior to each Board meeting to brief non-executive Directors and to address any concerns they may have.
Consultation In 2004, there will also be a meeting of the non-executive Directors We have kept major shareholders informed of the Barclays Boards without the Chairman being present, to meet the requirements of the developing thinking on succession issues, in line with the revised Combined Code.
recommendations contained in the new Combined Code but I wanted to On appointment, non-executive Directors receive a comprehensive write to shareholders personally to explain how we have arrived at this induction, including site visits and meetings with senior management, important decision.
across the businesses and the Group Functions, to help them to build up quickly a detailed understanding of the Group.
Where appropriate, In conclusion, the Board is not complacent on Corporate Governance.
additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged by the As you will see in the following pages, the Board and its Committees Group Secretary.
have made continued strides to show Barclays as an exemplary At each AGM, one-third of the Directors rounded down retire and offer organisation in the eld of corporate governance.
The Group will themselves for re-election.
In practice, this means that every Director continue to play an active role in the ongoing debate on the stands for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Directors development of corporate governance best practice, promoting appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or Directors who reach the greater openness and transparency rather than prescriptive regulation.
age of 70, must also stand for re-election at the next AGM.
Our Directors diligently support the work of the Board and its Committees.
Sir Peter Middleton During the year, eleven Board meetings were held which included a Chairman two-day meeting on the Groups European operations and a full day spent reviewing the Groups strategy.
The attendance of individual Board Structure Directors at Board meetings during 2003 is shown in the table below: The Board consists of the Chairman, who has no executive Meetings Attended responsibilities, eight non-executive Directors all of whom are Sir Peter Middleton 11 11 considered to be independent by the Board and seven executive Matthew Barrett 11 11 Directors, including the Group Chief Executive.
Their biographical details David Arculus 10 11 are set out on pages 14 to 16.
The roles and responsibilities of our Sir Richard Broadbent appointed on 1st September 2003 5 5 Chairman and Group Chief Executive have been approved by the whole Hilary Cropper 7 11 Board, and their roles are separate, well documented and understood.
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson appointed on 1st March 2003 10 11 A summary of the relevant role is attached to each executive Directors Sir Brian Jenkins 11 11 service contract.
All service contracts are available for inspection during Chris Lendrum 10 11 ofce hours, on request, addressed to the Group Secretary.
Sir Nigel Mobbs retired on 24th April 2003 2 2 Sir Nigel Rudd 11 11 Under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive, executive management Stephen Russell 11 11 is responsible to the Board for the implementation of the strategy and John Stewart resigned on 27th February 2003 1 1 policies approved by the Board, making and implementing operational John Varley 11 11 decisions and running the Groups businesses.
Non-executive Directors, Graham Wallace resigned on 2nd April 2003 1 2 based on their breadth of knowledge and experience, challenge, monitor Dr Jrgen Zech 8 11 and approve the strategy and policies recommended by the executive.
20 Combined Code Statement of Compliance single member is a financial expert, as dened by the US SarbanesAs a Company listed on the ofcial list of the London Stock Exchange, Oxley Act 2002, or fully meets the requirements of the revised Barclays is required to state how it has applied the principles in the Combined Code in respect of recent and relevant financial experience.
United Kingdom Listing Authoritys Combined Code on Corporate The appointment to the Board and to the Board Audit Committee of Governance or, where these have not been applied, to provide an an individual who meets both tests is a priority for the Board in 2004. explanation accordingly.
However, Sir Brian Jenkins, a member of the Committee, is a chartered accountant and an ex-senior partner of Coopers & Lybrand.
For the year ended 31st December 2003, Barclays complied with the existing Combined Code save for the formal appointment of a Senior Members of the Committee during 2003, together with a record of Independent Director.
As set out in our letter to shareholders on their attendance at Committee meetings, are set out below: 6th November 2003, making such an appointment is a priority for the Meetings Attended Board during 2004.
However, the Group has in Sir Brian Jenkins a Deputy Stephen Russell, Chairman 5 5 Chairman and independent non-executive Director who is available as a Sir Brian Jenkins 5 5 point of contact for shareholders if required.
Dr Jrgen Zech appointed on 11th February 2003 3 4 The Board annually reviews the independence of its non-executive Professor Dame Sandra Dawson 1 2 Directors, taking into account developing best practice and regulation.
appointed on 1st August 2003 For 2003, the Board has determined that all the non-executive Directors Sir Nigel Mobbs until 24th April 2003 2 2 are independent under the existing Combined Code and after taking into During 2003, the Committee has met five times, with the Groups senior account all the independence factors outlined in the revised Combined management, the internal audit team and the external auditors, Code.
There is a strategic alliance between Barclaycard and Xansa, of  LLP.
In preparing for each of these meetings which Hilary Cropper was, until recently, Chairman.
Mrs Cropper has not, I also held discussions with each of them to ensure that the meetings and will not, participate in discussions relating to this alliance at Barclays of the Committee were as effective as possible.
The Committee also met Board meetings.
Mrs Cropper also refrained from discussing and voting privately with the external and internal auditors after each Committee on the alliance at meetings of the Xansa Board.
Mrs Cropper is no longer meeting and at other times, where appropriate.
a Director of Xansa although she is now Honorary President.
Having considered the matter carefully, the Board has concluded that Hilary The Committee is responsible for approving and reviewing the Cropper remains independent for these purposes under the existing appointment and retirement of the external auditors, as well as and the revised Combined Codes and demonstrates her independence overseeing their relationship with the Group.
This includes conducting at every Board meeting.
an annual review of the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors and the recommendation to the Board as to the level of fees to Although the standards in the revised Combined Code will only apply be paid to the external auditors.
to the Group from the 2004 financial year, Barclays has used its best endeavours to comply with it so far as possible.
The Boards view is that During the course of the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Group already complies with the principles set out in the revised a comprehensive and robust policy to regulate the Groups use of the Code.
However, work will be done in the coming year to ensure external auditors for non-audit services.
The policy sets out in detail compliance with the specic provisions, principally the appointment what services may or may not be provided to the Group by the external of a senior independent non-executive Director and a non-executive auditors.
The Committee must approve individual assignments which are Director with recent and relevant financial experience to serve on the not pre-approved or which exceed a certain value and sets aside time at Board Audit Committee.
each Committee meeting to discuss the external auditors independence, the level of non-audit fees being paid to them and the types of services Board Committees being provided by them, including a summary of all assignments preSpecic responsibilities have been delegated to Board committees.
approved since the last meeting.
In addition, the Committee has All Board Committees have access to independent expert advice at the approved a Code of Ethics applicable to the Group Chief Executive and Groups expense and, as explained above, are or will be subject to an the Groups senior financial ofcers.
annual self-assessment, the results of which are or will be reported to The responsibility for ensuring that management maintain an effective the Board.
The terms of reference for the principal Board committees are system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests also available on request from the Group Secretary.
The four principal with the Board.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Executive Board committees are: Committee is responsible for the management of risk and the Group Governance and Control Committee is responsible for monitoring the Board Audit Committee Groups assurance process and the risk governance framework to ensure Chairmans Statement that it is complete and effective.
The Board Audit Committee reviews the The Board Audit Committee has continued to play an important role in effectiveness of risk management standards and reviews reports on reviewing the Groups controls and financial reporting systems.
Its role is control issues of Group level signicance.
becoming increasingly complex and high prole given the focus on the work of audit committees over the last two years.
Barclays is fully The Committee has a pivotal role in reviewing the Groups annual and committed to ensuring its Board Audit Committee fulls its new duties interim financial statements, including the effectiveness of the Groups and responsibilities effectively.
disclosure controls and procedures and systems of internal control.
The remit of the Committee also extends to reviewing the work undertaken The Committee is made up entirely of independent non-executive by the internal audit team and reports produced by senior management Directors.
While the Committee has collectively the skills and experience on control issues, reporting its findings to the Board as appropriate.
required to fully discharge its duties, and has access to independent expert advice at the Groups expense, the Board has determined that no Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 21 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The Committee reviews arrangements established by management for Board Risk Committee compliance with the requirements of the Groups regulators and receives The members of the Committee during 2003, together with a record of reports on the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements their attendance at Committee meetings, are set out below: as well as reports on specic instances of whistleblowing.
This year, the Meetings Attended Committee has also reviewed a report on the implementation of Sir Peter Middleton, Chairman 4 4 International Financial Reporting Standards.
Sir Brian Jenkins 4 4 The Committee strives to ensure that it keeps abreast of all material Stephen Russell 4 4 developments in regulation and best practice affecting the work within its Hilary Cropper appointed on 11th February 2003 3 4 remit.
The Committee has in place procedures to ensure that it receives John Varley until 5th February 2004 3 4 regular briengs on such issues as well as training, where appropriate.
The Board Risk Committee meets at least four times a year to approve and, together with the Group Governance and Control Committee, Stephen Russell review on an annual basis the Groups Governance Principles.
These Board Audit Committee Chairman principles ow from the Groups belief that best practice governance, controls and compliance are essential for maximising shareholder Board Remuneration Committee value, the Groups governing objective.
The Committee also approves The members of the Committee during 2003, together with a record of Standards for the Groups risk control framework, including appropriate their attendance at Committee meetings, are set out below: risk identication and measurement processes and efficient control Meetings Attended mechanisms, delegating authority to the Director of Group Risk to approve minor revisions to the Standards in between meetings of the Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman 5 5 David Arculus 5 5 Committee.
Sir Brian Jenkins 5 5 As well as agreeing the overall risk appetite and risk prole for the Graham Wallace until 2nd April 2003 1 1 Group, the Committee receives and reviews reports that assess the Sir Nigel Mobbs until 24th April 2003 2 2 nature and extent of risks facing the Group, including Executive The Board Remuneration Committee meets at least four times a year Managements assessments of: to consider matters relating to executive remuneration including policy the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, and for executive Directors and senior executives remuneration, including the completeness of the Groups system of internal controls to bonus payments.
The Committee also meets to approve changes to manage those risks.
employee benets schemes and long-term incentive schemes.
Further details of the work of the Committee are set out in Barclays Report on The Committee is also responsible for approving certain policy Remuneration on pages 23 to 34. statements required by the Financial Services Authority.
An overview of the Groups risk management and control framework can be found on Board Nominations Committee page 37.
The members of the Committee during 2003, together with a record of their attendance at Committee meetings, are set out below: Relations with Shareholders Barclays has a proactive approach to its institutional and private Meetings Attended shareholders, totalling around 877,000.
In the UK, senior executives hold Sir Peter Middleton, Chairman 1 1 meetings with our key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, David Arculus 1 1 financial performance and investment activities.
Throughout Europe Sir Brian Jenkins 1 1 and in the US, we arrange road shows about the Group for key investors.
Sir Nigel Rudd 1 1 In addition, the Chairman meets regularly with investor bodies and Graham Wallace until 2nd April 2003 0 0 investors to discuss the Groups approach to corporate governance Sir Nigel Mobbs until 24th April 2003 0 0 Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson issues.
The Board Nominations Committee meets formally at least once a year The Group aims to provide a first class service to private shareholders to consider matters relating to the composition of the Board, the to help them in the effective and efficient management of their appointment of new Directors making recommendations to the Board shareholding in Barclays.
Last year we described the introduction as appropriate and succession planning for senior management of Barclays e-view, the service that enables shareholders to receive positions.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, shareholder documents electronically.
It also gives shareholders except when the Committee is considering the succession of the immediate access to information relating to their personal shareholding Chairman, in which case the Committee is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd.
Following the change of Share Registrar in During the course of the year, Sir Nigel led the search for Sir Peter November 2003 to Lloyds TSB Registrars, e-view is now a more Middletons successor.
Due to the importance that the Board placed comprehensive service and participants can now change their details on the succession, the decision was made to invite all non-executive and dividend mandates online.
In addition, dividend tax vouchers are Directors to additional meetings which considered the Chairmans and now available online for e-view members.
Group Chief Executives succession rather than just the Committee Our policy is to make constructive use of the AGM.
All Directors members set out above.
In addition to the meetings described above, the and, in particular, the chairmen of the Board Audit and Board non-executive Directors met prior to Board meetings and throughout Remuneration committees and those Directors standing for re-election, the year to review both the Chair and the Group Chief Executive are encouraged to attend the AGM and to be available to answer succession arrangements.
New non-executive Director appointments shareholders questions.
Normally, all resolutions are voted on a poll to were also considered at these meetings with support provided by ensure that the views of all shareholders are reected proportionately.
