Corporate Governance Attendance at Nomination Committee Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of Mr J H Ritblat 2 Mr D A Higgs 2 the Code of Best Practice set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Mr J H Weston Smith 2 Mr M J Cassidy 2 54 Board effectiveness Mr R W A Swannell 2 The Lord Burns 2 The directors listed on page 47 constituted the Board throughout the Dr C Gibson Smith 1 year except that Mr D Michels and Dr C Gibson-Smith were appointed Mr D Michels 1 on 1 January 2003.
The Board has a regular schedule of meetings There were two meetings during the year.
together with further meetings as required by the ongoing business One meeting held since appointment to the Committee on 24 March 2003 of the Company.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board decision.
Attendance at Board Meetings Under the Articles of Association of the Company, each director Mr J H Ritblat 7 retires at the third annual general meeting after the general meeting Mr D A Higgs 8 at which he was last elected.
Mr C Metliss 7 Mr J H Weston Smith 8 Mr N S J Ritblat 8 Non-executive Directors Mr M J Cassidy 8 The Board considers that Mr Higgs, Mr Cassidy, Mr Swannell, the Lord Mr R E Bowden 8 Burns, Mr Michels and Dr Gibson-Smith are independent non-execMr R W A Swannell 7 utive directors.
Dr Gibson-Smith and Mr Michels are proposed for reThe Lord Burns 8 Mr G C Roberts 8 election by shareholders having been appointed during the year.
Dr C Gibson Smith 2 Their details are set out on page 47.
Mr D Michels 2 There were eight meetings during the year.
Remuneration Policy and Committee Three meetings held since appointment to the Board on 1 January 2003.
Details of the Group remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 46.
As required for Combined Code compliance in companies where the Attendance at Remuneration Committee chairman and managing director roles are combined, there is a clear Mr M J Cassidy 3 division of responsibilities at the head of the Company as shown in Mr D A Higgs 4 the details of directors on page 47, and a strong and independent Mr R W A Swannell 3 The Lord Burns 3 non-executive element on the Board.
The Audit and Remuneration Dr C Gibson Smith 1 Committees are entirely composed of independent non-executive Mr D Michels 1 directors.
The Nomination Committee which is responsible for making There were four meetings during the year.
recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments conThree meetings held during Committee membership to 24 March 2003 sists of the six non-executive directors together with Mr John Ritblat One meeting held since appointment to the Committee on 24 March 2003 and Mr Weston Smith.
Mr Higgs is Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dr Gibson-Smith is the Senior nonInvestor Relations executive director and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private Lord Burns is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
investors and has a proactive approach to its relationship with them.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive will be split not later There is a regular two-way communication with investors and analysts than the time of the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
It is the Boards as well as presentations after the interim and preliminary results and intention to appoint a Chief Executive after a search process consite visits.
ducted by the Nomination Committee, which will include internal and The website www.
com enables all shareholders to external candidates.
Mr John Ritblat will continue as Chairman for a access the results presentations and detailed information on the period after the appointment of the Chief Executive to ensure the Company and its portfolio.
orderly succession and management of the Company.
Shareholders are invited to write in to the Chairman or any other Director and express their views on any issues of concern at any time.
Shareholders can also attend the Annual General Meeting AGM at which they have an opportunity to ask questions and the Chairman presents a review of the results and the current business activity.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees are also available at AGMs to take any relevant questions.
The British Land Company PLC Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Going concern With respect to other services, provided by the auditors the following After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give framework is in place: rise to significant financial exposure, the directors are satisfied that no material or significant exposures exist other than as reflected in these Audit related services the auditors are one of a number of firms 55 financial statements and that the Group has adequate resources to providing audit related services, which include formal reporting continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisition and disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of their office Statement of Directors responsibilities or are best placed to do so, the auditors are selected.
In other The directors are required to prepare financial statements which circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited: comply with the Companies Act 1985 on a going concern basis Tax Advisory The auditors are one of a number of firms that unless inappropriate and which give a true and fair view of the state provide tax advisory services, including the preparation and subof affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the finanmission of tax returns.
The selection depends on who is best suitcial year and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those ed in the circumstances: financial statements, the directors are required to: General Consulting the auditors do not provide general consultancy services except in rare circumstances, and then only after select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: consideration that they are best placed to provide the service and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: that their independence and objectivity would not be compromised.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out on page 69. the financial statements: and The Company employs ATIS REAL Weatheralls formerly prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Weatherall Green & Smith as External Valuers to provide an indeunless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue pendent valuation for accounting purposes of the Groups properties in business.
and their report for the wholly owned properties is produced on page 59.
CB Richard Ellis BV and Jones Lang Lasalle value the Groups The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate overseas properties, FPD Savills value certain residential properties.
accounting records have been maintained and that reasonable proThe instructions to ATIS REAL Weatheralls are in accordance with the cedures have been followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group Appraisal and Valuation Manual of The Royal Institution of Chartered and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Surveyors and appear at page 61.
ATIS REAL Weatheralls do not act The directors are also responsible for the Groups system of in any other material capacity for British Land and their fees for other internal controls, which is designed to meet the Groups particular services are less than 10% of their fees for valuation services.
needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved by the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of Auditors and Valuers changing requirements and best practice.
The Audit Committee meets with the auditors at least three times a year to discuss with them the scope and conclusions of their audit.
The Committee is specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and objectivity of the auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness of the audit.
Attendance at Audit Committee Mr R W A Swannell 2 Mr D A Higgs 2 Mr M J Cassidy 2 The Lord Burns 3 Dr C Gibson Smith 1 Mr David Michels 1 There were three meetings during the year.
Two meetings held during Committee membership to 24 March 2003 One meeting held since appointment to Committee on 24 March 2003 The British Land Company PLC Business Opportunity and Business Risk Management Business Strategy Internal Control British Lands opportunistic but risk-averse strategy seeks to achieve The Companys management structure and internal control enlong-term growth in shareholder value by: vironment is influenced by British Lands nature as an entrepreneurial property company.
As such it is a capital rather than people intensive 56focusing on prime assets in the office and retail sectors: business with assets under management in excess of 11 billion, creating exceptional long-term investments with strong covenants, managed by a Group executive of approximately 60 people.
Entrelong lease profiles and growth potential: preneurial success requires speed of action to catch the moment in enhancing property returns through active management and the markets to buy or sell property, to raise funds on the best terms.
development: and The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound maximising equity returns through optimal financing and joint system of internal control.
The Board continues to apply the internal ventures.
control provisions of the Combined Code through a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the The key to high returns is flexibility, both in terms of business Group faces.
The process has been in place throughout the year organisation and financing to take advantage of shifts in the property from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and market.
is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999.
Risks and Rewards The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control The Company generates profits for shareholders through long-term and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to investment decisions relating to both income and capital growth.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business These decisions include exploiting opportunities arising out of natobjectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurural market volatility with respect to supply and demand imbalance ance against material misstatement or loss.
in the following core areas: The Group applies two fundamental control principles: demand for space from occupiers against available supply including new developments : a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: differential pricing for premium locations and buildings: and alternative use for buildings particularly redevelopment : a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no comdemand for returns from investors in property, compared to other mitments are entered into without competent and proper authoasset classes: risation by more than one approved executive.
price differentials for capital to finance the business: legislative incentives, including planning consents and taxation: In compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board economic cycles, including their impact on tenant covenant quality, continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of interest rates and inflation: and internal control.
The key risks that the group faces and features of mis-pricing of property assets by the equity markets for example, the internal control system that operated throughout the period share buy-backs or opportunistic investments.
covered by the accounts are described below: These opportunities can also represent risks.
Demand for property Identification and evaluation of commercial risks and related and the ability of tenants to pay rent can be affected by general control objectives economic conditions at both a macro and local level.
Excessive British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, levels of supply of property can also lead to falling rents.
Rising which has identified some 50 individual risks that affect the Group.
interest rates may impact the security of the tenant base, lower The responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly development margins significantly and reduce investment appetite.
identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors Property values are also affected by changes in planning, taxes, and senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have technology and lease structures.
Interest rates, bond yields and the close involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the relative attractions of other asset classes also impact property values.
These risks in the UK property sector can be amplified by development exposure and gearing.
The British Land Company PLC Business Opportunity and Business Risk Management Business Opportunity and Business Risk Management Group.
In addition to the main Board of Directors, there are operafuture values and yield prospects as the basis of sell or hold decitional boards which are responsible for specific areas of the Groups sions: benchmarking portfolio performance against peer groups activities.
These include: using IPD statistics: consideration of tenant mix covenant strength across the portfolio: and reviewing insurance cover.
57group management and operations: management of property assets: Property development risk management of development activities: and Principal risks financing activities.
Letting risk for speculative developments: construction cost and time overruns: adverse changes in planning and or planning policy which The Board and the operational boards consider the risk implications may cause delay and affect profitability.
These include matters such as new treasury Principal controls products and major transactions.
The control environment is These include limiting the amount of speculative development: supported by the various committees of the Board and the operassessing letting potential and prospective profitability of developational boards, including the Audit Committee, the Environment and ments prior to commencement of construction: on-going assessSociety Committee and the Derivatives Committee.
The way each ment of development expenditure by quantity surveyors with regular risk is managed within the Group is considered by the Board and the comparisons of costs against budget: and ensuring executives are Audit Committee.
The Group re-assesses these risks on a regular kept up to date with planning policies.
basis to ensure that any risks arising from changes in the Groups operations or the external environment are identified and approTaxation risk priately managed.
The detailed individual risks have been catePrincipal risks gorised into the following areas: The group is exposed to financial risks from increases in tax rates and changes to the basis of taxation including corporation tax, VAT property investment and management: and stamp duty.
property development: taxation: Principal controls management: and These include regular monitoring of legislative proposals and particfinancing.
ipation in discussions with Government directly and through trade bodies to understand and, if possible, mitigate the impact of changes.
In order to provide relevant and timely information to the executives with responsibility for managing risks the Group has the following Management risk key information systems which generate reports as follows: Principal risks The Group is reliant on its small, high calibre team of executives.
a management reporting system which includes regular working capital reports and forecasts: Principal controls operational reporting on property purchases, sales and portfolio These include the assurance that knowledge of all processes and management: and projects is shared by at least two employees: that the group recruits regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
and develops high calibre employees: and that the Board considers succession planning issues.
The nature of the specific risk areas and related controls are as follows: Financing risk Property investment and management risk Financing policy and risk management are dealt with in the Principal risks next section.
Property values may decline and returns not be optimised: uneconomic investments may be made or under-performing properties Monitoring retained: significant tenant defaults may reduce income and propThe Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has erty values: and property insurance may be inadequate.
reviewed the Groups internal controls and the possibility of a need for an internal audit function.
During the year the Group established Principal controls an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has agreed a schedThese include regular reviews of current and future market sentiule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups processes and ment: reviews of each individual property at least two times a year controls to be undertaken.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly including internal and external assessments, considering current and to the Audit Committee.
The British Land Company PLC
