Governance Report The Combined Code reserved to it, which ensures that it takes all The Board is responsible for the governance major strategy, policy and investment decisof the Company, governance being the ions affecting the Group.
In particular it is systems and procedures by which the Compresponsible for mergers, acquisitions, divestany is directed and controlled.
A prescribed ments, risk management and for the develset of rules does not itself determine good opment of Group policies in a number of governance or stewardship of a company.
areas, including health and safety and In fulfilling their responsibilities, the directors social, environmental and ethical issues.
believe that they govern the Company in The Board has adopted a procedure enabthe best interests of shareholders, whilst havling directors to obtain independent professing due regard to the interests of other ional advice, at the cost of the Company stakeholders in the Group including, in where appropriate.
The Board also has accparticular, customers and employees.
In ess to the services of the Company Secretary addition, the policy of the Board is to manwho is responsible to the Board for ensuring age the affairs of the Company in accordthat Board procedures are followed and that ance with the codes of corporate governapplicable rules and regulations are compance and best practice promulgated from lied with.
The appointment or removal of the time to time by the Financial Services Company Secretary is a matter reserved for Authority.
For the year to 31 December 2003 the decision of the Board.
the relevant code is contained within the The Board has established a governance Principles of Good Governance and the framework which encourages all directors to Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of bring an independent judgement to bear on the Combined Code issued by the Hampel issues of strategy, performance, resources, Committee on Corporate Governance in including key appointments, and standards June 1998 the 1998 Code.
code for reporting years beginning on or On appointment, directors are briefed regafter 1 November 2003 is the Combined arding the activities of the Group and the Code issued by the Financial Services Company Secretary ensures that a new Authority in July 2003 the 2003 Code : director has access to appropriate training therefore the Company will measure and or advice in relation to the duties of directors.
report upon its compliance with the 2003 Code when issuing its Annual Report and Chairman and Chief Executive Accounts for the year ending 31 December Separate individuals have been appointed 2004 and subsequent years.
to the positions of Non-Executive Chairman The Board is committed to high standards of and of Chief Executive.
The Chairman is corporate performance.
Throughout the year primarily responsible for the working of the to 31 December 2003 the Company has Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for complied in all respects with the provisions of running the business and for implementing the 1998 Code.
This statement, together with Board strategy and policy.
the Directors Remuneration report on pages 27 to 34, describes the way in which these Senior independent director principles of governance are applied within Mr Boyes is the senior independent director.
The terms of reference of the senior independent director are that his primary duty is to The Board ensure that the views of each non-executive The Board is scheduled to meet eight times director are given due consideration.
Other each year with additional meetings called if duties of the post include the authority to call required.
a meeting of the non-executive directors if The Board has a formal schedule of matters he feels it to be necessary.
Annual Report 2003 23 Governance Report continued Board balance for directors to be fully briefed.
The papers The Board aims to maintain a balance of are sufficiently detailed to enable the direcexecutive and non-executive directors.
The tors to obtain a thorough grasp of the mandirectors have a wide and diverse range of agement and financial performance of the business experience and expertise as their Company and the operating businesses.
There Minutes of meetings are circulated to all are presently four executive and three nonBoard members.
executive directors including the Chairman.
All non-executive directors are independent Appointments to the Board and free from any business or other relationThe Board initially appoints all new directors, ship that could compromise their judgment.
having first considered recommendations made to it by the Nomination committee.
The ECGs and committees Following such appointment, the director is Control of operational matters is delegated required to retire and seek re-election at the to four Executive Control Groups ECGs, one next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of for each of the Cellular Polymers and NonAssociation require that one-third of all direcwovens divisions and two for the Industrial tors retire and seek re-election at each Polymers division.
Each ECG meets bi-monthAnnual General Meeting, and that no direcly and comprises senior executives of the tor serves for more than three years without major businesses within each division.
The being proposed for re-election at an Annual meetings are chaired by the appropriate General Meeting.
executive director and are attended by the Finance Director and the Chief Executive to Appointments to Boards of other companies ensure a strong link between strategy and Certain non-executive directors are also implementation.
directors of other listed companies as set out The Board has formally delegated specific in their respective biographies on page 19. responsibilities to Board committees, includIt is the policy of the Board that executive ing the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination directors should accept appointments to the committees.
Boards of other companies, whether listed or The roles of the Audit and Remuneration unlisted, only with the prior approval of the committees are described on pages 26, 28 Chairman.
The Nomination committee meets on an Shareholders publications and the web ad-hoc basis and considers and makes recThe interim report, the annual report and ommendations to the Board on the composthe Companys website are the primary ition, balance and membership of the Board.
means by which the Board communicates Its members are the non-executive directors, during the year with all the Company's sharetogether with the Chief Executive.
The Board recognises the growing man of the committee is Mr Cotterill.
importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and costSupply of information effectively.
Information about the Company The quality of the contribution that directors, is available 24 hours-a-day, worldwide at particularly non-executives, can make is www.
Financial news releases directly dependent on the quality of the are made available on the site at the same information they receive.
Accordingly, all time as releases through other news channdirectors receive comprehensive information els.
Board papers are normThe directors have a responsibility for the ally distributed at least a week in advance of maintenance and integrity of the website.
the relevant meeting to allow sufficient time Legislation in the United Kingdom governing 24 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com the preparation and dissemination of finananys and the Groups state of affairs as at cial statements may differ from legislation in the end of the financial year, and of the profother jurisdictions.
it or loss and cash flows for the financial year.
The directors consider that, in preparing the Institutional shareholders financial statements, the Group has used There is a planned, ongoing programme of appropriate accounting policies, consistently investor meetings and presentations which applied and supported by reasonable judgetake place throughout the year.
During the ments and estimates.
All applicable accounyear, representatives of the Board met or ting standards have been followed.
had telephone conferences with different The directors have a legal responsibility for funds, representing approximately 63 per ensuring that the Company keeps accountcent of the Company's issued share capital.
ing records which disclose, with reasonable This, together with regular announcements of accuracy at any time, the Companys finansignificant events affecting the Group and cial position and which enable them to updates on current trading, emphasises our ensure that the financial statements comply commitment to keep our investors informed with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors of developments affecting the Group.
The also have a general legal responsibility for Board regards this programme as important taking such steps as are reasonably open to to improve investors awareness of the businthem to safeguard the Groups assets and to ess and for the Board to gain an understandprevent and detect fraud and other irreguling of investors priorities.
The external auditors statement about its The Annual General Meeting reporting responsibilities is set out on page 60.
The Board encourages shareholders to exercise their right to vote at the Annual General Financial reporting and going concern Meeting.
The notice calling the meeting is In presenting the annual and interim financial comprised within the annual report and sepstatements and similar significant publicatarate resolutions are proposed on each subions, the directors aim to present a balanced stantially separate issue.
Presentations are and understandable assessment of the made on the progress and performance of Companys position and prospects.
The the business immediately preceding the directors have adopted the going concern formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders basis in preparing the financial statements.
are encouraged to participate and individThis is based upon a review of the Groups ual directors or, where appropriate, the budget for 2004, the investment programme, Chairman of the relevant committee, resptogether with the available cash, committed ond to their questions directly.
The Chairman and anticipated borrowing lines.
The Board discloses to the meeting the number of proxy also took into account contingent liabilities votes received for and against each resoluand other risk factors as interpreted by the tion following the show of hands on that resGuidance on Going Concern and Financial olution.
Shareholders have the opportunity to Reporting for Directors of Listed Companies talk informally to the directors before and registered in the United Kingdom published after the formal proceedings.
Statement of directors responsibilities Internal control system - for the financial statements evaluating and managing risk The directors are responsible for preparing, in The Board is responsible for the Groups interaccordance with the Companies Act 1985, final control framework and for reviewing its financial statements for each financial year effectiveness.
Throughout the year under which give a true and fair view of the Compreview and up to the date of this report, the Annual Report 2003 25 Governance Report continued Board has operated procedures meeting the final audit team and ECGs: requirements of the Combined Code relating Centralised treasury operations operating to internal control as set out in the Septemwithin defined limits and subject to regulber 1999 guidance Internal Control Guidar reporting requirements and audit ance for Directors on the Combined Code reviews: and produced by the Institute of Chartered Established procedures for planning, Accountants in England and Wales.
Each approving and monitoring major capital year the Board reviews all controls, including expenditure, major projects and the financial, operational and compliance contdevelopment of new business which rols and risk management procedures.
The includes short and long-term budgets, internal control system is designed to manrisk evaluation, detailed appraisal and age, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failreview procedures, defined authority ure to achieve the Companys business levels and post investment performance objectives and can only provide reasonable, reviews.
and not absolute, assurance against material As reported in the Operating and Financial misstatement or loss.
Review on page 13, during 2003 the internal The key features of the internal control control system identified an accounting error system are: in the US Nonwovens business unit.
Further A control environment with clearly defimprovements in the local control environined organisation structures operating ment have been made.
within a framework of policies and procedures covering every aspect of The Audit committee and the auditors the business: The members of the Audit committee are Comprehensive business planning and the non-executive directors, all of whom are financial reporting procedures including independent.
Dr Hopkins is the current Chairthe annual preparation of detailed operman of the Committee.
The Committee met ational budgets for the year ahead and three times in 2003. projections for subsequent years: The Audit committee reviews the internal A regular Board review of key performand external audit activities, monitors compance indicators to assess progress liance with statutory requirements for finantowards objectives: cial reporting and reviews the half-year and Bi-monthly meetings of the ECGs, which annual financial statements before they are include monitoring of risks in the operatsubmitted to the Board.
It also reviews, at ing businesses and assessments of their least annually, the effectiveness of the performance against budgets: Groups internal control systems including A self-certification process, subject to financial, operational and compliance continternal audit, whereby the operating rols and risk management procedures.
It businesses are required to confirm that considers reports from the internal and extthe system of internal control is operating ernal auditors and from management, and effectively: reports and makes recommendations to the A strong internal audit function to provide Board.
independent scrutiny of internal control The Audit committee also keeps under systems and risk management procedreview the scope and results of the external ures: audit, its cost effectiveness, the independAn annual risk assessment exercise involvence and objectivity of the auditors and the ing self-assessment by management of all nature and extent of non-audit services supbusiness risks in terms of impact, likelihood plied to the Group by the external auditors.
and control strength and an objective It seeks to balance the maintenance of challenge of that assessment by the interobjectivity and value for money.
26 For more information on British Vita visit www.
