PAGE 61 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance The Board continues to apply both the Principles of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice contained in the Combined Code of the Financial Services Authority the Code, which applied to the year under review.
This statement explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code.
As stated in previous years reports, the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee have fully considered the recommendations contained in the Code and endorse the general principles contained therein.
Except where described below, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Board of Directors The Board is made up of five Executive Directors, including the Executive Chairman, together with four Non-Executive Directors, three of whom were classed as independent.
The Board meets five times a year to review the Groups financial and operational performance.
The meeting follows a formal agenda which includes matters specically reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board also meets as and when necessary to discuss and approve specic issues.
The Board is supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and a status report containing other financial and operational information about the Group, including an assessment of the business risks and opportunities.
The Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive positions are held by Mr C N Wright and Mr R N L Huntingford respectively and Mr C J C Levison Non-Executive Deputy Chairman was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director during the year under review.
Directors have access to the advice and services of an experienced Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Remuneration Committee The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee are to determine the Companys policy on the remuneration of senior executives and the specic remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
During the year under review, the members of the Remuneration Committee were Mr C J C Levison Chairman, Mr G Howard-Spink and Mr D B Murrell, all of whom were Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets regularly with the Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive to review and agree the remuneration of the Executive Directors and to approve remuneration policies overall for the Group.
The Committee met six times during the financial year.
Full details of the Committee are set out in the Report of the Board on Remuneration on page 64.
Audit Committee Code Provision D. 3.1 provides that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee comprised for part of the year under review of only two Non-Executive Directors, Mr C J C Levison Chairman and Mr G Howard-Spink, both of whom were independent.
Mr D B Murrell was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1st May 2003.
The Committee meets twice per annum to review the interim and full year results and more frequently if required.
Meetings are attended by the external auditors.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee considers appointments to the Board and makes recommendations in this respect to the Board.
During the year under review, the members of the Nominations Committee were Mr C J C Levison Chairman, Mr C N Wright, Mr G Howard-Spink and Mr D B Murrell.
PAGE 62 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance Strategy and Investment Committee The Strategy and Investment Committee sets the strategy for the Groups businesses and approves specic investment and divestment opportunities.
The members of the Strategy and Investment Committee during the year under review were Mr C N Wright, Mr R N L Huntingford, Mr N R A Buttereld, Lisa J Gordon resigned 31st December 2002, Mr C J C Levison, Sir George Martin, Mr G Howard-Spink and Mr D B Murrell.
6 provides that the Directors each submit themselves for re-election every three years.
Although the Company does not comply with this provision, each of the Directors, with the exception of the Executive Chairman, submits himself for re-election on a regular basis in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
One third of the Directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
In view of the Executive Chairmans unique position and significant shareholding in the Company, it has not been deemed appropriate for him to submit for re-election in the past.
However, a resolution conrming Mr Wrights appointment as a Director was put to shareholders at the 2001 Annual General Meeting which was passed.
The Companys Articles of Association require any Director appointed by the Board to seek re-election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
New Articles of Association A resolution is being put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3rd February 2004 to adopt new Articles of Association for the Company which have been drafted to fully comply with the New Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Investor relations The Directors value contact with the Companys institutional and private investors.
Lisa J Gordon who resigned on 31st December 2002, had specic responsibility for investor relations.
Following Ms Gordons resignation, the Board has appointed Harriet Finney as Corporate Communications Director to ensure that the Company maintains its relationship with both private and institutional investors.
Members of the Board meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Directors also welcome the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
New Combined Code The Board has fully considered the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, the Smith Report on Audit Committees and the New Combined Code published in July 2003 which will apply in respect of accounting periods beginning on or after 1st November 2003.
The Board is pleased to confirm that it believes that it complies with the majority of the provisions of the New Combined Code, with the principal exception of the number of independent non-executive directors which are on the Board and, where it does not yet comply, will be taking steps over the next six months to either comply with the New Combined Code or will fully explain to shareholders the reasons for the non-compliance.
Following the Boards review of the Higgs Report, the Smith Report and New Combined Code, it has concluded that Mr C J C Levison can no longer be deemed an Independent Non-Executive Director, despite the fact that both Mr Levison and the Board still remain of the view that Mr Levison continues to act independently.
In view of this, Mr Levison has resigned from both the Audit and Remuneration Committees with effect from 1st October 2003 and is no longer deemed to be the Senior Non-Executive Independent Director.
On that date the Board appointed Mr D B Murrell as Chairman of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees and as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Group.
The Board has delegated the task of searching for a further independent non-executive director to the Nominations Committee which is actively searching for a suitable candidate.
The successful candidate will be appointed to the Board, and both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
PAGE 63 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance Statement of internal controls The Group, as required by the London Stock Exchange, now complies with the provisions of the Combined Code, having previously established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report published in September 1999 and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks to business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss or misstatement of the financial statements.
The system of internal control is properly monitered by the risk management procedures in place and whilst keeping the position under review, the Directors do not believe that there is a requirement to introduce an internal audit function at the current time.
The Directors review the existing risk management processes in place within the various operating businesses and have processes in place in compliance with provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code to document and report on significant areas of business risks and their controls.
Ongoing processes exist for the effective identication, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which have been operating throughout the year under review and up to and including the date of this report.
The key procedures in place to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following: An organisational structure with clearly dened areas of responsibility and delegation of authority: Regular reports to the Directors on the effectiveness of the Groups System of internal controls: The operation of risk management processes in which each business produces a database of key risks facing its objectives, the likelihood of each risk occurring, its impact on nances and image if it were to occur and the procedures in place to manage these risks to the desired level.
This information is ltered to produce a register of the key risks facing the Group and an assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of their controls is made.
These risks and the management thereof are reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Directors on a regular basis: High level controls exercised by the divisional management to give assurance that the detailed financial controls are operating satisfactorily.
The principal high level control is the review of monthly management accounts by the subsidiary managing directors and divisional chief executives and divisional finance directors: Monitoring processes which include detailed written monthly status reports, including an assessment of business risks, prepared by each divisional chief executive together with a programme of regular divisional and senior management meetings, a programme of quarterly formal forecast meetings, the comparison of monthly results against budget and reforecasts, the preparation of a rolling forecast on a monthly basis and the supervisory roles of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director: The close day to day involvement of the divisional chief executives in all the businesses for which they are responsible.
In the case of companies acquired during the year, the internal controls in place in these companies are reviewed against the Groups benchmarks of effective risk management and are integrated into the Groups system of internal control.
In the case of associates and joint ventures, the Directors are provided with sufficient evidence during the year to establish the effectiveness of the system of internal controls operation in these companies.
Going concern The Corporate Governance statement on going concern can be found in the Finance Directors review on page 21.
