Corporate Governance Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code The Company has complied with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice which forms part of the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Board of Directors The Board comprises three executive directors and six non-executive directors.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the Groups management and control systems, with the aim to optimise the long-term growth of the Company.
The Board meets at least six times a year, objectively setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the executive directors, ensuring adequate funding, examining major potential acquisitions and disposals, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
It reviews at least annually the nature and magnitude of matters reserved for its decision.
After each Board meeting the nonexecutives meet without the executive directors and at least twice a year the non-executives meet without the Chairman.
The biographies of all members of the Board are on page 36.
Richard Peskin is non-executive Chairman of the Board, Toby Courtauld is Chief Executive and David Godwin is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board believes that independence is a matter of judgement and conscience but recognises that under the Higgs proposals a former executive director who becomes a non-executive director would be deemed not to be independent.
Richard Peskin, who was formerly Managing Director and executive Chairman of the Board, is, therefore, deemed not to be independent, notwithstanding that two of the three current executive directors have joined the Board since he became non-executive Chairman.
Excluding the Chairman, the Board considers all the other non-executive directors, representing over half the Board, to be independent.
Due to his experience Mr Godwin is a member of each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of board meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and receive training as they see fit.
The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises David Godwin Chairman, Anthony Graham and Richard Peskin, and meets at least twice a year to: consider the need to make new appointments, the nature of the role and the capabilities required for such a role using external advice where appropriate : and review the re-election of non-executive directors.
In the coming year the Nomination Committee will look to formalise the process of evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms but are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every three years.
Under the Articles of Association at least a third of the Board, not including directors appointed during the year, must retire from the Board.
John Edgcumbe and David Godwin will, therefore, be retiring at the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for re-election.
As a result of the requirement of at least a third of the Board retiring, Mr Godwin, who has only served on the board for five years will be beginning a three-year term and, in the opinion of the Board, continues to offer a significant contribution at both Committee and Board level.
Robert Noel, who was previously a director at Nelson Bakewell Limited and who joined the Company on 1 June 2002, became Property Director following Paul Gittenss retirement in July 2002.
Kathleen ODonovan, who was previously Chief Financial Officer of Invensys plc and is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Court of the Bank of England, and a non-executive director at EMI Group plc and the Prudential PLC, became a non-executive director on 1 April 2003.
The Nomination Committee believes that the Board will benefit greatly from the appointment of Miss ODonovan as a nonexecutive director.
On the retirement of Howard Perlin as a non-executive director at the Annual General Meeting this year, Corporate Governance Annual Report 2003 47 Miss ODonovan will take on the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Both Mr Noel and Miss ODonovan were appointed without the involvement of a recruitment consultant.
On appointment, new non-executive directors are provided with a detailed induction pack and are encouraged to meet with senior management.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, currently David Godwin Chairman, John Edgcumbe and Howard Perlin, has responsibility for determining the remuneration, contract terms and other benefits of the executive directors.
The Committee meets at least three times a year to consider and establish Company policy and award bonuses as appropriate, and has access to professional advice outside the Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Howard Perlin Chairman, who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of all three other companies of which he is a non-executive director, David Godwin and Anthony Graham.
It meets at least four times a year and provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors.
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by certain senior executives.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the annual and half-year results, statements and accompanying reports, and monitoring controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and associated services, which, in their position as auditors, they are best placed to undertake, including those related to borrowings, the bonus plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan, and shareholder and other circulars.
The only other services provided by Ernst & Young are tax services, awarded on the basis of efficiencies achieved by performing the audit: all other requirements for specialist property tax consulting are put out to tender.
The Group does not have an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
Internal Controls The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board carries out an annual review of significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues, and the regulatory environment.
Group strategy is updated and reviewed at each Board meeting.
During the course of the year the Group introduced a Policies and Procedures Manual for all employees and reorganised internally to provide clearly defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities.
As the Company has a small number of employees, there is a high level of executive involvement in the majority of transactions.
Copies of the minutes of the Executive Committee, which comprises the executive directors, are circulated to the non-executive directors.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders and fund managers.
The executive directors are the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties but, as Chairman and Senior Independent Director, respectively, Richard Peskin and David Godwin are available as a contact for shareholders.
Independent feedback on presentations by the executive directors to all major shareholders is provided to the non-executive directors on a regular basis.
In his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Godwin also consulted with major shareholders during the year in respect of the proposed terms of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the feedback from which was duly considered by the Remuneration Committee.
48 Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 15 July 2003 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 69 and 70.
Details of the number of proxy votes for and against each resolution will be disclosed at the meeting.
Going Concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
