Corporate Governance A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003, the Company has complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hampel and published in June 1998.
Following publication of the Higgs and Smith reports in January 2004, the Financial Reporting Council revised the Combined Code.
Although the Revised Code is not applicable to the Company for the year under review, the Company has made significant progress in formalising and revising existing policies, documentation and procedures in response to the Revised Code.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities, which include a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, five executive and five non-executive directors who meet not less than ten times during the year.
All directors were present at all meetings of the Board held during the year with the exception of two meetings which F B Charnock, a former director of the Company, was unable to attend, one as a result of absence abroad and one through ill health.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, executive directors and nonexecutive directors are clearly defined.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Hammersons overall strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, risk management, internal control, approval of major capital expenditure projects, treasury and the raising of finance, ensuring appropriate human resources are available and corporate governance.
The procedures and accountability for these matters, which are delegated to management, are set out in the Companys operations and control manuals.
Information is supplied to the Board in a manner which enables the Board to fulfil its responsibilities.
Presentations on business and operational issues are made regularly to the Board by senior management.
All directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks.
The Board and its Committees have, in the past, continuously monitored and evaluated their own performance and the contribution made by individuals.
In particular, the contribution made by each of G F Pimlott and D A Edmonds, who are retiring as nonexecutive directors and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting, has been fully considered by the Board.
The Board has concluded that each of them makes a valuable and positive contribution to the Company.
This process of board evaluation is now being formalised following the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP to facilitate structured evaluation procedures.
The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, with the non-executive directors without executive directors present.
The non-executive directors meet annually without the Chairman in order to appraise his performance and such meetings are chaired by the Deputy Chairman.
All directors have access to independent professional advice and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advice on corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which is reviewed annually.
The Companys directors and officers are adequately insured in line with the guidelines produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are required to submit themselves for election at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
R R Spinney, formerly the Chief Executive, was appointed non-executive Chairman in 1999.
The Board is satisfied that he and the other non-executive directors, each of whom is independent from management and has no commercial or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise independent judgement.
Their experience, gained from varied commercial backgrounds, enables them to make a valuable contribution to the Company.
The Board is also satisfied that G F Pimlotts independence is not compromised by the period he has held the position as a non-executive director of the Company.
R R Spinney holds other positions which are set out on page 6 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that these appointments do not adversely affect his commitment as the Companys Chairman.
G F Pimlott, as Deputy Chairman, acts as the senior independent non-executive director as defined in the Code and is available to shareholders if the normal channels of contact are inappropriate for whatever reason.
The Company has developed an induction programme for non-executive directors.
On their appointment, non-executive directors meet with the Chairman and the Chief Executive who provide briefings on their responsibilities as directors and on the Companys business and procedures.
Non-executive directors also meet with members of senior management who provide further information on the Companys operations including visits to the Companys properties.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions in other companies to broaden their experience.
S R Melliss is a member of the Committee of Management of Hermes Property Unit Trust, the fee payable for which he retains.. 04 Corporate Governance STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal clearly with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on request.
Each of these committees is comprised of non-executive directors of the Company.
Details of these committees are set out below: a Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises G F Pimlott Chairman, J C Clare and D A Edmonds.
All members of the Committee were present on the five occasions on which the Committee met in 2003 with the exception of one meeting which F B Charnock, a former director and member of the Committee, was unable to attend through ill health.
It reviews matters affecting Hammersons internal controls and their effectiveness and, on an annual basis, external audit arrangements including the level of fees and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, the merits of establishing an internal audit function and the provision of non-audit services to the Company by the external auditors.
It also reviews the interim and full year financial statements prior to their submission to the Board, the application of the Companys accounting policies, any changes to financial reporting requirements and such other related matters as the Board may require.
Senior representatives of the external auditors and executive directors may be invited to attend the meetings.
b Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises R J O Barton Chairman, J C Clare and G F Pimlott.
All members of the Committee were present on the five occasions on which the Committee met in 2003 with the exception of two meetings which F B Charnock, a former director and member of the Committee was unable to attend, one as a result of absence abroad and one through ill health.
It reviews the terms and conditions of employment of the executive directors and senior staff.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is given on pages 13 to 18.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive may be invited to attend the meetings.
c Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises R R Spinney Chairman, R J O Barton and G F Pimlott.
All members of the Committee were present on each of the seven occasions on which the Committee met in 2003, other than when their own positions were under review.
It undertakes an annual review of succession planning for senior executives and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of executive and non-executive directors, continues to be appropriate.
This review includes consideration of the balance of skills and knowledge required of both executive and non-executive directors.
In seeking candidates for new appointments, the Committee uses the services of external recruitment agencies.
F B Charnock retired as a director of the Company on 8 May 2003 and ceased to be a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
On that date, R J O Barton became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and D A Edmonds became a member of the Audit Committee.
EXTERNAL AUDITORS The Companys external auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The audit partner responsible for the Companys audit matters is changed in accordance with the current applicable guidance of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee takes into account the safeguards operating within Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Regard is had to the nature of and remuneration received for other services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to the Company and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2003, the auditors remuneration comprised 703,000 for audit work and 101,000 for other work.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the briefing paper on effective communication between audit committees and external auditors issued in September 2002 by the Auditing Practices Board and, having considered the recommendations of the briefing paper with the external auditors, has concluded that the relationship between the Audit Committee and Deloitte & Touche LLP is in accordance with the objectives contained therein.
TRUSTEES OF THE PENSION SCHEME The Companys principal pension scheme, The Hammerson Group Management Limited Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, is administered by two corporate trustees.
One is an independent trustee and the other is a subsidiary of the Company which has five directors, three of whom are employees, but not directors, of the Company.
The Schemes funds are invested and managed independently of the Company.
This scheme is closed to new entrants and a Group Personal Pension Plan has been established for new employees.. 05 Corporate Governance SHAREHOLDERS The Board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to shareholders.
The group implements an investor relations programme whereby the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and other senior executives make presentations to and meet institutional investors following the announcement of Hammersons annual and interim results.
These presentations and the accompanying script are simultaneously posted on the Companys website.
Private shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting and meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in resolutions is announced at the Annual General Meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition, ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, provide reliable financial information and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and regulations.
There is a regular review process throughout the year of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, although any such system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system is designed to manage the achievement of business objectives.
The group has established, and the Board regularly reviews, its risk management procedures and the procedures necessary to enable the directors to report on internal controls in compliance with the Code.
The risk management procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the group, including those relating to joint venture arrangements.
The Board has allocated responsibility for the management of each key risk to executive directors and senior executives within the group who report on these risks to the Board.
Any recommendations arising from such reports and reviews are implemented under the supervision of the Board.
The Company does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
Internal controls reviews are undertaken by a combination of Company employees and external advisers where appropriate.
The need for a dedicated internal audit function is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee which has concluded that the existing arrangements are appropriate.
The other key elements of the groups system of internal control are as follows: Regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee whose overall responsibilities are set out above.
A management structure that is designed to enable effective decision making with clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
An important part of this structure is a twice monthly meeting of the executive directors.
The maintenance of operational control manuals setting out a control framework for management to operate within and containing guidance and procedures for the groups operations.
The measurement of the groups financial performance on a regular basis against budgets and long term financial plans.
The system of internal control and the effectiveness thereof have been reviewed by the Board for the year under review and during the period up to the date of this report and the process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
By Order of the Board S J Haydon Secretary 15 March 2004.
