OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Corporate governance Corporate governance The Combined Code Principles of Good The roles of chairman and chief executive are Directors are provided with training and Governance and Code of Best Practice split and there exists a strong non-executive induction into the responsibilities of a director The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs element on the Board which currently consists prior to, or immediately following, their of the Company in accordance with the of five executive and five non-executive appointment to the Board, if that appointment Principles of Good Governance and Code of is the first occasion that they have been directors.
The Board considers all of the nonBest Practice as set out in Section 1 of the executive directors to be independent.
The appointed to the board of a listed company.
Combined Code annexed to the Listing Rules of Company does not currently have a senior The training needs of directors are reviewed the Financial Services Authority.
The Company independent non-executive director but the periodically to ensure that they are kept up to has complied with Section 1 with the exception Board is currently seeking to recruit additional date on relevant new legislation and changing of the matters set out below.
independent non-executive directors and, upon commercial risks.
the conclusion of this process, intends to Directors appoint a senior independent non-executive Directors remuneration The Board meets at least eight times a year.
Under some definitions, Sir Winfried The report of the Companys remuneration principal task is to formulate strategy and to Bischoff may not be regarded as independent.
committee is on pages 36 to 41. monitor and control operating and financial However the unanimous view of his colleagues performance in pursuit of the Groups strategic on the Board is that, by virtue of his personality, Relations with shareholders objectives.
It operates in accordance with a experience and knowledge of business, he is The Company values dialogue with formal schedule of matters reserved to the robustly independent.
institutional and private shareholders, and the Board for decision.
These matters include chief executive together with the finance property developments, refurbishments, The Board is supplied with comprehensive director hold regular meetings with acquisitions and disposals and significant management information on a regular and institutional shareholders to discuss strategic transactions in excess of 50m, fund raising, timely basis, principally by means of monthly and other issues within the constraints loan repayments and treasury policy.
They also financial and management reports and detailed imposed to ensure the protection of price include the appointment or removal of reviews of medium-term financial projections sensitive information which has not already directors and the company secretary and the every six months.
been made available generally to the introduction of any significant changes to Companys shareholders.
The Board welcomes employee share or pension schemes.
In At present the whole Board acts as a moves towards a more constructive use of addition, an investment committee appraises nomination committee and is responsible for annual general meetings and regards the and, where appropriate, approves funding the selection and approval of candidates for annual general meeting as the principal proposals taking into account key financial appointment to the Board.
However, the Board opportunity to meet private shareholders.
drivers, sensitivities, and project risk is currently reviewing this position in the light In addition meetings are held periodically assessment.
All directors have access to the of the Higgs Report.
with the UK Shareholders Association, a body company secretary who is responsible for representing private shareholders in the UK.
ensuring that Board procedures are complied In accordance with the Companies Acts and the At its annual general meeting, the Company with and who advises the Board on corporate Articles of Association of the Company, all complies with the provisions of the Combined governance and compliance matters.
The Board directors are required to submit themselves to Code relating to the disclosure of proxy has resolved that directors may seek independent shareholders for re-election to the Board at the votes, the separation of resolutions and the professional advice at the Groups expense in first Annual General Meeting following their attendance of committee chairmen.
the furtherance of their duties as directors.
appointment and at regular intervals The Company arranges for the Annual Report thereafter.
Every director is required to stand and related papers to be posted to for re-election every three years.
Nonshareholders so as to allow at least 20 working executive directors are appointed for an initial days for consideration prior to the annual period of three years which is extendable upon general meeting.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 33 Corporate governance Accountability and audit d Systems of control procedures and In addition, the audit committee receives: delegated authorities: there are clearly Financial reporting defined guidelines and approval limits for a Reports from the head of risk management The Board seeks to present a balanced and capital expenditure and disposals, detailed and internal audit on the work carried out during the year, including an annual understandable assessment of the Groups appraisal and authorisation procedures position and prospects, and details are given in and defined, activity-based expenditure summary on the operation of the system of the Chairmans Statement and the Operating authorisation guidelines.
risk management and internal control to and Financial Review.
support the Boards annual statement: and e Risk management: we undertake an Internal control ongoing process of identifying, evaluating b Reports from the external auditors.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system and managing the significant risks faced of internal control and for reviewing its by the Company.
The Board confirms that For the purposes of applying the Turnbull effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to this process has been in place for the year guidance we have not included material joint manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure under review and up to the date of approval ventures and associates as part of the Land to meet business objectives and can provide of the Annual Report.
This process is Securities Group.
We do not have management only reasonable and not absolute assurance regularly reviewed by the audit committee control of any of these joint ventures or against material misstatement or loss.
on behalf of the Board and accords with the associates, but do ensure that appropriate Turnbull guidance.
corporate governance procedures are in place The key features of our system of internal as part of the operating arrangements.
control include: f Review of controls: an assessment based upon a compliance questionnaire is Audit committee a Strategic planning: each business unit must completed twice a year and signed off by The audit committee which consists solely of produce and agree a business plan each senior managers, providing assurances that non-executive directors, is chaired by David year, against which the performance of the controls are both embedded and effective Rough and operates in accordance with written business is regularly monitored.
During the within the business.
The committee meets at year, balanced scorecards have been least four times a year and its functions include prepared that set out targets for a wide g An internal audit function: responsible for the following: variety of key performance indicators.
As reviewing the business processes and part of the balanced scorecards, the Group controls.
Their findings are reported directly seeking to ensure that appropriate accounting and each business unit has set goals, to the audit committee and internal systems and financial controls are in measures, targets and actions in relation to audit follows up implementation of the operation and that the Groups financial risk management.
management actions from all reviews.
The statements comply with statutory and other internal audit function operates on a riskrequirements: b Investment appraisal: capital projects, based approach.
The audit committee on receiving reports from and consulting with major contracts and business and property behalf of the Board reviews the scope of the internal and external auditors: acquisitions and disposals are reviewed in work, authority and resources of the internal detail and approved by the investment audit function on an annual basis.
reviewing the interim and annual results and committee and or the Board.
considering any matters raised by the internal and external auditors: and c Financial monitoring: profits, cash flow and monitoring the scope, cost effectiveness, capital expenditure are closely monitored independence and objectivity of the external and key financial information is reported to audit.
the Board on a monthly basis.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 34 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Corporate governance On 20 January 2003, the Group established by Valuations the Financial Reporting Council and chaired by The Group has for many years given the external valuers, Knight Frank and auditors Sir Robert Smith published its report on the roles and responsibilities of audit committees.
These advisers have a dialogue and exchange of information which is The Board will, in due course, give full consideration to the revised Combined Code.
entirely independent of the Group.
The chairman of the audit committee attends the final valuation meeting as do the auditors Auditors The directors of Land Securities, and our to assure themselves of the independence of external auditors,  LLP, the process.
have for many years had safeguards in place to maintain the independence and objectivity of In line with the Carsberg committee report, we have recently changed the previous ad valorem the audit.
Set out below is our policy on the provision of services by our external auditors: valuation fee arrangements to a fixed fee arrangement.
Audit related services: We will normally retain our auditors to provide related services.
This Non-executive directors Remuneration for the chairman and nonis work which, by the nature of the services required, the external auditors are best placed executive directors is determined by the Board to provide, either because they are required within the levels set in the Articles of Association.
They do not participate in any to do so for regulatory purposes, they have a significant depth of knowledge of the of the Companys share incentive, bonus or pension schemes.
The chairman and nonparticular area of our business or issue, or because the work has a strong relationship to executive directors are currently appointed for the audit itself.
It is likely that certain tax an initial period of three years subject to renewal for further periods and to the rotation work, including support for Land Securities Trilliums bid activities and the work involved provisions under the Articles of Association.
They do not have service contracts with in the acquisition of new contracts, would fall within this category.
General consulting work: significant general consulting work will normally be put out to tender.
We will not generally invite the external auditor to tender for such work.
The auditors may participate in such tenders with the audit committees prior approval.
Approval procedures: senior management approval is required in advance of significant work being undertaken by the external auditors.
Such approvals will be reported periodically to the audit committee.
