Corporate governance The Board are committed to ensuring that The Board Committees During the year, shareholders are kept high standards of corporate governance The Board has the following Committees: informed as to the progress of the are practised throughout the Group to Company through quarterly statements.
The Senior Management Board has been discharge its responsibility to protect and There is regular dialogue with institutional established during the year.
The Senior enhance shareholder value and long-term investors following the publication of Management Board consists of all the financial performance.
Therefore, during quarterly results and at the time of Executive Directors, the Chief Technology the year the Company has continued to significant events, such as acquisitions officer and the Group Commercial Director review its position on corporate and the issue of the Convertible Bond and deals with the on-going day-to-day governance matters, in particular its during the year.
management of the Group, as well as position as regards the new Combined reviewing and making recommendations The Board recognises that not all of the Code and further worked towards full in respect of the Groups operating and Companys private shareholders have the compliance with all areas of corporate strategic policy and investment decisions same regular access to market information.
The Company has been in full to ensure that the long term interests of However, shareholders can raise questions compliance with the provisions of the shareholders, employees, customers and with the Company at any time and the Combined Code appended to the Listing suppliers are considered.
Board uses the Annual General Meeting Rules of the UK Listing Authority the to communicate with private investors with Code since 6 March 2003.
The Remuneration Committee is a business presentation and answering described in the Directors remuneration The Board shareholder questions.
The Company also report on pages 19 to 23.
Since 6 March The Board currently has ten members operates an Investor Relations website, 2003, the Remuneration Committee has comprising the Chairman, the Chief www.
com ir on which it consisted entirely of Independent NonExecutive officer, the Vice Chairman, the publishes all financial and general press Executive Directors and therefore Group Managing Director, the Chief releases and other information about the complied with provision B.
2.2 of the Financial officer, the Chief Operating Company.
However, prior to that officer and four Non-Executive Directors.
date, the Committee had one member In addition, the Company produces both Each Director is required to retire at the who was not considered independent and an Annual Report and Summary Financial first Annual General Meeting after their therefore the Company has not complied Statements, which it believes provides appointment and at the Annual General with provision B.
2.2 of the Code for the information to both institutional and Meeting falling no later than the third full year under review.
private shareholders in the most effective anniversary of their appointment or reway.
The Company makes arrangements appointment.
The Audit Committee comprises three for the report and accounts and notice of Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are Sven Boinet, Brian Collie, Bob Collier and meeting to be dispatched to shareholders independent: Bob Collier is Chairman and Agns Touraine are all considered to be at least 20 working days prior to the its other members are Brian Collie and Independent Directors: Bob Collier is NonAnnual General Meeting and advises Agns Touraine.
Agns Touraine became a Executive Vice Chairman and is shareholders attending the Meeting of the member of the Committee on 28 May considered to be the Senior Independent number of proxy votes in favour and 2003 and Laurent Laffy was a member of Non-Executive Director.
against each resolution as well as the the Committee until 6 March 2003. number who abstained.
All Directors have access to the advice and Meetings are also attended by the services of the Company Secretary and Company Secretary, the Chief Financial Internal control independent professional advice, if officer and the auditors.
The Committee, At 30 September 2002, the Board reported required, and will receive appropriate which meets at least four times a year, has it was in compliance with Internal Control: training as necessary on an ongoing basis.
terms of reference covering the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Companys annual and quarterly Code.
For the year ended 30 September The Board meets for full board meetings reporting, and the auditors involvement 2003, the Board reports on its review of at least nine times per year with additional in that process, focusing particularly on internal control, including the effectiveness ad-hoc meetings convened when compliance, risk management and of identication, evaluation and necessary, such as for the approval of accounting standards.
management of all significant risks quarterly results and transactions.
Prior to affecting the Group.
The internal control each meeting, an agenda and board The Nomination Committee has been procedures have not been changed papers for each agenda item are circulated re-established during the year and is signicantly but have been built upon and to Directors.
The Board retains responsible for reviewing all Board improved throughout the year, taking into responsibility for the strategic direction appointments.
The Committee consists of account the growth of the Company.
and management of the Group, including Allan Leighton, who chairs the Committee, all acquisitions, strategic contracts and Brian Collie and Agns Touraine.
The As expected, the controls in a number of annual budgets.
The Chairman and the Committee has not met during the year the smaller acquired businesses were not Non-Executive Directors have also agreed but all members of the Committee met as mature or robust as required in a public to meet without Executive Directors Sven Boinet prior to his appointment company because they were typically present at least twice a year.
During the as a Director and recommended his small growing entrepreneurial businesses.
year, all the Directors attended every appointment to the Board.
Management has worked on improving meeting with the exception of Allan these controls during the year and believe Relationships with shareholders Leighton, who missed one full board they will be strengthened further as all Communications with shareholders are meeting, and Clive Jacobs, who missed businesses are moved to Oracle in the given high priority to ensure a growing two ad-hoc meetings.
com plc annual report 2003 17 Corporate governance continued The Board has ultimate responsibility for communicated to all employees.
the system of internal control and also for The annual budgetary process and reviewing its effectiveness.
The Chief authorisation levels regulate expenditure.
Executive officer, with the Senior For expenditure above specified levels, Management Board, has day-to-day detailed written proposals are required control over the Groups operations within for review and authorisation.
All guidelines adopted by the Board.
Whilst significant investment decisions are the internal control system is designed to reviewed by the Board.
meet the risks to which the Group is Reviews of both operational and financial exposed, any system of internal control controls are performed throughout the can provide only reasonable and not Group including reviews of cash and absolute assurance against material ticketing controls as well as financial misstatement or loss.
Data protection and The main elements of the Groups system security of information is tightly controlled of internal control are: and guidelines set by licensing authorities are enforced.
Strategic business planning and performance monitoring Internal Audit The business has dened targets, which The Group has a Commercial Internal are agreed by the Board at the beginning Auditor whose role has been to support of each financial year, against which the Board, the Audit Committee and performance is monitored on a monthly senior management in assessing, basis.
The Senior Management Board controlling and monitoring business reviews key performance indicators on a risks and, through effective and efficient weekly basis.
In addition, the Group systems of internal control, to mitigate operates a budgeting and financial against fraud.
Since the year end, the reporting system, with key gures being internal audit work has been outsourced reviewed both locally and on a Group to KPMG to give additional resource basis against budget.
A detailed trading and focus to a fast growing company: report is submitted to the Board at each the relationship is managed from the meeting.
The key countries UK, France, Commercial Risk Department.
KPMG Germany, Italy and Spain are now will report to the Audit Committee on required to report quarterly to the Senior a quarterly basis on the progress Management Board to explain results for being made.
the quarter and assumptions existing in Audit Committee the forecasts for future quarters.
The Audit Committee receives reports Risk management from senior management, the Global Risk The Group has a Global Risk Management Management Team and the Commercial Team whose aim is to provide further Internal Auditor to obtain reasonable assurance and recommendations to the assurance that appropriate control Board on risk and control.
It comprises procedures are in place and are being senior operational and financial adhered to and reports on all these management and holds risk workshops matters to the Board.
The Global Risk The Board have reviewed the Management Team reviews the Groups effectiveness of the Companys internal risk framework using an established control systems considering the processes Internal Control and Risk Management set out above and believe that the actions Policy and Risk Register.
The Global Risk taken during this year and the framework Management Team assesses all identied in place, are sufficient to confirm that the major risk areas at each meeting and, Company has been fully compliant with where appropriate, recommends corrective the requirements set out in Internal action to the Senior Management Board Control: Guidance for Directors on the and to the Audit Committee and Board Combined Code throughout the year where necessary.
Regular action lists ended 30 September 2003 and up to are compiled to mitigate those risks the date of this report.
deemed to be critical to the business at that point in time.
Operating controls The Board is keen to ensure that a formal approach to risk is embedded across all functions of the Group.
The main objectives of The Internal Control and Risk Management Policy have been 18 lastminute.
