10666.01 Pages 22-41 14 04 2004 19:43 Page 26 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and has complied throughout the period under review with the applicable principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code issued in June 1998 the 1998 Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority Listing Requirements, save that the executive directors have rolling service contracts with notice periods of between six months and two years.
The Board believes that service contracts with notice periods in excess of one year are in line with comparable agreements within the industry and reflect the particular contribution and expertise of the executive directors in question.
The new Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 is only effective for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Company will therefore report fully against the new Combined Code next year.
However, the Company believes that its corporate governance procedures already comply with many of the new requirements, as indicated below.
The Board currently has 10 directors, comprising four executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Their biographies illustrate the directors range of experience, which ensures that the Company has an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
All of the current non-executive directors are independent of the management of the Group and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
John Amerman and Lord Hannay who resigned during the year were also independent.
Following the retirement of John Amerman, Robert Lerwill has been nominated as the senior independent director to whom shareholders may convey any concerns in the event that they do not wish to involve either the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly established, being set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman was independent at the time of his appointment and has remained so since.
The Board has a formal induction plan for non-executive directors to ensure that a comprehensive familiarisation programme is in place.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently when business needs require.
One meeting is devoted entirely to the development of the Companys strategy.
The following table identifies the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance record of individual directors.
Committee meetings Board meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
of meetings in year 7432 Lord Sharman 7 2 John Amerman retired 18.09.03 4 2 3 1 Douglas Flynn 7 1 Adrian Chedore 6 Daniel Farrar appointed 02.06.03 4 Bernard Fournier 7432 Lord Hannay retired 28.05.03 2 2 3 1 Jeremy Hicks 7 Bruno Kemoun resigned 05.11.03 4 Robert Lerwill 7 4 2 Eryck Rebbouh resigned 05.11.03 4 Charles Strauss appointed 05.09.03 3 David Verklin 6 Leslie Van fide Walle appointed 02.06.03 4 1 The Chairman holds meetings with the other non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
In 2004, the non-executives, led by the senior non-executive director, have started the process of meeting at least annually without the Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
26 10666.01 Pages 22-41 14 04 2004 19:43 Page 27 Corporate governance continued The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda and the Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including approval of interim and annual results, the dividend policy, approval of all circulars and listing particulars, matters relating to share capital, approval of the annual budget and approval of major capital projects, investments and commitments.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board considers that the Company has in place an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year so that over a three year period all directors will have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
Board committees The Board sets the terms of reference for all board committees which are formally documented and regularly updated.
The main roles and responsibilities of the committees, including the authority delegated to them by the Board, as set out in the terms of reference, are displayed on the Companys website at www.
Audit Committee Following the retirements of Lord Hannay and John Amerman, the Audit Committee now comprises Robert Lerwill chairman, Bernard Fournier and Leslie Van fide Walle.
Robert Lerwill is a chartered accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors attend all meetings.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings.
The Committee chairman has, and also uses, together with the other members of the Committee, the opportunity to meet with the auditors without management present.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee meets three times a year: To review the half-year interim results and the findings of the auditors review and to discuss the scope of the current year full audit To review internal risk management and controls and to consider progress reports from the Group Risk Committee and Group Risk Manager Before the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results, to review the years results and audit findings In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the Committee focuses in particular on: Changes in accounting policies and practices Major judgemental areas Significant adjustments resulting from the audit The going concern assumption Compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code Compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements In addition the Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the external auditors appointment, monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness and developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy applied by the external auditors concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
During the year the Committee involved itself in a number of specific matters including: Conduct of the external auditor review process which culminated in the appointment of new auditors as detailed on page 25 Review and consideration of issues arising from the Smith Committee Report Consideration of, and final agreement with management over, a whistleblowing policy and process for the Group Review of matters undertaken by the Group Risk Committee, including new internal financial control and other risk control processes and procedures 27 10666.01 Pages 22-41 14 04 2004 19:43 Page 28 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Following the retirements of Lord Hannay and John Amerman and the resignation of Bernard Fournier from the Committee during the year, the Remuneration Committee now comprises Charles Strauss chairman, Robert Lerwill and Daniel Farrar and meets periodically as required but not less than twice a year.
It is responsible for overseeing the policy regarding executive remuneration and for determining the remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing incentive schemes for the Group as a whole.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings and the Committee consults him on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and other appropriate senior executives.
He does not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating to him.
Similarly, the Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Committee but may attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee is also empowered to approve awards under the 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Performance Share Plan.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired by Lord Sharman.
The Committee meets as and when necessary and has responsibility for reviewing the board structure, size and composition, and for identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment as directors.
During the year the Committee employed the services of an external recruitment firm to source candidates for the nonexecutive director positions that were filled during the year.
Internal control and risk management The Group operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the 1998 Code and the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and any significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
In 2003 an executive committee the Group Risk Committee was instituted to manage and monitor the Groups risk and control processes and procedures.
The members of the committee include the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Risk Manager.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings and of the Group Risk Committee meetings to the Board and the Board also receives the minutes of the meetings of both committees.
The key procedures which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts are as follows: a The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The full Board meets regularly and, as noted above, has adopted a schedule of matters which is required to be brought to it for consideration, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective supervision over appropriate controls.
The Groups strategic direction is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer, together with the executive directors, consider the strategy for the individual businesses.
b The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by the executive directors and reviewed by the Board in the light of the Groups overall objectives.
The division of responsibility at Board level is achieved by the appointment of a non-executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
Management of the Groups day-to-day activities is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors and they review on a regular basis any significant risks which the business faces.
c Each operations chief executive officer is responsible for: i the conduct and performance of their business: ii ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in place: iii meeting defined reporting timetables and ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and controls: and iv signing-off their accounts on a monthly basis subject to the limitations set by the annual business strategy and the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board.
28 10666.01 Pages 22-41 14 04 2004 19:43 Page 29 Corporate governance continued d The Board receives, on a monthly basis, financial results from each business and the Group reports bi-annually to shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
e The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of non-executive directors, reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group and receives reports from the Group Risk Committee, the Group Risk Manager, the Chief Financial Officer, Group Finance and the external auditors on a regular basis.
f The internal financial control system is reviewed by Group Finance which operates on a global basis and reports to management and the Audit Committee.
Group Finance, the Group Risk Manager and the external auditors co-ordinate their work to the extent necessary for the external auditors to express their audit opinion on the Groups report and accounts.
g There is a clearly defined framework for approving all acquisitions, new and renewing leases and major capital projects and expenditure within the Group.
During 2003 the following matters were implemented to further strengthen the control infrastructure: Publication of a detailed set of high level Group Principles and Policies A manual has been produced and distributed to all Group senior management.
The manual formally collates, in a single document, policies that apply throughout the Group and which address legal, financial, IT, personnel and other areas of risk.
An employee version of the manual has also been issued around the Group via the Companys intranet site.
Creation of the Group Risk Committee The Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Risk Manager, senior representatives of key Group functions and a senior representative from each of Aegis Media and Synovate.
The Committee meets regularly and reports to the Audit Committee.
The principle roles of the committee are to define the Groups risk appetite, to oversee the management of risk and to receive and analyse reports on the status of the internal controls.
Appointment of a risk manager A Group Risk Manager has been appointed.
The role of the Group Risk Manager is to develop policies and procedures and to manage the risk self assessment program and the internal control peer reviews, together with other activities as directed by the Group Risk Committee.
Introduction of a formal Risk Self-Assessment system A formal risk self-assessment system has been introduced that uses an on-line questionnaire and will be used twice each year.
It requires every business unit CEO to report, for each of the Groups key risks, the status of internal control and risk management within their operation.
The results are analysed by the Group Risk Committee.
Extension of the existing Internal Control Peer Review process The existing peer review process has been revised so that the reviews take place at higher risk locations within the Group and each review assesses the controls over the Groups key risks.
The plan and the results are reported to the Group Risk Committee.
A separate project determined the Groups initial key risks.
Implementation of a whistleblowing process Following careful consideration arrangements have been introduced which allow employees, in confidence, to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Group does not have a formal Internal Audit team and there are no current plans to introduce one.
Management is satisfied that the existing processes and procedures as outlined above support this conclusion.
The Board remains committed to reviewing this position, with the Audit Committee, annually.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and that there are ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Going concern Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
29 10666.01 Pages 22-41 14 04 2004 19:43 Page 30 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Good relations with shareholders are of prime importance to the Company.
Formal presentations are made to institutional investors and brokers analysts after the release of the Groups interim and final results.
Individual meetings are held during the year to ensure that the strategies and objectives of the Company are well understood and the larger institutional investors are offered the opportunity to meet with newly appointed non-executive directors.
The Board receives regular briefings from the Companys brokers giving views on shareholder perceptions and is considering what further steps it might take to improve its understanding of shareholder issues.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to address questions to the Chairman or the Board directly including the chairmen of the Board Committees.
Shareholders may also discuss any issues on an informal basis following the conclusion of the Meeting.
Published information, including press releases, is available on the Aegis website www.
John Ross Company Secretary 31 March 2004 30
