London Merchant Securities plc 28 Corporate Governance The Company has complied with the Principles and Provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31st March 2003.
The Board The Board has nine directors, four executive and five non-executive, their details and experience are set out on page 64.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent as they neither represent a major shareholder group nor have any significant involvement in the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Board holds regular meetings and has a number of matters reserved for its approval, including major investment expenditure, financing matters and dividend policy.
The Board and its committees are provided with full and timely information to enable them to discharge their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice is available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
The committees of the Board, each of which has clear terms of reference, are: Remuneration Committee membership comprising, Mr P J Grant Chairman, Mr G C Greene, Mrs J fide Moller and Mr D Newell: Audit Committee membership comprising, Mr D Newell Chairman, Mr P J Grant, Mr G C Greene and Mrs J fide Moller: Nomination Committee membership comprising all directors and chaired by Mr G C Greene.
The Board ensures that all new directors are sufficiently apprised of the Companys business and their duties as directors.
Mr P J Grant is the senior independent director on the Board.
Remuneration policy Details of the Groups remuneration policy is given in the Directors Remuneration report on page 30.
Relations with shareholders The Company has regular meetings with its institutional shareholders and the Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the opportunity to put questions to the entire Board.
The balance of proxy votes cast for or against each resolution is indicated after the resolution has been dealt with under a show of hands.
All substantial issues including adopting the report and accounts are proposed at the Annual General Meeting as separate resolutions.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company complies with the Combined Code to give at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Directors responsibility statement The Statement of the directors responsibility to prepare financial statements required by provision D. 1.1 of the Combined Code is given on page 27.
Going concern After making enquires, the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of this annual report and accounts, there has been a process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee and accords with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
In discharging its duties in respect of the Directors Responsibility Statement and Internal Controls, the Board has received reports from the Audit Committee.
The activities of the Audit Committee are explained opposite.
London Merchant Securities plc 29 Audit Committee Responsibility The Audit Committees responsibility is: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements: To review the Groups internal financial control system and risk management systems: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditor: To monitor and review the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and To develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the audit firm.
Membership The membership of the Audit Committee is noted on page 28.
Lord Remnant was Chairman of the Audit Committee until his retirement from the Board.
Mr D Newell was appointed Chairman with effect from the meeting on 19th November 2002.
Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Board and details of their experience is given on page 64.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that it has sufficient resources both internal and external available to discharge its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is a matter for the Board and the remuneration policy on directors fees is stated on page 30.
Financial statements The Audit Committee has reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the Groups financial statements including significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and judgements.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the clarity and completeness of disclosures in the financial statements and considered whether the disclosures made were set properly in context.
The review of the financial statements also included a review of the financial review, operating review and corporate governance statements relating to audit and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered the significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and judgements.
Internal financial control and risk management systems Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks in the business together with the design and operation of a suitable system of control to manage those risks.
Management is also responsible for ensuring that the risk profile of the business is kept under continuous review and that significant changes in the business or the external environment which affect the risk profile are identified and acted upon.
The Audit Committee has a responsibility to review the Groups internal financial control system and risk management system and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
To enable it to do this, the Audit Committee reviews the risks identified and the system of control in place to manage those risks.
It gives consideration in particular to the following: A review of the inherent risks in the business which have been identified by management: The appropriateness of the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: The effectiveness of managements response to the significant risks which have been identified: A review of risk monitoring and reporting procedures in place: The Group policies and employee procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
As part of its reporting, management provides the Audit Committee with risk indicators and recommendations for improvement in the system of risk management.
The Audit Committee present their findings of the reviews to the Board as appropriate.
External audit The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are objective and independent of the Group and that the procedures adopted on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors provide adequate protection of the auditors independence.
The auditors do perform non-audit services for the Group as described below but the Audit Committee is satisfied that their objective is not impaired by such work.
Internal audit The Company does not have an internal audit function and the Committee reviews annually the requirement for such a function.
