Corporate governance statement 1 Compliance statement The Board is aware that Computacenter does not presently The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Code, which requires governance throughout the Group and supports the principles that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should and provisions set out in the revised version of the Combined comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Code of Corporate Governance.
Other than where detailed in continues to progress towards compliance on this matter, this report, the Company has throughout the financial year having appointed three new independent Non-Executive complied with the provisions of the current Combined Code Directors since January 2002. of Corporate Governance the Code.
There were eight scheduled Board meetings during 2003 2 Board of Directors and further meetings were held as required.
The Board comprises eight Directors: three Executives and five Non-Executives.
Three of the Non-Executive Directors, Nick The Board has a documented schedule of matters reserved Cosh, Ghislain Lescuyer and Cliff Preddy, are independent and to it for decision, including the approval of major capital are free from any business or other relationship which could expenditure and the agreement of strategy and budgets.
materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
Nick All Directors have access to the services of Alan Pottinger, Cosh is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ghislain Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Lescuyer was appointed to the Board on 19 January, 2004.
Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with, and that the Board is kept The Directors biographies appear on pages 22 to 23. advised of all governance matters.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues considered Ron Sandler, an Executive Director, is Chairman of the Board at Board meetings and, to enable them properly to discharge and Mike Norris is the Chief Executive.
There is a clear division their duties, all Directors receive accurate and clear information of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the in a timely manner.
This includes detailed briefings on all management of the Groups day-to-day activities, with the matters where the Board is required to make a decision or Chairman being responsible for the former and the Chief give its approval, together with regular reports on such issues Executive the latter.
No individual has unfettered powers of as the trading performance and outlook.
Specific business decision and no one individual or small group of individuals presentations from senior management and others are dominates the Boards decision-making processes.
The Board given where appropriate, thereby ensuring the Directors believes that it oversees the Group effectively and is led by continually update their knowledge of and familiarity with the Chairman, who is responsible for setting its agenda and the Group.
Directors are entitled, at the Companys ensuring its effectiveness.
expense, to obtain independent professional advice where they believe it is important to the furtherance of their duties.
An appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained Insurance cover is arranged in respect of legal action against through the number and calibre of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman facilitates the contribution of all Directors and is responsible for ensuring that constructive relations The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors exist between them.
The Board sets strategic aims for the without the Executives present at least once a year.
The Company and makes sure that the necessary financial and Non-Executives also meet without the Chairman to appraise human resources are in place to achieve its objectives.
responsible for reviewing the performance of management.
Each year excluding those Directors retiring and not seeking The Directors set appropriate values and standards, ensuring re-election and those retiring following their appointment during that obligations to shareholders and others are understood and the year, the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third met and that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes of the Directors retire by rotation.
In addition, all Directors must place.
A framework of prudent and effective controls exists to retire by rotation every three years and those Non-Executive enable risk to be assessed and managed.
Directors who have served for more than nine years are required to offer themselves for re-election annually.
The Board is aware of the requirement, under section A.
6 of the Code, to undertake formal performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
Appropriate procedures for such evaluations are presently being assessed and will be introduced during 2004.
24 Computacenter plc Principal Board Committees Remuneration Committee The Board has delegated certain duties to three committees, Chairman: Cliff Preddy the main responsibilities and composition of which are as The Remuneration Committee, which met twice during 2003, follows: comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to the Committee on 19 January, Audit Committee 2004.
Prior to this appointment the Committee did not include Chairman: Nick Cosh three independent Non-Executive Directors, which is contrary The Audit Committee met four times during 2003.
Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden the year, Peter Ogden, a non-independent Non-Executive attend the Committee meetings as requested.
Ron Sandler Director, served as a member of the Committee and as a result, attends meetings but absents himself when his own its composition did not comply with provision C. 3.1 of the remuneration is considered.
The Committee determines the Code.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to the Committee on Companys general policy on executive remuneration and the 19 January 2004 and Peter Ogden will resign on 4 May 2004, specific packages for the Executive Directors.
The Committee at which time the Committee will comprise three independent also monitors and reviews the terms and conditions of the Non-Executive Directors and will comply with the Code.
The Executive Directors service agreements, determines the grant Chairman, Group Finance Director and the external auditor of share options to them and senior employees, and appoints attend all meetings.
The Committee assists the Board in any consultants used in assessing their remuneration.
The fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing a wide range of matters Committees terms of reference are regularly reviewed by including the Groups annual and interim financial statements the Board to ensure that its activities comply fully with the and accompanying reports to shareholders, the preliminary provisions of the Code and in particular that there is a formal announcement of results and any other announcement and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive regarding financial performance.
In addition, it reviews and remuneration and for fixing the remuneration packages of advises the Board on the scope, cost-effectiveness and individual Directors.
result of the audit and the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The volume of non-audit services provided 3 Directors remuneration by the external auditor is also reviewed in advance by the The principles and details of Directors remuneration are Committee to ensure objectivity, independence and value contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 31. for money.
The Committee monitors the integrity of internal financial information controls and risk management systems.
4 Relations with shareholders It also reviews reports presented by the Internal Audit and The Executive Directors have regular contact with institutional Risk and Insurance Departments regarding significant shareholders except during close periods and dialogue operational risks and controls to ensure that the latter are with shareholders generally is accorded a high priority.
In addition, the Committee reviews arrangements for The Chairman arranges for the Directors to receive regular answering staff concerns, should they arise, over improprieties, reports on shareholders views to ensure the Board develops ensuring that procedures are in place for appropriate an understanding of matters of concern to the major investigation and follow-up.
Nick Cosh, as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is available to answer any shareholder concerns that Nomination Committee are unable to be resolved through regular channels.
In addition Chairman: Ron Sandler to mandatory information, a full and balanced explanation of The Committee meets as required during 2003 it met twice the business of all general meetings is sent to shareholders.
and comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors The Board welcomes the attendance of individual shareholders and the Chairman.
Ghislain Lescuyer was appointed to at general meetings and the opportunity to communicate the Committee on 19 January 2004.
The Committees with investors and address any questions they may have.
responsibilities include leading the process for Board Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have been appointments, reviewing the Board composition, skills, passed on a show of hands, and proxies for and against each knowledge and experience, and nominating candidates resolution together with any abstentions are announced at for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors on the such meetings.
basis of merit and objective criteria.
It also ensures that the procedures for the appointment of new Directors are formal, rigorous and transparent and that there is an orderly succession for appointments to the Board and senior management.
The Committees Chairman is not an independent Non-Executive Director and as a result this does not comply with provision A.
Computacenter plc 25 Corporate governance statement continued 5 Accountability and audit Risk management The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and Specialist departments monitor developments and ensure reviewing the Groups systems of internal control, ensuring they compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements.
A are prudent and robust, and enable risks to be assessed and comprehensive risk management programme is monitored managed.
Systems are designed to manage rather than and developed by the Risk Committee comprising key operational eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and managers.
Through a programme of assessment, appropriate can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance measures and systems of control are maintained.
Detailed against material misstatement or loss.
contingency plans are in place or being developed for all key sites.
The system of internal control is designed to continuously Capital expenditure and investments identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to Group.
Key elements of the system are as follows: ensure that capital expenditure is properly appraised and authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed Management structure and approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects The Board has overall responsibility for making significant are subject to approval by the Board.
The Executive Directors, together with a number of senior managers, constitute the Group Executive Centralised treasury function Committee, which meets on a regular basis to discuss day-toAll cash payments and receipts are managed by centralised day operational matters.
Separate Executive Committees have accounting functions within each of the operating companies.
been established for each of the Groups operations in the UK, Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group Finance France and Germany.
A flat reporting structure is maintained Department ensures the position of the Group as a whole is across the Group with clearly defined responsibilities for properly controlled.
Quality and integrity of staff Control environment The suitability of staff is determined through rigorous The Group operates authorisation and approval processes recruitment procedures.
Management continuously monitors that are an integral part of its operations.
Access controls training requirements and annual appraisal procedures are in exist where processes have been automated to ensure the place to ensure that required standards are maintained.
Management information systems have been Resource requirements are identified by managers and developed to identify risks and to enable assessment of the reviewed by the relevant national Executive Committee.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced, and the further scrutiny of costs and revenues 6 Board review of internal control encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer The Directors confirm that a sound system of internal control satisfaction and profitability.
is maintained and that procedures were in place to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group Budgetary process throughout the year under review and up to the date of A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These include: and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored through a rigorous and detailed reporting system consideration of regular reports presented by the Internal through which monthly results are compared to budgets.
Audit Department, external audit and operational The results and explanations for variances are regularly and management: routinely reported to the Board.
Appropriate action is taken regular review of financial and management reports and where variances arise.
information: consideration of actions taken by management to address any issues identified: consideration of the results of reviews on Group risk and control.
26 Computacenter plc The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed the work of Internal Audit towards those areas of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
The Committee approves a rolling audit programme, ensuring that all significant areas of the business are independently reviewed within a three-year period.
The programme, and the findings of the reviews are continually assessed to ensure they take account of the latest information and, in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department and the Companys risk management programme is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
In addition, all major risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee and by key managers across the Group and are recorded in a risk register, which is updated regularly.
Overall, the Board is satisfied that the risks identified by the system of internal control are being managed appropriately.
Ron Sandler Chairman Computacenter plc 27
