corporate governance Best Practice in Corporate Governance Relations with shareholders The Board supports best practice in corporate governance and confirms As at 30 September 2003, the company had 33,378,527 shares in issue, that the group complied throughout the financial year with the provisions 86% of which were held by institutions and corporate shareholders with of The Combined Code: Principles of Good Governance and Code of the remainder being held by private shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations which includes formal presentations Board of directors and committee structure in London, Edinburgh and Glasgow, of both the companys full year The Board is responsible for the groups operations and currently and interim results by the executive directors.
Meetings also take place comprises the Chairman: the Deputy Chairman who is also the senior between institutional investors, analysts and senior management on independent director: the Chief Executive and two other executive a regular basis and there is regular communication with shareholders directors: and five other independent, non-executive directors.
through the Annual and Interim Reports.
The non-executive directors bring strong, independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Boards The Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by all deliberations.
The Board has access to the advice and services of directors, gives those institutional and private shareholders attending, a full-time, experienced Company Secretary appointed by the Board the opportunity for communication.
Shareholders present are and independent professional advice may be taken at the companys encouraged to ask questions both during and after the conclusion expense by the directors as required.
Appropriate insurance cover is of the meeting.
It is also the companys practice to write to all in place in respect of legal action against the directors.
All directors are shareholders following general meetings of SRH.
subject to re-election every three years.
The Board met seven times Up to date information on the groups activities can be found on the during the year.
com and more information on individual group The Board has in place a number of key procedures designed to ensure companies can be found on their respective websites, the addresses that management responsibilities are clear.
Executive directors regularly for which are listed on pages 56 and 57. distribute relevant information and key financial reports to the Board Consistent with its obligations under the Listing Rules of the Financial in advance of each meeting, together with other papers required to Services Authority, the company makes announcements to the London facilitate proper consideration of business issues.
A List of Matters Stock Exchange from time to time.
Such announcements may be Reserved for Decision of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board accessed through http: moneyworld.
com and a copy is also held by directors of all subsidiary companies, across the groups two operating divisions.
Decisions on the granting Share prices of companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange may of guarantees and indemnities to third parties: borrowing: capital be accessed via www.
com expenditure in excess of 100,000 and material contracts are amongst those taken by the Board whilst the management of operating Internal control companies have a schedule detailing their responsibilities.
Training The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the groups system of is provided for first time directors and as required thereafter.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The control structure it has established is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk The Audit Committee currently comprises Hamish Grossart, Andy of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable Irvine and Sandy Orr who chairs the meetings.
The Committee met and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
three times during 2003 to review the half year and full year results The Board confirms that it has established procedures to enable it to and to consider accounting policies and aspects of risk management comply with the Turnbull guidance on internal control and has in place and internal control in accordance with its written terms of reference.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the The Committee has also met with the companys external auditors significant risks faced by the group.
without the presence of executive directors.
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the The Remuneration Committee comprises Hamish Grossart, Sunny system of internal control in compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Crouch, Jamie Matheson and is chaired by Lord Gordon.
The Combined Code include the following: Committee is responsible for advising the Board on the remuneration of executive directors.
Its purpose is to ensure that the remuneration Identification and monitoring of risks of executive directors and senior management which is made up The Audit Committee of the Board reports the outcome of its meetings of basic salary, benefits and incentives, together with terms and to the Board who receive copies of all Audit Committee minutes.
conditions of employment, is sufficient to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required to ensure the continued success The Board receives and reviews risk analyses prepared by of the business.
Richard Findlay also joins the Committee except management which identify the key risks facing the group on a when it is discussing matters affecting him.
divisional basis, the probability of those risks occurring, the estimated impact if they do occur and how these risks are being managed.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Gordon and Reports are also received from the external auditors who consider comprises the Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Committee controls only to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth meets as required to select and propose to the Board potential new and fairness of the financial statements.
It also makes recommendations to the Board and from time to time considers and reports to the Board.
The Board recognises that the continuing success of the group requires compliance with the terms of its broadcast licences, attention to meeting The Chief Executives Committee comprises the three executive the aspirations of listeners, readers and advertisers, extremely careful directors and the Deputy Chairman.
This Committee meets on an attention to the achievement of annual revenue budgets, continuing ad hoc basis in order to review potential business opportunities cost control and the proper exercise of an appropriate degree of risk and other business proposals.
26 srh annual report and accounts 2003 Control environment Revised combined code The group seeks to ensure proper risk management and internal control Whilst the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance applies systems through the implementation of various policies, procedures and to reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, the guidelines.
Each of our operating companies has its own managing directors are currently reviewing the extent to which any of the groups director or station manager and financial controller, together with nonexisting corporate governance arrangements require amendment.
All managing directors have Notwithstanding that technically the new Combined Code does not expense guidelines and a note of those matters which are reserved to apply to the group until the financial year commencing 1 October 2004, the SRH Board.
In addition, the financial controllers all have group the directors intend that any amendments required to existing corporate procedures manuals which are subject to constant revision and which governance procedures will be dealt with during the year ending are currently being honed to ensure complete applicability for all 30 September 2004.
We intend to consult widely with major companies in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
There are divisional financial controllers for each of radio and press and Going concern both report regularly to the Finance Director as well as maintaining After making enquiries, the directors have concluded that the group has regular contact with the other financial controllers within their respective adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements.
Corporate information systems All subsidiary Boards are responsible for the performance of their Statement of directors responsibilities respective company in conjunction with the group executive directors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for and management reporting structures are in place to enable effective each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs and efficient communications.
Subsidiary companies prepare their own of the company and the group and of the profit or loss for that period.
detailed financial budgets each summer in respect of the following In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: financial year, which include proposed capital expenditure.
These are approved by that companys Board and thereafter the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: implications of these budgets are carefully considered by the SRH make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Board.
Performance targets are additionally reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
Monitoring of actual performance against the state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, annual target is carried out by monthly reporting of revenue and subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the expenditure, and comparison with annual budgets.
The Boards of financial statements.
subsidiary companies, together with the SRH Board, play a key role in The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records monitoring such information.
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that the financial Internal audit statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general With the appointment in the previous financial year of a group Finance responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to and Internal Control Manager, the Board introduced an internal audit safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and function making use of the existing finance resources already in place.
The results of all audits performed are reported to the Finance and Internal Control Manager, who collates all group results into a summary report for the Audit Committee.
In addition to the obvious benefits, it is hoped that group finance staff will develop through exposure to other companies and working practices.
Non audit fees paid to external auditors The group has established a policy aimed at safeguarding auditor independence by avoiding conflicts of interest.
The group does not impose an automatic ban on the groups auditor undertaking non-audit work: rather the group recognises that the auditors significant depth of knowledge of the groups affairs and activities means that they are best placed to carry out certain non-audit and tax services thereby obtaining value for money for the group.
Examples of such services would include work in connection with acquisitions and disposals, regulatory reports, tax compliance and certain tax consultancy.
Under the groups policy, however, auditors are prohibited from performing services where they may be required to audit their own work or participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by management.
In addition, there are financial limits in place in relation to non audit services such that where the estimated fee for a particular project or category of work is likely to exceed a predetermined level, prior approval of the audit committee requires to be obtained.
The group formally reviews non audit fees and confirms auditor independence annually.
