Audit committee report The Audit Committee the Committee is established under terms of Meetings reference approved by the Board.
The Committee has met five times during the year ended 30th September Principal Responsibilities 2003.
The Finance Director and representatives of the external auditors have been invited to attend each meeting.
The Committee considers some The principal responsibilities of the Committee, set out in its terms of items of business without one or both of these invited parties present as reference, are as follows: appropriate.
-To consider the appointment and independence of the external auditors and make appropriate recommendations to the Board: Main activities of the CommitteeTo recommend the audit fee to the Board and approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors: In the year under review the Committee has undertaken: -To discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of their audit - Detailed reviews of published annual and interim financial information and quality control procedures and review their management letter including consideration of the appropriateness of accounting policies presented at the completion of the audit: and material assumptions and estimates adopted by management: -To consider whether there is a need to establish an internal audit - Reviews of managements reports to the Board on risk management and function and make a recommendation to the Board: internal controls and the Companys public statements on these matters: -To review the executive managements reports on risk management and - Reviews of the risk and control strategies of the Companys principal the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control and financial managing agents: reporting: - A review of the performance and independence of the external auditorsTo review and report to the Board on any financial information to be concluding in a recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of published by the Company.
the auditor by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting: The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and up-dated by the - Monitoring fees paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit Board in November 2003 and are available on the Companys web site.
services and considering the impact of such fees on the independence of the audit opinion: - A review of the need to establish an internal audit function: Membership - Monitoring developments in accounting and reporting requirements The Committee comprises solely of independent non-executive Directors.
and particularly the impact of International Financial Reporting P J Manser has chaired the Committee throughout the period since Standards to be applied from 2005.
Other members of the Committee during this period were N W Benson until his retirement from the Board on 22nd January 2003, J R K Emly and A W MacDonald.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
On behalf of the Board P J Manser and N W Benson are Fellows of the Institute of Chartered P John Manser Accountants in England and Wales.
J R K Emly is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
Audit Committee Chairman 2nd December 2003 Page 30 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
