Corporate governance The Board of Directors is responsible to shareholders for the management In addition to formal board meetings, non-executive Directors meet and control of the Companys activities and is committed to high standards informally during the year.
Arrangements are being put in place to provide of Corporate Governance.
The Board confirms that the Company has for at least two formal meetings of non-executive Directors each year which complied with the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate will include a regular appraisal of the performance of executive Directors.
The application of the principles contained All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for in the Combined Code is described below.
ensuring that Board procedure, corporate governance, statutory and Following the publication of the revised Combined Code in July 2003, compliance obligations are met.
Directors may seek independent professional the Board is reviewing and amending existing corporate governance advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties as Directors.
arrangements and implementing new procedures, where appropriate, The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance.
to reflect the new Codes recommendations.
In October 2003, cover was increased from 2 million to 5 million.
The Board has established three committees to deal with specific aspects The Board of Directors of the Companys affairs.
The terms of reference of these committees were The Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, four executive reviewed and up-dated in November 2003 and are available on the Directors and three independent non-executive Directors following the Companys web site.
retirement of N W Benson on 22nd January 2003 during the year under review.
Other than the Chairman who had previously been an executive Audit Committee Director each non-executive Director is considered to be independent of The Audit Committee comprises P J Manser as Chairman, J R K Emly and the executive team and free from any business or other relationship which A W MacDonald.
N W Benson was a member of the Committee until his could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
retirement from the Board on 22nd January 2003.
Each of the executive Directors is a member of a recognised professional The Committee has met four times during the year ended 30th September body and is expected to act in accordance with the ethical principles of the 2003.
The Companys auditors and executives have attended by invitation.
The non-executive Directors are of high calibre and contribute The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to monitor the wide-ranging business and financial experience to the Boards decision framework of financial controls and review published financial information.
The Board considers that the present balance between In addition, it advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors executive and non-executive Directors allows it to exercise objectivity in and their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work.
decision-making and proper control of the Companys business.
A report by the Audit Committee is set out on page 30.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on page 18 to 19.
P J Manser has been senior non-executive Director throughout the year.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at the Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter at The Remuneration Committee comprises J R K Emly as Chairman, three yearly intervals.
N W Benson was a member of the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are split.
The Chairman is Committee until his retirement from the Board on 22nd January 2003. responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and The Committee has met five times during the year ended 30th September setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for the 2003.
The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to consider the management of the Companys day-to-day operations.
employment terms and remuneration of executive Directors.
Proposals in The Board has met five times during the year ended 30th September respect of matters relating to Directors remuneration are submitted to the 2003.
Its function is to formulate strategy and monitor and control Board for approval before implementation.
This is achieved through the regular A report by the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 25 to 29. review of operations and detailed reports on activity within the Companys property portfolio, quarterly financial reporting and budget up-dates, and regular reviews of risk and internal controls.
In addition to Board Nomination Committee meetings, there is regular communication with non-executive Directors to The Nomination Committee comprises P L Levy Chairman, J R K Emly, ensure they are fully aware of all aspects of the Companys operations.
N W Benson was a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board on 22nd January 2003.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision which includes, inter alia, approval of all investment property acquisitions No meetings of the Nomination Committee were convened during the and disposals, refurbishment and property management strategies and all year ended 30th September 2003 but one meeting has been held since significant aspects of finance.
The schedule of matters reserved for the that date.
The Committee is responsible for the selection and nomination Board was reviewed and up-dated in November 2003 and is available on of candidates for directorship and in addition advises the Board on the the Companys web site.
orderly succession for appointment of Directors.
Page 23 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance continued Attendance at Meetings Directors attendance at meetings at Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 30th September 2003 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Executive Directors J S Lane 5 5 - - - - - - B Bickell 5 5 - - - - - - S J Quayle 5 5 - - - - - - T J C Welton 5 4 - - - - - - Non-Executive Directors P L Levy 5 5 - - - - - - P J Manser 5 4 4 3 5 4 - - J R K Emly 5 5 4 4 5 5 - - A W MacDonald 5 4 4 4 5 4 - - N W Benson retired 22.1.
2003 2 2 2 1 2 2 - - The key elements of the Companys procedures and internal financial Relations with Shareholders control framework are: The Company encourages dialogue with all shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and during the year.
The Chairman and Committee a The close involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects of dayChairmen are present at the Annual General Meeting to deal with any to-day operations, including regular meetings with senior staff to review matters raised by shareholders.
all operational aspects of the business.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet investor representatives at b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The Board has least annually to discuss strategic and other issues within the constraints responsibility for strategy and has adopted a schedule of matters which imposed to ensure the protection of price sensitive information which has are required to be brought to it for decision.
not already been made available to all shareholders.
The Board receives c A comprehensive system of financial reporting and forecasting.
regular reports prepared by the Companys brokers on meetings held with Financial accounts are prepared quarterly and submitted to the Board.
Profit and cash flow forecasts are prepared at least quarterly, approved The senior non-executive Director is available to shareholders as an by the Board and used to monitor actual performance.
alternative channel of communication with the Board.
d Regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee at which financial information is reviewed and business risks are identified and monitored.
Internal Control In view of the Companys controls structure summarised above, and on The Directors are responsible for the Companys systems of internal advice from the Audit Committee, the Board has resolved that at the controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed present time there is no need to establish an internal audit function.
to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Going Concern misstatement or loss.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys systems of expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in internal control which have been in place during the year and confirms operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they that systems to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial the Company have been in place throughout the year under review and statements.
up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The aim of these systems is to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identified and appropriate action taken at an early stage.
By Order of the Board Brian Bickell 2nd December 2003 Page 24 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
