40 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance guidelines This statement of Corporate Governance Policy has been adopted by candidate available.
In accordance with the Code, the retiring the Board.
In large part the company fully observes the principles Chairman would not chair the selection process.
and requirements of the Revised Combined Code but it also believes b The Deputy Chairman is a non-executive director who despite his that there should be continuity of direction to ensure a smooth length of service on the Board is adjudged as being independent transition to fuller compliance with the Code.
This statement is in character and judgement.
therefore to be read in conjunction with the Statement of Adherence c It has been decided to appoint Lord Blackwell as the Senior to the current Combined Code which can be found on pages 60 and 61.
d The separate roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive have The mission of the Board of Directors been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
The Slough Estates Board of Directors represents the shareholders interests in maintaining and growing a successful business including 5 Board composition and size optimising consistent long-term financial returns.
The Board is Size of the Board accountable for determining that the company and its subsidiaries It is important that the Board is of a size to enable there to be a are managed in such a way, to achieve this objective.
The Board has reasonable balance as between executive and non-executive directors, a general responsibility to ensure that in good times as well as times the number of executive directors to be such as to ensure the sound of adversity the Executive is fulfiling its responsibilities.
The Boards management of the business and to offer the expectation of responsibility is to monitor regularly the effectiveness of the Executives promotion for senior non-Board executive management.
policies and decisions, including the implementation and execution of its strategies.
The Code requires a majority of independent non-executive directors on the Board.
Currently there are four directors who In addition to meeting its obligations for improving shareholder value, comply with the strict definition of independence Code A.
3.1 and the Board has a responsibility to the Groups customers, employees and two others who in the opinion of the Board demonstrate by their suppliers, and to the communities where it develops and invests.
proactive contribution independence in character and judgement.
As these latter directors retire over the next two years, they will All these principles and responsibilities are founded upon the basis be replaced by new independent appointments.
of maintaining the successful continuity of the business.
6 The appointment of former executive directors to the Board Guidelines on important corporate governance issues The Board believes that this is a matter to be decided in each 1 Selection and composition of the Board individual instance but save for the Chairman and or Chief The Board will on a regular basis review the composition of the Executive it would probably be an exception to the rule for Board, the diversity of its skills and experience, their a former executive director to be considered.
A former executive complementarity and the characteristics required of both executive director would not be considered as being an independent and non-executive members of the Board in the context of the member of the Board.
This review should embrace diversity of experience, age, and term on the Board.
7 Term limits a Executive directors are employed on contracts which have 2 Selection and background of directors varying notice periods which do not exceed two years.
Subject Appointment of directors should be a transparent process.
to performance and other factors, executive directors once A Nomination Committee comprising a majority of non-executive appointed would usually remain on the Board until their normal directors has the responsibility for making recommendations for retirement age of 62, subject of course to their periodic new appointments to the Board.
The Nomination Committee is re-appointment by the shareholders in general meeting.
responsible for the procedure of selecting new directors and for b Non-executive directors are appointed and are then subject nominating them for election by the shareholders on first to periodic re-appointment by shareholders every three years appointment and thereafter at three-yearly intervals.
The Revised Code suggests that after two terms of three years there should be a rigorous assessment prior 3 On appointment, new directors will be given a comprehensive to being proposed for re-election.
After nine years service, a introduction to the Groups business including visits to the Groups non-executive director is by the Code deemed to have lost activities and meetings with senior management.
independence and would become liable to annual re-election.
Whilst such limits help to ensure that fresh ideas and views are 4 Board leadership available to the Board, they have the significant disadvantage Selection of the Chairman and Chief Executive of losing the contribution of directors who have a wealth of a The Nominations Committee will be responsible for selecting understanding of the Groups business, the executive team and nominating to the Board a candidate for the role of and the markets we operate in.
The Committee will exercise a presumption against the appointment of a current executive director but will maintain the freedom to choose the best 41 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 8 Retirement age Senior management are from time to time brought into formal The normal retirement age for all non-executive directors is 70 and and informal contact at Board meeting and other events.
the director will retire at the Annual General Meeting following the directors 70th birthday.
15 Availability of information The Executive has a responsibility to provide the whole Board with 9 Performance evaluation all the information of which it is aware that is relevant to the The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
The Board therefore expects performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
to receive timely advice on all material information about the The Chairman leads this process and his performance is evaluated by company, its subsidiaries, its activities, performance and its projects, the non-executive directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
particularly including any significant variances from a planned course of progress.
10 Professional development Directors are encouraged to continually update their professional 16 Meeting procedures skills and capabilities, together with knowledge of the The Chairman, together with the Chief Executive, will establish the companys business.
agenda for each Board meeting.
11 Board compensation review The necessary papers for meetings will be distributed in advance The pay and benefits for executive directors, including the of the meeting.
The Executive will provide the desired information Chairman, is determined by the Remuneration Committee but will endeavour to ensure that the material does not contain a committee comprised entirely of non-executive directors.
anything that is not relevant.
For non-executive directors, their fees and remuneration is determined by the Board on the advice of the company Chairman.
As a general rule, presentations on specific subjects should be sent The remuneration of executive directors and non-executive to the Board in advance so that time at the Board meeting can be directors will be the subject of continual monitoring of comparable conserved and used for discussion focused on questions.
companies and the assistance of independent external advisers will be sought from time to time.
17 Board authorities, delegations and discretions The Board has determined those matters which are retained for 12 Board Committees Board sanction and those matters which are delegated to the The Board will maintain two standing committees solely comprising executive management of the business.
non-executive directors appointed by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee will in accordance with its terms of reference determine A statement determining the investment and sanctioning the pay and other benefits of the Chairman, executive directors and authorities is also maintained.
The Audit Committee will review the financial accounts and policies and oversee internal controls 18 Governance policies and compliance.
A third committee, the Nomination Committee, Policy statements governing ethical, environmental and human will consider the need to make new appointments to the Board resources issues are in place.
and determine the renewal of directors appointments when they are due for re-election.
This latter committee will comprise a 19 Succession planning majority of non-executive directors.
The Board has a primary role in ensuring that adequate thought is given to planning for succession to executive director and 13 The Boards relationship with investors, press, etc.
senior management positions and that there are management The Chairman, Chief Executive and designated executive directors development programmes in place for suitable internal candidates.
will be the companys principal spokesmen with investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties.
The Senior Independent Director will also make himself available to investors.
The Board will be fully informed as to the information imparted to shareholders and their reactions.
14 Board access to senior management Board members have complete access to senior management.
It is assumed that directors will use their judgement to be sure that this contact is not distracting to the business of the company and the duties of management, and that the Chairman and Chief Executive are kept informed.
