Corporate Governance The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed The Board considers that, although Michael Orr is deemed not to to, high standards of corporate governance.
It is a requirement of be independent under the denition of independence in the new the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority that listed companies Code, as there are no relationships or circumstances that might disclose in their annual report and accounts how they have applied affect his judgement, he is independent notwithstanding the fact the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code: that he has served as a non-executive director since April 1993.
Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Michael Orr will retire at the end of the Annual General Meeting Combined Code and whether or not they have complied with its on 29 January 2004.
John Barton will become the Senior detailed provisions throughout the financial year.
Accordingly, this Independent Director following Michael Orrs retirement.
report sets out how the Company has applied the principles and The Board meets at least eight times a year and manages the complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code.
Company through a formal schedule of matters reserved for its Following publication of the Higgs Review The Role and decision.
These include the approval of financial statements, Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors, and the Smith Report acquisitions and disposals, material agreements, non-recurring Combined Code Guidance for Audit Committees in January 2003, projects, major capital expenditures and strategic plans.
It also the Financial Reporting Council issued the new Combined Code delegates specic responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed on 23 July 2003 the new Code which comes into effect for below, the role and responsibilities of each Committee being set out reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The in formal terms of reference which are available from the Company principles and provisions of the new Code have been considered Secretary on request.
by the Board and a number of steps have already been taken to All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company implement the new requirements.
The Board will continue to Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the review its practices in light of the new Code pending a full report Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board on compliance in next years Annual Report.
receives appropriate and timely information, Board and Committee The Board papers being sent out several days before meetings take place.
The WH Smith Board currently comprises an independent The need for director training is regularly assessed by the Chairman, four executive directors and five independent nonCompany and a formal process for evaluating the performance executive directors.
Short biographies of each of the directors, of the Board has been introduced.
which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 32.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the At least one third of the directors retire by rotation each year Company, Martin Taylor Chairman being responsible for in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The executive running the Board and Richard Handover Chief Executive being directors, with the exception of Richard Handover, have contracts responsible for implementing Group strategy.
Michael Orr has of service with one years notice whilst non-executive directors are been nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent Director.
appointed for periods of three years.
The contracts of service of The Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the executive directors and letters of appointment of the nonthe decision-making process.
executive directors are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal business hours on any On 4 November 2003, Richard Handover, currently Chief weekday, except Saturdays and public holidays, until 29 January Executive, will replace Martin Taylor as Chairman, and Kate Swann, 2004 and at the place of the Annual General Meeting on 29 currently Managing Director of Argos, will succeed Richard January 2004 for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
In light of the wish of Martin Taylor, Chairman, to step down for personal reasons, the Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders for there to be continuity in Board leadership during this period of management transition.
It has therefore concluded that Richard Handover should be appointed Chairman for a limited period, until 31 January 2005.
35 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Risk and internal control Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role is chaired by Patrick Lupo and meets at least three times a year.
of management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and The Committee provides an independent oversight of the control and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Companys systems of internal control and financial reporting Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than processes including the review of the annual and interim eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and financial statements before they are submitted to the Board.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against It also monitors proposed changes in accounting policy, meets material misstatement or loss.
with the external auditors and discusses the accounting implications i Risk of major transactions.
Following publication of the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control Nominations Committee Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code in September The Nominations Committee comprises four non-executive 1999, the Board enhanced its risk management procedures directors, is chaired by John Barton and meets as required.
including establishing a Business Risk Steering Committee The Committee reviews the composition of the Board and BRSC to co-ordinate risk assessment throughout the Group and recommends suitable candidates for appointment as directors.
It can confirm that for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report Remuneration Committee and accounts there has been an ongoing process for identifying, The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, directors, is chaired by Michael Orr and normally meets at least that is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the three times a year.
The Committee is responsible for formulating Turnbull Guidance.
executive remuneration policy and for determining the remuneration of the Chairman and executive directors by The key features of the risk management process are as follows: reference to individual performance and market data.
It also each business carries out an annual risk assessment based upon considers at an early stage the principal design criteria proposed identied business objectives which is reviewed and agreed for incorporation into the rules of any new incentive schemes by its management board.
The assessment identies key risks which may be considered by the Board.
to business objectives categorised into strategic, operational, Attendance at Board Committee meetings financial and information.
Each risk is scored for probability The following table shows the number of Board and Committee and impact and a control strategy is agreed to mitigate the risk: meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2003 and the a register of key risks and controls is compiled for each attendance record of individual directors.
business and generic risks are identied.
Key management are nominated in each business to monitor these risks.
Monthly Board meetings Committee meetings reports are included in the management accounts for each Audit Nominations Remuneration business and quarterly reports are prepared for the BRSC No.
of meetings 8317 identifying significant changes that affect the risks, control Martin Taylor 8 failings or weaknesses and new risks which require evaluation: Richard Handover 8 the BRSC, chaired by the Finance Director and including the Group Internal Audit Director and the Group Risk Director, Tim Hely Hutchinson 7 meets quarterly to review the key risks to each business and Beverley Hodson 8 to assess the effectiveness of the control strategies in place John Warren 8 to manage those risks: and John Barton 8317 significant control failings or risk occurrences are reported to Patrick Lupo 6315 the Executive Committee comprising the executive directors Michael Orr 8317 and Group Human Resources Director.
The BRSC regularly MT Rainey 8 1 3 reports to the Board on the significant risks facing the Company and the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Board carried out its annual review of the MT Rainey became a member of the Remuneration Committee effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control on 15 April 2003. in October 2003.
Directors remuneration Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and individual directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
36 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance continued ii Internal control b Non-financial controls a Financial controls The Company has established a wide range of non-financial The Company has an established framework of internal financial controls covering areas such as health and safety, environment, control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the ethical trading, employment and business continuity.
The key executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this elements are as follows: are as follows: a Corporate Responsibility Focus Group, chaired by the the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, Managing Director of the UK retail business, has been for approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, established to consider the impact our activities have on the for approving major acquisitions and disposals and for environment, workplace, marketplace and community determining the financial structure of the Company including at large, to share knowledge and identify opportunities treasury and dividend policy.
Monthly results, variances from to improve performance: plan and forecasts are reported to the Board: the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge health and safety in all its business activities.
These standards of its duties regarding the Companys financial statements, are set out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which is accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group Risk Management financial controls.
The Committee provides a direct link team works with the businesses to assess health and safety risks between the Board and the external auditors through and introduce systems to mitigate them.
All notied accidents regular meetings: are investigated and targets are set to reduce the level of the internal audit function advises and assists business incidence: management to establish and maintain adequate financial the Board has approved an Environmental Policy which sets controls and reports to the Board and Audit Committee out the Companys objectives and specic targets which are on the effectiveness of those controls: reviewed annually.
An Environmental Action Group has been routine financial reviews are held between the Chief Executive established to monitor progress against targets, keep businesses and Finance Director and their staff and business managing up to date with latest developments and develop the directors, finance directors and other executives.
These are communication process: held regularly for all businesses: the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable standards the Board has established an organisation structure with clearly among its suppliers and has approved an Ethical Trading Policy dened lines of responsibility and approval controls identifying setting out the standards it expects its suppliers to adopt.
This transactions requiring approval by the Board or by the policy covers health and safety, child labour, labour, working Approvals Committee.
The Finance Director is responsible for hours, discrimination and the environment: the functional leadership and development of the Companys the Company is committed to ensuring that its personnel meet finance activities: good standards of integrity and competence.
The Companys there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning systems cover the recruitment, training and development and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the of personnel, an appropriate division of responsibilities and Companys businesses to the directors.
Monthly results are the communication of Company policies and procedures reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the throughout the organisation: and current financial year are regularly revised in the light of actual Business Recovery Plans exist to enable businesses to performance.
These cover profits, cash ows, capital continue in the event of a disaster with minimum disruption expenditure and balance sheets: to customers.
the Company has established a uniform system of investment The Company intends to replace the Corporate Responsibility appraisal: Focus Group with a committee of the Board which will be responsible executive management has dened the financial controls for corporate responsibility.
The Committee will comprise nonand procedures with which each business is required to executive directors and senior management.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against performance indicators and exception reporting and each business is required to prepare monthly management accounts: and routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and risks for review by senior executives and annual reports are prepared for the Board covering treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
37 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Governance continued Auditor independence The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, at the time of approving the accounts, the directors satisfied themselves that the Company has adequate resources to enable it to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual report and accounts and the Annual General Meeting AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website www.
com Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in the annual report which is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the number of proxy votes received for and against the resolution is announced.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director update the Board following meetings with major shareholders and analysts briengs are circulated with the Board papers.
When requested to do so, non-executive directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
Compliance with the Combined Code During the year ended 31 August 2003, the Company complied with the requirements of the Combined Code other than as follows.
Richard Handover was employed under a contract of service with a two-year notice period, this contract will cease upon his appointment as Chairman on 4 November 2003.
His appointment as Chairman is for a xed term until 31 January 2005.
38 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
