Corporate governance This report is prepared in accordance with the 1998 Combined Code the Code.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and is committed to high standards of corporate governance as outlined in the Code on corporate governance appended to the Listing Rules issued by the UKLA.
The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except where noted on page 35.
This statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
The Company has reviewed its compliance with the Combined Code published in July 2003 the 2003 Code and there is a statement at the end of the corporate governance report describing the Companys compliance with the 2003 Code.
The Board, which meets at least eight times a year, has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
It is primarily responsible for the strategy needed for the successful direction of an international Group and currently comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and two independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman is an independent non-executive director.
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where necessary the directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During the year attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the committees on which they sit was one hundred percent with the exception of a board meeting and audit committee meeting held on 24 February 2003 when M A Ward was unable to attend due to disruption in travel arrangements.
Under the Companys Articles of Association all directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
D M Dunn and M Humphrey were re-elected at the 2001 AGM and are consequently retiring at the AGM but are offering themselves for re-election.
Biographical notes appear on pages 22 and 23.
These demonstrate a range of business, financial and international experience which provides an appropriate balance of authority and experience throughout the Board.
The Board recognises the importance of line management taking ownership, and thereby responsibility, for managing and controlling the risks which may be inherent in their particular area of responsibility.
In furtherance of the principles of good corporate governance, the Board has appointed the following committees.
All these committees have written terms of reference.
Other executives attend the meetings of these committees when requested to do so by the committee chairman.
Executive committee Mike Humphrey Chairman David Barraclough Keith Gregersen Kevin Nutbrown Barbara Richmond The executive committee meets every month to deal with all executive business of the Group not specifically reserved to the Board or to any of the committees mentioned below.
Among other matters, it reviews investment proposals below the levels which are reserved for Board approval.
Audit committee Michael Ward Chairman Antony Beevor David Dunn The audit committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year.
It assists the Board in observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial controls and compliance procedures are in place.
During the year the committee has continued to monitor and review the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors,  LLP.
The auditors attend these meetings.
33 Corporate governance Remuneration committee David Dunn Chairman Antony Beevor Michael Ward The remuneration committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, meets on average three times a year and is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive normally attends its meetings.
The report on the directors remuneration is set out on pages 27 to 32.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report on the directors remuneration.
Nomination committee Antony Beevor Chairman David Dunn Michael Ward The nomination committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and did not meet in 2003.
Risk management committee Barbara Richmond Chairman Roy Ainger David Barraclough Graham Myers Kevin Nutbrown The risk management committee evaluates, proposes policies on and monitors processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Routine business committee The routine business committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the executive committee.
Non-executive directors Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
At present there are three such directors, including the Chairman, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular divisional presentations and by site visits.
34 Investor relations The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private investors.
It is normal practice for all members of the Board to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
The annual report and accounts including notice of AGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
The level of proxies lodged on each AGM resolution and the balance for and against each resolution is declared by the Chairman after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands providing no poll has been called for.
When appropriate, meetings are held between the executive directors and institutional investors.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control The Code principle D. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In order to discharge this responsibility the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
In particular there are clear procedures for ncapital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review nfinancial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework nmonitoring of business risks.
During the year the Company has continued its formal procedures for the assessment and review of all business risks under the direction of the risk management committee which reports regularly to the Board.
Such procedures have been embedded into the system of internal control.
There are also clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal financial control.
This is a process which involves nreports from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible, and a report from the Group Financial Controller concerning the operation of the system as a whole nreports from the Group Financial Controller on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
The internal audit work is carried out by both our own employees and personnel seconded from  LLP who report through the Group Financial Controller to the audit committee nreports from the external auditors.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going concern The financial statements, which appear on pages 38 to 64, have been prepared on the going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Compliance The information contained in this report demonstrates how the Company has complied with the Code.
The one exception is that, in addition to a notice period of six months, the service contracts of the executive directors provide for pre-determined compensation equivalent to eighteen months remuneration on termination without just cause.
The level of compensation on termination was determined when the notice period for directors service contracts was reduced from three years to six months without any payment.
The directors intend to introduce one years compensation on termination for new appointees to the Board.
Code of Best Practice, Schedule B, Item 7.
In all other respects the Company has complied with the Code throughout the year under review.
35 Corporate governance Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors set out on page 37, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 38 to 64 inclusive, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, applied in a consistent manner and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
2003 Code The provisions of the new Combined Code which will apply to the Company with effect from 1 January 2004 have been considered by the Board and the following matters have been specifically addressed: 1 The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees have been reviewed and have been posted on the Companys website together with the revised schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
2 A process has been commenced for the regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and of individual directors.
3 The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are being formalised in greater detail.
4 Letters have been sent to shareholders holding more than 1% of the Companys issued share capital advising of the availability of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director for personal meetings and discussion.
In other respects the Company either already complies or with minor adjustment of procedures can comply with the provisions of the new Code subject to the exception referred to above under Compliance in relation to the current Code.
By order of the Board J R Ainger Secretary 24 February 2004 36
