20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 Corporate Governance The Companys corporate governance procedures have met the Relations with shareholders requirements of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Major Governance the Code throughout the year.
announcements are made available to shareholders and the general public through the London Stock Exchange and through The Board the Dairy Crest Group plc website www.
The Board consists of the non-executive Chairman, four There is regular dialogue with institutional and other major executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to Board considers all of the non-executive directors including the communicate with private and institutional investors and Chairman to be independent.
The Board meets eight times a welcomes their participation.
The chairmen of the Audit, year.
It reserves a formal schedule of matters for its approval Remuneration and Nomination committees are available at which includes Group strategy, approval of budgets and major Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
All directors have access to external advice at the expense of the Company.
Mr P S Lewis Internal control acts as the Companys senior non-executive director.
Any The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal shareholder who has a concern about the affairs of the control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Company should contact, in the first instance, the Chairman, As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing the Chief Executive or Mr P S Lewis.
process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control, to identify, evaluate and manage The Audit Committee the risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors the year under review and up to the date of approval of the and is chaired by Mr P S Lewis.
The Committee normally meets Annual Report.
at least twice a year to review the Companys interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for its The main elements of the process applied in reviewing the approval, to review the adequacy of the Groups accounting effectiveness of the systems of internal control include: systems and controls and to monitor the relationship with the Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through an external auditors, considering their independence and advising organisational structure with clearly defined levels of the Board on auditors fees.
It also considers the Groups responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The compliance with the Combined Code.
Mr D J Dugdale became Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral a member of the Audit Committee following the retirement of and written presentations to maintain effective control over Mr T H Jones on 29 May 2003. strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters.
Financial reporting there is an annual budget approved by The Nomination Committee the Board and monthly financial reporting to the Board.
The The Nomination Committee comprises two non-executive monthly financial information includes trading results, directors and the non-executive Chairman.
It is responsible balance sheet and cash flow information by business unit for making recommendations to the Board on all director with comparison against prior year and budget.
Mr D J Dugdale became chairman of the Control environment the identification and mitigation of Nomination Committee following the retirement of Mr T H Jones business unit risks is the responsibility of the executive on 29 May 2003. directors in conjunction with the senior management of each business.
Each business unit operates and maintains The Remuneration Committee controls appropriate to its own activities and conforms to The Remuneration Committee comprises two non-executive group policies and procedures.
On a quarterly basis, each directors and the non-executive Chairman and is chaired by business unit is required to complete a self-assessment Mr G E Grimstone.
Its responsibilities are to determine, within controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the salaries, unit management.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives bonuses and pension rights of the executive directors.
reports from the internal audit function summarising audit Remuneration and benefits are designed to be set at a level issues noted and corrective action plans as well as reports appropriate to the Companys circumstances having regard to from the external auditors on the conclusions of their interim market information provided by outside agencies.
The Board review and final audit.
itself determines the remuneration of non-executive directors.
Mr H Mann became a member of the Remuneration Committee The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups on 30 May 2003, following which the size of the committee was system of internal control which is designed to manage rather increased to four.
than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
