30 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
presentations given to analysts and institutions.
Shareholders and This statement describes how the Board has applied the principles of others interested in the Group are encouraged to use the site and good governance set out in the Combined Code the Code issued by to email questions which they might have.
the Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance.
The Code is part Ordinary shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General of the listing rules of the Financial Services Authority.
It applied to the Meeting, of which 20 working days notice is given.
In July, the Financial Reporting Council revised the Code the Revised Internal controls and management of risk Code based on the reports of Mr Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith, The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities published in January.
The Revised Code is not applicable to the for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives and Company in the year under review, but the Company has begun the profitability.
Senior management addresses the opportunities and process of further formalising its procedures to enable the Board to uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
The risk report, as required, under the Revised Code in the year beginning management process consists of the identification, evaluation and 4th October, 2004. control of risks, which could threaten the achievement of the Groups strategic, operational and financial objectives, as well as the active The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 management of opportunities.
to 42 set out how the Company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
They also explain certain procedural changes that have The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the divisions been made in anticipation of and in response to the Revised Code.
The described on pages 4 and 5 having considerable autonomy as Company has substantially complied with the provisions of the Code, regards its operation and establishment of control systems.
Overseeing except where stated below or in the Remuneration Report.
the divisional structure is a central management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions are undertaken centrally, notably newsprint The Board buying, insurance, treasury, tax and pensions.
The Board comprises six executive Directors, including the Chairman The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system and the Chief Executive, and nine non-executive Directors.
The Board of internal control.
This system is designed to provide reasonable considers that five non-executive Directors may be considered assurance of the safeguarding of assets and shareholders investment to be independent in the sense used in the Code, namely Messrs and the reliability of financial information.
Any such system can, however, Hakkarainen, Lowy and Dunstone, Professor Schwab and provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of these matters.
This represents a majority of the non-executive directors The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the as recommended by the Code.
The Board has not, as required by the Groups system of internal control.
Code, identified a senior independent non-executive Director since it believes that to identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a The Board has delegated responsibility for the evaluation of the benefits unitary body, as the Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
and risks of investment opportunities and financing proposals to an executive committee, the Finance Committee.
Above certain defined The Companys Articles of Association were amended in 1999 to meet levels, however, the Board must approve programmes relating to the requirement of the Code that all Directors should submit themselves acquisition and divestment proposals and capital expenditure.
In 2000, for re-election at least once every three years.
the Board established a process for the management of significant risks The Board meets at least on a quarterly basis and at such other times across the Group by means of a Risk Committee which accords with the as are necessary.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
guidance provided by the Code.
Procedures are established to ensure that the Board receives timely and appropriate information both for those meetings and regularly Risk Committee between meetings.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control and the review of its effectiveness resides with the Board, the Risk The Board has established a number of committees with mandates to Committee assists the Board by giving assurance on risk management deal with specific aspects of its business.
Details of the membership issues and processes.
The Risk Committee is chaired by Mr Sinclair, of these committees are given on page 28.
A Corporate Governance the Chief Executive.
Its other members are the Viscount Rothermere, section is being established on the Company's website within which Messrs Williams, Gray and Dutton and the legal director of the Groups the remits of each of these committees will be published.
Mr Gray provides a non-executive perspective to All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company the review of risk management processes within the Group, as well Secretary and are offered such training as is considered necessary, as providing a direct link to the Audit Committee.
The Groups Risk both on appointment and at any subsequent time.
There is an agreed Manager acts as Secretary to the Committee.
It met five times during procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the the year under review.
The Risk Committee considers reports prepared by central management, by each of the divisions of the Group and by central Nominations Committee functions, on a half-yearly basis.
These reports identify business risks In May, the Board established a separate Nominations Committee in for the Group as a whole and within the divisions and assess the controls order to adopt formally some of the suggestions for best practice, set in place to manage those risks.
The Committee operates a rotational out in the Higgs Report.
The Committee has met three times since its programme of presentations by the divisions on risk management establishment.
The members of the Committee throughout the year issues, as well as identifying topics for consideration across the Group.
were the Viscount Rothermere, its chairman, Mr Gray, Mr Hakkarainen and Mr Hemingway.
On 26th November, 2003, Messrs Gray and Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links with each Hakkarainen stood down from the Committee and were replaced of the main divisions through attendance at divisional Board meetings.
The Committee reports to the DMGT Board at each of its meetings on the results of these processes to enable the Board to determine Relations with shareholders the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with its institutional shareholders.
In the past year, this has included meetings In the last year, the Risk Committee selected major risks for close in London, Scotland, Continental Europe and the US.
Partly to scrutiny, such as Brand and Reputation, Business Continuity Planning assist private shareholders, the Company operates a web site at and Health and Safety, which are common to all subsidiaries and www.
co. uk on which it posts all announcements and general enhanced the divisional risk reporting processes by analysing whether Daily Mail and General Trust plc 31 Corporate Governance Continued specific control mechanisms were resilient enough.
The existing internal The joint ventures and associates of the Group are also not included controls risk review format was updated to reflect inherent operational in the Groups system of internal control described above.
The most risks as well as risks of a random nature.
A Health and Safety Policy significant associate, GWR Group plc, is also a listed company and statement was produced for the Group.
its own processes for the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks are disclosed in its own annual report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which has been in existence since 1989, Directors Responsibilities for the Preparation of Accounts comprises four non-executive directors: Messrs Gray its chairman, The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts for Hemingway, Park and Dunstone.
Only Mr Dunstone is considered to each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of be independent in the sense used by the Code, but the Board believes the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of that the Committee nevertheless operates independently.
the profit or loss, total recognised gains and losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Audit Committee held four meetings during the year.
In May, it reviewed the Smith Report and assessed where the Companys The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used practice differed from that proposed and what might be done about and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent judgements it.
As a consequence, it made a number of procedural changes and and estimates have been made in the preparation of the Accounts devised a policy on whistle blowing.
In September, it carried out a for the year ended 28th September, 2003.
The Directors also confirm review of its terms of reference and of its effectiveness and concluded that applicable accounting standards have been followed and that it that it did not need to recommend any changes to its remit or is appropriate that the Accounts have been prepared on the going operations to the Board.
In October 2003, the Board conducted its own concern basis.
review of the Committees effectiveness and agreed that the Committee The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, had been effective in the year under review.
for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the The Audit Committee has established procedures to monitor the Company and of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent independence of the external auditors.
This has included devising and detect fraud and other irregularities.
policies on the provision of non-audit services with which the Groups head office and each division complies.
The choice of firm is normally On behalf of the Board determined on the basis of professional expertise and competitiveness.
The Group may engage the external auditors to perform audit-related work, accountancy advice and corporate tax services.
Non-audit services in other areas are decided on their merits and are put out to tender where the amounts in question are significant.
The external Rothermere auditors are excluded from the following areas: where they are auditing Chairman their own work: where a mutuality of interest is created: or where the 26th November, 2003 external auditor would be put in the role of advocate for the Company.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has maintained responsibility for the review of financial risk management and of internal financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to the quality of financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviews a summary of letters to management prepared by the Groups external auditors following their audit procedures, receives reports from divisional finance directors on an ad hoc basis, throughout the year, and approves any changes to Group accounting policies, which are set centrally.
Apart from these specific responsibilities, the Committee is mandated to review all announcements of results issued by the Group and to consider the appointment of external auditors and to review their remuneration.
Last year the Board stated that it had commissioned a report from an independent firm of accountants to assess whether it would be appropriate for the Group to adopt a formal internal audit function to co-ordinate the internal audit activities already carried out across the Group, but from a divisional level.
The reports recommendations were accepted by the Audit Committee and a decision was taken to seek a business assurance manager to perform the functions set out in the Smith Guidance to the Revised Code, building on the Companys risk management process.
An appointment has recently been made.
In the meantime the Board has again taken the view that control processes already in place remain adequate.
The Group does not maintain common detailed accounting or operations manuals.
Where applicable, divisions maintain their own manuals and undertake regular internal audit work as part of their control process.
One of the Groups subsidiaries, Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, is subject to the requirements of the Code in its own right.
As disclosed in its latest annual report, it has in place its own system of internal control and risk management processes.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
