Corporate Governance The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board and all Directors recognise that they are accountable to shareholders and responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
The Boards objectives are: 1 delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders: 2 maintaining the Companys reputation for integrity as the foundation of its relationship with stakeholders and 3 building long term success through innovation, quality and sound management.
The Companys corporate governance procedures which are approved by the Board define the matters reserved to the Board, the terms of reference of various committees of the Board and functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining the jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and non-executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined Code, legislation or good practice.
Revisions were last made in October 2002.
The Board also approves the Companys Business Code of Conduct which defines the Companys business principles.
This statement explains how the relevant principles and the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance are applied by the Company.
This does not extend to associated companies, such as Camelot Group, where we do not have management control.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, have reviewed whether the statement reflects compliance with the specified provisions of the Combined Code as required by the Financial Services Authority and their comments on this can be found in the Auditors Report on page 43.
Principles of Business Conduct The Companys reputation is based on security, integrity and trust.
All employees are required to comply with the Companys Business Code of Conduct.
The Code defines the core values and principles governing how fide La Rue does business.
It covers areas such as complying with local laws and regulations such as insider dealing or competition law, ethical dealings with governments, customers, suppliers and third parties, protecting the Groups assets, and avoiding conflicts of interest.
More specific issues such as health and safety and the environment are also covered.
There is a process whereby employees who have any concerns about the application of the Business Code or business practices within the Company may raise them ultimately with the Company Secretary.
All current and new employees are required to receive a personal copy of the Code.
Policies and guidelines are also posted on the Companys intranet and managers must ensure that their staff are properly briefed.
Training for relevant employees is also provided.
Board of Directors The main functions of the Board are to lead and control the Company ensuring a clear division between the management of the Board and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the Companys business.
The Board comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and four non-executive Directors ensuring a balance exists so that no individual or small group can dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the business and implementing Board strategy and policy and he is assisted by an Executive Committee and Operating Board comprising the key senior managers.
The Directors biographies appear on page 27.
Certain Directors are also Directors of other listed companies as set out in their respective biographies.
It is the policy of the Board that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept appointments to the Boards of other companies only with the prior approval of the Board, and that non-executive Directors must seek the agreement of the Chairman and approval by the Board before accepting additional commitments that may affect the time they devote to their role.
The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent, have an appropriate range of business, financial and global experience which is relevant to the Companys activities.
Nicholas Brookes is the Companys senior independent non-executive Director.
On appointment, non-executive Directors confirm that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them properly to discharge their duties.
Any newly appointed Director who has not previously been a director of a listed company is required to attend an external course covering the duties and responsibilities of such Directors.
In addition, all new Directors are provided with a full induction programme into the activities of the business and are provided with a comprehensive information pack on joining the Company.
Directors are briefed, where appropriate by the Companys external advisers, on changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as receiving briefings from individual businesses throughout the year.
Directors have the opportunity of attending appropriate training sessions.
At least once a year the Board generally visits one site outside head office and directors are encouraged to visit other sites and staff.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The Board generally meets 10 times a year.
The Board requires regular reports from management on key issues for which there is a prescribed timetable.
Details are set out on pages 35 and 36.
The Boards core procedures are: 1 the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees and Directors: 2 the control of risk through agreed evaluation and control procedures revised annually and 3 monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination Committee.
32 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce its control of the Company.
These include compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements and the approval of interim and final results.
In addition, any matter which would have a material effect on the Companys financial position, liabilities, future strategy or reputation must be referred to the Board.
Other matters are delegated to Board Committees, details of which are provided below.
Consistent with its responsibility for the overall direction of the Company, the Board has adopted procedures to review annually the effectiveness of its activities and the satisfactory performance of its functions.
This has included reviewing the appropriateness of objectives set, the existence of robust core procedures and the outcome of the Boards activity.
The process has involved the adoption by the Board of a report following one-on-one interviews by the Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director with each Director and the implementation of an action plan to deal with any issues identified.
Directors receive agendas and Board papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes are circulated as soon as possible thereafter.
There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters between Board meetings.
All Directors can request additional information at any time.
They are also entitled to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, under an agreed procedure.
No such advice was sought during the year.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Committees of the Board The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
Membership of these Committees is given in the Directors biographies on page 27.
Further details are given below.
Audit Committee The Committee meets at least three times a year and receives regular reports from external auditors, reviews the interim and final financial statements and monitors the internal and external auditing process before submission to the Board.
In addition, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Financial Controller and representatives of the auditors,  LLP, also attend.
For part of the proceedings  LLP attend alone with members of the Committee.
It met three times during the year.
Remuneration Committee The Committee met 11 times during the year.
Details of the Committee and of the remuneration policy can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
Nomination Committee The Committee meets when necessary and makes recommendations to the Board to fill vacancies for executive and non-executive Directors.
The Committee reviews the composition of the Board and Committees and the time required of non-executive Directors at least once a year.
The Board as a whole approves the appointment and removal of Directors.
The Committee has the power to employ the services of such advisers as it deems necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities and will invariably retain appropriate executive search consultants having prepared a job specification of the role.
The Committee met twice during the year.
General Business Committee The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only non-executive Directors are able to make decisions on matters relating to the administration or the implementation of the Companys share schemes other than for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise.
Risk Committee The Committee chaired by the Company Secretary meets at least four times a year.
Other members include the heads of key functions and representatives from each division.
The core responsibilities are to: nidentify and evaluate key significant risks excluding matters relating to financial reporting and systems which are the remit of the Audit Committee : nassist the Board by providing a framework for managing risk throughout the Company: nprovide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk management within the Company to the Board: nenable any corrective actions to be taken.
The Risk Committee is also responsible for promoting awareness of risk management.
The Committee consolidates and prioritises for the Board the inputs received from the corporate functions managing risks, including insurance, health and safety, fire, environment, business continuity, security and legal including compliance and regulatory.
Key incidents and the management processes and systems introduced to monitor and manage these risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee.
Quarterly reports are made to the Board which monitors progress in managing any issues identified.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 33 Corporate Governance continued The Committee is assisted by various other Group-wide committees which deal with managing different areas of risk such as: nEnvironmental Steering Group: nHealth & Safety Steering Group: nInformation Security Committee: nGroup Security Committee.
Business risks are categorised as external or strategic risks compared to risks which are more internal and operational in nature.
The main general risks to which the Company is vulnerable are managing market expectations, damage to reputation, security, contingent liabilities and environment, health and safety.
Strategic risks are managed by the Board with the assistance of the Committees of the Board, the main ones being the Audit and Risk Committees.
This is supported by monthly finance, operational and development reports to the Board.
The key elements of operational risk are rated according to exposure and are then benchmarked through a combination of self audit and surveys by external specialists.
Insurance premiums are allocated according to the scores.
Benchmarking thus enables closer monitoring of non-financial risk as well as providing an incentive to improve risk management.
Further details relating to environmental and health and safety issues are set out in the Environment, Health and Safety section of this annual report.
The Board has reviewed the risk management processes as identified by the Risk Committee and is satisfied that these are appropriate to the nature of the risks likely to affect the Groups businesses.
The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Sir Brandon Gough 15 3 11 2 Nicholas Brookes 13 10 2 Keith Hodgkinson 13 3 10 Stephen King appointed 31 January 2003 3 Ian Much 15 2 Michael Jeffries 13 2 9 Philip Nolan 14 2 10 Relationship with Shareholders The Company places a high priority on communications with and accountability to shareholders.
A general interim statement and an audited annual report and accounts are sent to shareholders and posted on the Companys website as are presentations to institutional investors.
All shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are able to vote electronically.
At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman announces details of proxy voting after each item of business.
He also provides a trading update.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are also present.
Shareholders may question the Board on these and other matters relating to the Groups business.
Directors also have an opportunity to meet shareholders informally after the meeting.
The share register is actively monitored.
During the year meetings take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts and presentations are made at the time of major events.
The Chairman is also available to meet such shareholders.
The views of shareholders are reported to the Board and from time to time a survey of institutional shareholders views is carried out by an external consultant.
Relationship with Local Communities Individual businesses are free to participate in their local communities by supporting local charities or good causes or encouraging their employees so to do.
Independence of Auditors Both the Audit Committee and the auditors themselves have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised.
The Company has formalised its policy relating to: nselecting the statutory auditors and approving the audit fee: ncommissioning non-audit work: ncircumstances in which it is appropriate or inappropriate for incumbent auditors to be allowed to or to be prohibited from performing non-audit work.
34 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 fide La Rues procedures for procuring audit and consulting services from external sources are: nAudit related services: this covers regulatory and statutory reporting and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
In addition to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an ongoing basis, the extent to which the auditors keep the Audit Committee and management of the Company informed about material issues affecting the Company and any significant developments in accounting policies and standards which may have a material effect on the Companys financial position.
The Audit Committee recommends to the Board the fee range appropriate to the audit for the next financial year and delegates authority to the Chairman of the Audit Committee to approve the final fee negotiated by the Finance Director.
nNon-audit related services: the Audit Committee regularly reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services seeking to balance the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
Incumbent auditors are prohibited from performing certain non-audit related services including remuneration consultancy and advice, the design, development or implementation of financial information or internal control systems.
Certain non-audit services interrelate closely with the auditing work because of the significant knowledge the incumbent auditors may possess of the particular area of the business or issue.
A total ban may lead to loss of business knowledge and may adversely affect audit quality.
Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent auditors to provide services, as a general principle all must be subject to competitive tender.
The Finance Director determines where this shall apply.
Such non-audit related services may include: assistance to the internal audit team in auditing the Companys group-wide information systems to ensure compliance with best practice and that a consistent approach is applied across the Group: work related to disposals undertaken by the external auditors due to their knowledge of the business concerned: corporation tax compliance work assessed on a case by case basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
There are some non-audit related services which are potentially acceptable for the incumbent auditors to perform but are subject to prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
These may include acquisition work where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, timescales, local resource and cost.
The external auditors are not always used for this work.
In recognition of increasing public and investor concern over the potential effects of consulting services on auditors independence, the external auditors have not performed any significant general consulting work in recent years.
During 2002 2003 the amount of consulting related non-audit fees paid to  LLP was less than 38 per cent of the audit fee and principally related to IT audits and tax advice.
The auditors report to the Audit Committee on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence as external auditors.
This includes, for example, the rotation of key members of the  LLP audit team and ensuring, where appropriate, that complete confidentiality is maintained between different parts of the firm which may be providing services to fide La Rue.
Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Company has complied throughout 2002 2003 with Section 1 of the Combined Code provisions on internal control by establishing the procedures necessary to implement the guidance issued by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales issued in September 1999 the Turnbull Committee report and reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Through the Risk and Audit Committees details of which are set out on pages 33 and 34, there is an established process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks which are faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in the year.
The review process used by the Board includes: ndiscussions with management on risk areas identified by management and or the audit process and any changes from the previous review: nthe review of internal and external audit plans: nthe review of significant issues identified by internal and external audits: and nthe review of significant Group risks reported by the Risk Committee.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 35 Corporate Governance continued The procedures for internal control and internal financial control are set out on the Companys intranet.
Divisional managing directors, to whom general managers of each business report, are responsible for establishing and maintaining these procedures.
A summary of the key policies and procedures is provided to senior managers.
In addition, the Board received during the year other reports on such matters as security, health and safety, environmental issues and fire risks.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system of internal financial control, including taking reasonable steps to ensure that the systems are being maintained.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and the risks to which it is exposed, with procedures intended to provide effective internal financial control.
The controls by their nature can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of these procedures are outlined below.
The Group treasury department acts as a service centre to manage the Groups cash and borrowings, including interest rate and currency exposures, operating within clearly defined guidelines approved by the Board.
Financial instruments used by the department are also subject to Board approval.
The financial control framework includes the following key features: nan annual strategic planning process: nan annual budget: na system of monthly reporting by each operating subsidiary, which involves comparison of actual results with the original budget: nmonthly reporting of performance to the Board.
The main control procedures which address the financial implications of the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures, which apply to all subsidiaries.
These include: nexecutive Directors approval of all major non-routine revenue expenditure: nBoard approval of all major capital expenditure: nBoard approval of all acquisitions and disposals: na system of authorisation limits which cascades throughout the Group: nBoard consideration of any matter having a material effect on the Group.
The Directors also monitor the internal financial control systems using reports received from management during the year.
There is a system of internal control reviews which includes a self-assessment programme covering both financial and IT controls.
The internal audit programme is centrally co-ordinated.
These are set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, together with reports from the external auditors on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
The Board considers that it has complied throughout the financial year with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
By order of the Board Louise Fluker Company Secretary 27 May 2003 36 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003
