Statement on Corporate Governance The Company complies with the detailed requires.
The Directors are therefore able to To further strengthen the independence of Corporate Governance provisions make informed decisions on corporate and the Board, the Board is seeking to appoint incorporated into the Listing Rules for business issues under consideration.
another independent Non-executive quoted companies.
The Group complied Director in the forthcoming year.
with all Combined Code requirements The Company Secretary is responsible for throughout the year.
ensuring that Board processes and Save as previously mentioned, the Nonprocedures are appropriately followed and executive Directors have no material or Board structure and processes support effective decision making.
All business relationships with the Company The Board consists of its Non-executive Directors have access to the Company and each of the other Non-executive Chairman, its Chief Executive, Finance Secretarys advice and services and there is Directors are regarded as independent.
Director and four Non-executive Directors, also a formal procedure for Directors to with Mr A M Jackson as the senior obtain independent professional advice in Audit Committee Non-executive Director.
Mr P B Dermody the course of their duties, if necessary, at The Company has an Audit Committee stepped down as Chief Executive on the Companys expense.
An induction consisting of Non-executive Directors under 1 September 2003 and retired as a Director programme is arranged for all new the chairmanship of Mr N N Walmsley.
This covers the major trading The members of the Audit Committee are appointed as his replacement as Chief activities of the Company as well as the as disclosed on page 13.
The Committee Executive on 1 September 2003.
Details of roles and responsibilities of Directors meets at least three times a year and its all the Directors, together with the generally.
Directors receive subsequent terms of reference follow those committees on which they sit, are set out training as required and are also recommended by the Combined Code and on page 13.
All members of the Board encouraged to visit the Companys trading its decisions and proceedings are reported submit themselves for re-election every operations.
Mr N N Walmsley and Mr R G Stubbs retire by rotation and The roles of the Chairman and Chief The external Auditors are invited to attend submit themselves for re-election.
The Non-executive all the Audit Committee meetings and Mr A M Jackson has served for more than Chairman is responsible for effectively other Board members are invited to attend nine years as a Non-executive Director and operating and chairing the Board.
Part of each meeting of the therefore submits himself for re-election.
Executive has overall responsibility for Audit Committee is held between the Nonmanaging the Company, which includes executive Directors and the external The Board meets at least every two months strategy and operations.
during the year with further meetings arranged as necessary.
The Non-executive The Non-executive Chairman and The Audit Committee reviews the annual Directors meet at least once a year without Mr S P Morgan both have interests in financial statements of the Company the presence of any Executive Directors.
substantial share holdings in the Company together with its accounting systems and During the year the Board met formally on 5.2% and 13.7% respectively at internal controls.
The individuals responsible eleven occasions.
Mr R G Stubbs and 28 September 2003 and the Non-executive for the Companys internal audit function Mr N N Walmsley attended all formal Chairman was also previously the Chief have direct access to the Chairman of the meetings.
Lord Daresbury, Mrs D Hewitt, Executive.
As a result, they are not Audit Committee.
The Committee also Mr S P Morgan, Mr P B Dermody and considered to be independent.
reviews the appointment and terms of Mr A M Jackson each gave their apologies reference of the external Auditors and for non-attendance at one meeting.
Mr A M Jackson has been a Director of the monitors the level of non-audit services All committee meetings were fully Company since 1993 and, in accordance provided by the Auditors.
There are a number of matters with best practice, the Board has reviewed non-audit fees is provided in Note 2.
The which are always dealt with by the Board whether, in its opinion, he remains Company Secretary acts as secretary to the such as approval of the annual budget, independent.
In addition they have also Audit Committee.
authorisation of major acquisitions and reviewed whether he should, on the disposals, as well as significant items of grounds of length of service, be replaced.
The Board also The Board has concluded that Mr A M The Company has a Remuneration approves the issue of the final and interim Jacksons industry experience, his Committee, under the chairmanship of results and the Annual and Interim Reports understanding of the business and the level Mrs D Hewitt, which meets at least once a of the Group.
of commitment he displays to the Board are year.
Details of the members of the such that he provides just the sort of committee and its remit are disclosed in the In advance of each meeting, the Board challenge expected of an independent NonReport on Directors Remuneration on receives detailed financial information on executive Director.
The Board therefore page 19. the business performance of the Group in considers Mr Jackson to be an independent addition to items for decision.
also requests additional information as it STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 17 Statement on Corporate Governance continued To further improve communications with A formal appraisal and approval process Nomination Committee shareholders, the Group has a website is operated for all items of capital The Company has a Nomination Committee www.
co. uk dedicated to expenditure.
Projects are required to under the chairmanship of Mr A M Jackson.
the communication of corporate demonstrate achievement of appropriate This Committee recommends to the Board information such as: current and historical operational and financial criteria.
the appointment of all Executive and Nonfinancial reports, presentations and press executive Directors.
The Committee releases together with a link to the current Key systems and controls are documented determines the terms of reference for new share price.
We also offer our shareholders and, on a monthly basis, self-certification appointments and uses external advisers to the option of receiving electronic versions reports are signed off by heads of finance identify suitable candidates for any vacant of shareholder communications, including functions across the Group.
directorships: each candidate is interviewed the annual and interim reports.
Information by all members of the Committee.
A regarding this service can be downloaded Internal audits are conducted in shortlist is then prepared and further directly from the corporate website.
interviews take place as appropriate.
Any Each hotel or business unit is audited at appointments to the Board are approved by Internal contol least once each year, with further audits the Board as a whole.
During the year, The Board is responsible for the Groups being conducted in accordance with Mr C A Leaver was appointed Chief system of internal control and for reviewing perceived risk.
Executive and the above procedure was its effectiveness.
The system of internal followed in relation to his appointment.
control is designed to safeguard The Group has a clearly defined shareholders investment and the organisational structure which allows Newly appointed Directors are subject to Companys assets by managing the risks of appropriate segregation of duty.
election by shareholders at the Annual not meeting business objectives and is Employees have prescribed authority levels.
intended to provide reasonable and not Under the Companys Articles of absolute assurance against material The effectiveness of internal control Association all Directors must submit misstatement or loss.
systems are considered and monitored themselves for re-election at least every regularly and at least once a year by the three years.
The principal elements of the Groups Board of Directors and the Audit system of internal control and risk Committee.
The Directors confirm that they Relations with shareholders management, that comply with the have reviewed the effectiveness of the Communications with shareholders are Turnbull guidance and which were in place Internal Control system in accordance with given high priority.
The Chief Executives throughout the year under review and up the above procedures.
Overview, Chairmans Statement, Operating to the date of approval of the Accounts, and Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 12 are as follows: Going concern include a detailed review of the business The Directors consider, after making and future developments of the Group.
A risk management report is reviewed at enquiries, that the Company has adequate There is regular dialogue with institutional each meeting of the Board of Directors.
resources to continue in operational shareholders, including presentations after This report summarises all foreseen existence for the foreseeable future and, the Companys announcement of the strategic, operational, financial, technical accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt half-year and year-end results, and and environmental risks that could the going concern basis in the preparation following any strategic activity.
Following prevent the achievement of business of the Accounts.
such meetings, minutes are prepared and objectives.
circulated to the whole Board so that they are aware of shareholders views.
All major risks identified in the risk management reports are assessed and The Board uses the Annual General Meeting allocated to specific individuals as as an important means of communication appropriate.
Action plans to mitigate the with private and institutional investors and identified risks are in place.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen A detailed budget is prepared for the of the Audit, Remuneration and following financial year along with a Nomination committees are available at strategic plan for the subsequent three Annual General Meetings to answer years.
Actual results are reported monthly questions.
Details of resolutions to be and compared to both budget and prior proposed at the Annual General Meeting year results.
Operational performance of on 20 February 2004 can be found in the the hotels is reviewed against external Notice of Meeting.
18 fide VERE GROUP PLC STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
