audit committee report The Audit Committee presents a report on its activities during the period.
The Audit Committee Internal audit The Committee has reviewed the auditors The members of the audit committee for The Committee has appointed management letters and the responses by the period under review were as follows:  to undertake the management, and has met with the internal audit function for the Group.
The external auditors three times during the Rory Scott Chairman Committee confirms their programme of period under review.
Gordon Waddell work, and reviews their reports.
The head Robert Mansfield of the internal audit function has direct Financial statements Derek Irish access to both the chairman of the Audit The Committee has reviewed the financial Committee and the Chairman of the statements for the period, and has The audit committee is comprised of Board.
The Committee has met with the considered matters such as the independent non-executives and Derek internal auditors twice during the period consistency of accounting policies, Irish who is a senior partner in an under review.
decisions requiring a major element of independent accounting practice.
The judgement, compliance with accounting Committee met four times during the External audit standards, the going concern assumption period under review, once without The Committee reviews performance of and the statement on internal control management and auditors present.
A the auditors, and the level of audit service systems.
table showing attendance at committee provided.
In the period under review the meetings is available on page 37.
Of the Committee has reviewed the scope of the Other matters committee members, three are qualified interim review and year end audit A revised ethical code, whistleblowing chartered accountants.
Biographical including the Group materiality level.
policy, and procedures for whistleblowers details for all directors can be found on Auditor independence is discussed and will be reviewed by the Committee, pages 12 to 15. confirmed at each meeting.
Within the recommended to the Board and terms of reference the Committee has implemented.
This policy is intended to The Board of Directors has approved agreed that all types and levels of nonassist individuals who believe they have written terms of reference for the Audit audit work must be approved by the discovered serious malpractice or Committee, and a copy of the terms of Committee.
Details of the split between impropriety to take the appropriate action.
reference are available on the Companys audit and non-audit work can be found in A copy of the revised ethical code and website www.
Note 5 of the annual financial statements.
whistleblowing policy will be made The Committee considers that this policy, available on the Companys website.
The main duties and activities of the together with the other controls in place Committee in the period under review can within the Group, are sufficient to ensure be summarised as follows: the objectivity and independence of the auditors.
Non-audit work during the period Internal control has comprised tax compliance work, The Committee has reviewed the forensic work and a treasury review.
effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and procedures for identification, assessment and reporting of risks and has reported to the Board on the outcome of this review.
