corporate governance report This report contains a summary of how the Board has complied with the principles set out in the Combined Code.
As the Company has a September 2003 Biographical details for all the directors Ord has evaluated the individual year end, it is required to report on can be found on pages 12 to 15. performance of the executive directors compliance relating to Section 1 of the using the performance management and Combined Code issued in June 1998, and The Board considers all its present nonperformance review system which has the Company has been in compliance with executive directors, except David Frankel been implemented throughout the Group.
this edition of the code throughout the and Josua Malherbe, to be fully year, except that Jeremy Ord has held the independent in accordance with the Board Operation combined role of chairman and chief definitions under the new Combined Code.
The Board is responsible to the executive.
The Company is working shareholders for the conduct of the towards compliance with the provisions of The Board is aware of the guidance business of the Group, and decides upon the Combined Code issued by the contained in the Combined Code on Group strategy.
It also reviews operational Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, situations where the roles of chairman performance, approves the Group's and this report contains a summary of and chief executive are combined, and is business plans, approves the interim and how the Board has applied the revised seeking to separate the positions.
annual financial statements, determines principles.
The Company has been in the Groups authority levels, treasury compliance with the provisions of the The Board has met five times during the policies and risk management policies, revised code except where stated below.
A table indicating attendance by ensures adequate funding, and approves directors at Board and Committee major investments and the remuneration The Operational Review and the Financial meetings is given at the end of this report.
A defined Review contain detailed reviews of the schedule of matters reserved for decision Groups performance and financial The non-executive directors have met by the Board has been agreed, and this position.
The Board considers these independently without executives present schedule has been revised following reports, along with the Chairmans twice during the year, and in addition revisions to the terms of reference of the Statement and the Directors Report, to communicate telephonically and various board committees.
reflect accurately the Groups position and electronically on a regular basis.
The Directors responsibility for Financial reporting is routinely performed the financial statements is described on Board Training and Evaluation according to a strict schedule.
The directors have received training, both executive directors are provided with individually, and in facilitated sessions as sufficient information to enable them to Board of Directors a board, on issues such as strategy and reach independent conclusions on the During the period, the Board comprised development of the Groups solutions, as matters brought to their attention at board the executive chairman, three further well as the leadership behaviour required meetings.
In addition to the board executive directors and six non-executive to support transformation.
This initiative meetings, detailed briefings are given to directors, including Gordon Waddell as involved an independent board evaluation the non-executive directors by non-board senior independent non-executive director.
and a peer group evaluation of each members, giving non-executives an Effective 17 November 2003 Robert director.
The independent board opportunity to question operational Mansfield resigned from the Board and evaluation was carried out by Ian Mycroft executives directly.
Gordon Waddell sits on Josua Malherbe was appointed to the of the UK-based consultancy, the Groups regional board in Europe and Board.
Josua Malherbe will be standing for Organisation and People Development the UK and Moss Ngoasheng, Rory Scott election at the Annual General Meeting.
It is intended to conduct further and Dorian Wharton-Hood sit on the Gordon Waddell will be continuing as evaluations on board performance as a South African board, which further senior independent non-executive director.
In addition, enhances their depth of understanding of during the period under review, Jeremy the operations of the Group.
Until August 34 DIMENSION DATA 2003 Robert Mansfield sat on the committee are held.
directors and senior executives, having Datacraft Asia Limited board.
considered relevant market norms and Audit Committee independent advice where appropriate.
No The Board ensures that each director is Rory Scott Chairman director is involved in determining his own provided with appropriate and timely Robert Mansfield remuneration.
The Committee also grants information in order to exercise their Gordon Waddell share options in terms of the Share judgement.
All the directors have the Derek Irish Option Scheme 2000. facility to take independent professional advice at company expense, following a The Audit Committee is comprised of Robert Mansfield resigned from the formal procedure that has been approved independent non-executive directors.
committee as at 17 November 2003 and by the Board.
They also have access to Derek Irish, a chartered accountant who a replacement is being sought by the the services and advice of the Company holds a higher diploma in Income Tax law Nomination Committee.
Secretaries in the UK and South Africa.
and is a senior partner in an independent accounting practice, attends the meetings The report of the Remuneration The Board has appointed five committees in order to provide independent advice to Committee is contained on pages 43 to 49. to which it has delegated responsibilities the committee.
The Committee met four to allow it to control the activities of the times last year.
The Groups external and Nomination Committee Company effectively.
Each of these internal auditors attend the meetings and Gordon Waddell Chairman committees operates within defined terms have direct access to the Committee to Robert Mansfield of reference.
The terms of reference of report the results of work directed by the Jeremy Ord the audit, remuneration and nomination Committee as well as any matters of Dorian Wharton-Hood committees were revised during the year concern.
The Chief Financial Officer and under review in line with the Group Executive Finance attend the The committee meets as necessary, and recommendations of the Combined Code.
meetings at the request of the Committee.
has met once during the year under Copies of the terms of reference for the review.
The terms of reference for the audit, nomination and remuneration Robert Mansfield resigned from the nomination committee were revised during committees are available on the committee as at 17 November 2003 and a the period under review.
The nomination Companys website www.
replacement is being sought by the committee is responsible for reviewing the Nomination Committee.
composition of the Board and identifies Executive Committee and makes recommendations to the Board The executive committee has The report of the Audit Committee is regarding the appointment of new responsibility for the day-to-day running of contained on page 38. directors.
It also satisfies itself that the business and the execution of the appropriate succession plans are in place Group's strategy.
The members of the Remuneration Committee for the Board and senior management of executive committee are detailed on page Rory Scott Chairman the Company, and reviews the 15.
There is a clear division of Robert Mansfield performance of non-executive directors to responsibilities between the executive Dorian Wharton-Hood ensure that they have devoted sufficient committee and the Board.
The executive time to their duties.
directors and the Group Chief Operating The Remuneration Committee met four Officer COO meet on a weekly basis, times in the past year.
It operates within Robert Mansfield resigned from the and the COO holds fortnightly meetings defined terms of reference, and committee as at 17 November 2003 and a with the other members of the committee.
recommends to the Board the replacement is being sought by the In addition, quarterly meetings of the full remuneration policies for the Groups Nomination Committee.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 35 corporate governance report Treasury Committee Shareholders are invited to attend the Groups business risks and the Jeremy Ord Annual General Meeting and to pose identification of controls to manage them.
Malcolm Rutherford questions to the Board.
All executive and Risk is assessed with reference to the Patrick Quarmby non-executive directors are expected to business objectives of the Group.
Risks Dorian Wharton-Hood attend this meeting.
identified by the global risk identification and assessment programme are reviewed The Treasury Committee is responsible for Financial and other information about the and monitored, and emerging risks are the control of a prudent framework Group is contained on its website, reported.
covering Board policies, best practice, www.
A copy of the Groups internal controls and reporting systems for annual report is sent to stakeholders and Management in each region are the management of treasury risks within is posted on a dedicated website, responsible for monitoring and controlling the Groups operation.
risk on an ongoing basis, and for reporting Group Executive Finance, and John to the Board any factors which will impact Cookson, the Group Treasurer, also sit on Internal Control on the achievement of their business this committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for the objectives.
A Group Risk Manager has Groups internal controls and for reviewing been appointed from November 2003 to Communication with Shareholders their effectiveness.
The system of internal coordinate and monitor regional activity.
The Group is committed to honest, open control is designed to manage rather than The key business, financial, operational and regular communication to all eliminate risk to which the Group is and compliance risks facing the Group are stakeholders on both financial and nonexposed and provides reasonable rather reported to the Audit Committee, and financial matters.
than absolute assurance against material reviewed by the Board.
The Board has misstatement or loss.
The main features of formally reviewed this process twice The Group reports formally to the Groups system of internal control are during the year.
shareholders when half and full year described below.
results are announced and issued to the Financial reporting relevant stock exchanges, shareholders External audit, internal audit, a value-add A comprehensive budgeting process takes and media.
Executive and senior audit function and risk management report place annually throughout the Group, management also give presentations to to the Audit Committee.
The aim of the culminating in regional budgets that are institutional investors, analysts and the value-add audit is to identify specific areas reviewed and approved by the Board.
The media over the results period.
where systems can be put in place to Chief Financial Officer is responsible for improve controls and enhance determining financial policy within the Regular stakeholder meetings are held to performance and productivity.
The reports Group and the Group Chief Operating update the market on the Groups provided by these functions assist the Officer is responsible for executing these strategies, operations and performance.
Audit Committee in evaluating and financial policies and ensuring compliance Executive and senior management attend reporting to the Board on the strategic, with Group strategy.
The Group Chief these meetings on a regular basis.
All operational and financial controls which Operating Officer is also responsible for briefings and meetings are conducted in the Group has in place.
The Board has establishing the integrity of forecast data line with the Groups written guidelines to conducted a review of the effectiveness of upon which executive decisions are ensure control over price-sensitive the Groups system of internal controls for based.
information and equality of disclosure.
In the year and up to the date of approval of addition, directors are kept informed of the the annual report and accounts.
Each Group operation reports its activity, views of all stakeholders through regular turnover, cash position and forecasts briefings from the investor relations team Risk management weekly to the Group executive.
There is in place an ongoing risk results and cashflows are reviewed management process for evaluation of the monthly, compared with budget, and 36 DIMENSION DATA reported to the Group executive.
The policies and procedures, at a business customers and our internal Executive Committee considers these unit level in each of the regions where the communication, reporting and knowledge against agreed quarterly and annual Group operates.
The security of data held on forecasts and the annual budget, and assistance to management in complying IT systems remains a priority, as does the reports to the Board quarterly.
In addition with their risk management continuous improvement of disaster the Chief Financial Officer gives a detailed responsibilities.
monthly presentation of results to nonexecutives serving on the Board.
Quality and integrity of personnel Controls over central functions The Group is committed to aligning its Treasury and Corporate Finance are Key controls over business unit risks employees with its interests and values.
Treasury policies are include reviews against performance has a published ethical code to which recorded in writing and reviewed as indicators and exception reporting.
Each employees are expected to adhere, and necessary by the Treasury Committee.
business units senior management is transgressions are strictly dealt with.
The Both functions report directly to the Board, responsible for identifying, evaluating and Group has revised its ethical code, and an and whilst not visited by internal audit in managing business risks.
There are ethical conduct declaration exercise has the period under review, both these channels of communication available to been carried out by Datacraft Asia and will functions will be subject to visits by report significant risks to the Board if shortly be conducted with the senior internal audit.
management of all other Group subsidiaries.
The Directors Report and Authority and review Internal audit the Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Group has clearly defined levels of The internal audit function is a structured contain information regarding the Groups authority for the subsidiary boards and review process based on risk assessment.
commitment to employees and ethical their directors in making financial and The Audit Committee regularly reviews the practices.
operational decisions including major work plan and key findings of the internal investments, capital expenditure and audit process and monitors to ensure that IT systems contractual engagements with customers areas of weakness are addressed.
It The Groups IT systems continue to be and suppliers.
The Groups internal audit assesses compliance with financial and consolidated, with a focus on globalisation processes monitor compliance with these operational controls and the Groups of common systems.
This benefits our authority levels.
Attendance at meetings Name Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee JJ Ord 5 n a n a 1 MT Rutherford 5 n a n a n a SM Joubert 5 n a n a n a PK Quarmby 5 n a n a n a DA Frankel 4 n a n a n a RC Mansfield 5 2 3 n a MM Ngoasheng 4 n a n a n a RM Scott 5 3 4 n a GH Waddell 5241 PD Wharton-Hood 5 n a n a 1 D Irish n a 3 n a n a ANNUAL REPORT 2003 37
