ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Report of the directors and in anticipation of the adoption of International with physical disabilities, sport and medical research.
Aga Foodservice Group Charitable Trust also made charitable donations during the year of 19,015 in total Creditor payment policy 2002: 32,000.
No political donations were made during It is Group policy that payment will be made in accordance the year 2002: nil.
with agreed terms, provided the supplier is complying with the relevant terms and conditions, including the Capital gains tax prompt and complete submission of all specified The official price of Aga Foodservice Group plc ordinary documentation.
It is also Group policy to ensure that shares on 31st March 1982, adjusted for the bonus issues suppliers know the terms on which payment will take place made in 1986 and 1988, was 62.4p.
Individual operating businesses within the Group are responsible for establishing Close company status appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their The Company is not a close company within the meaning suppliers.
The Groups trade creditors as at 31st December of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, nor was 2003 equated to 75 days of related purchases 2002: 75 it a close company during the period.
Going concern Employee involvement After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The Group is open in the communication of information expectation that the Company has adequate financial to employees concerning factors affecting their interests resources to continue in operational existence for the in the development of the Group and ensuring their foreseeable future.
For this reason the going concern appropriate involvement.
basis has been adopted in preparing the accounts.
Disabled persons Auditors Appropriate consideration is given to disabled applicants The auditors,  LLP, have expressed in terms of employment.
Furthermore, training, career their willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 10 will development and promotion of disabled persons is be proposed at the AGM to reappoint them as auditors to available, as appropriate, with special attention to the the Company.
particular needs of individuals who become disabled in employment.
By order of the board Political and charitable donations S M Smith During 2003 the Group gave 21,112 2002: 13,745 Secretary to charitable causes.
The principal beneficiaries were Solihull organisations concerned with the arts, children, people 19th March 2004 Corporate governance The board supports the principles of corporate governance appropriate, the guidelines on Corporate Social advocated by the existing Combined Code of the Responsibility CSR issued by the Association of British Committee on Corporate Governance and complied with Insurers.
The board takes full responsibility for CSR and it its provisions in the year under review.
In July 2003, the is included in the risk management process.
Financial Reporting Council published the new Combined Code of Corporate Governance the new Code which will The board of directors apply to the Companys reporting period commencing 1st The board is collectively responsible for setting the January 2004.
During 2003, the Company has taken steps Companys strategic direction, values and standards within to implement the provisions of the new Code and its a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable supporting principles wherever possible and progress risk to be assessed and managed.
It ensures that adequate towards early adoption is documented in this report.
The resources are made available to enable these objectives board has considered and implemented, where to be met.
The executive directors undertake frequent 17 FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate governance reviews of business performance and report regularly to registered office during normal business hours or at the the board.
In July 2003, Vic Cocker entered his second three The board of directors comprises the non-executive year term following a review where it was considered that chairman, four executive directors and five further nonhis performance was effective and demonstrated a executive directors.
Tony Wilson is to step down as a noncontinued commitment.
Details of fees paid to directors executive director at the end of the AGM in May 2004. during the year are set out on page 22.
It is the intention The number of non-executive directors will then reduce to of the board to review non-executive directors fees four.
The directors biographies on page 14 detail those during 2004 in view of the increasing time obligations deemed to be independent.
Other than as stated in Tony and responsibilities required to fulfil these roles.
Wilsons biography the board does not consider there are The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate any relationships or circumstances which may indicate a accountability and participate fully in the review of strategic lack of independence as defined under the new Code.
The proposals, scrutinise performance of management and roles of group chairman and group chief executive are held satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information by separate directors and there is a clear division of to ensure that the interests of shareholders and relevant responsibilities between them.
The chairman is primarily stakeholders in the Company are safeguarded.
responsible for the leadership and effective functioning of The board meets regularly, in total meeting formally the board, ensuring there is appropriate communication nine times during 2003.
All meetings were attended by with shareholders and constructive relationships between all directors, with the exception of Stephen Rennie and the non-executives and executives.
The chief executive is Tony Wilson who owing to prior commitments attended responsible for implementing the boards strategies and eight and seven meetings respectively.
The company secretary During the year, the schedule of matters specifically reports to the chairman upon secretarial matters.
The reserved to the board for decision was reviewed, the current company secretary in conjunction with the chairman is version being approved by the board in January 2004.
The responsible for ensuring that directors receive accurate, schedule clearly states which decisions are to be taken timely and clear information and for ensuring good by the board and which are delegated to management.
information flows within the board and its committees, Matters specifically reserved to the board include corporate facilitating induction and assisting with professional strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, treasury policy, development as required.
authorising material capital expenditure, approval of annual All directors have access to the advice and services of budgets and health, safety and environmental policies.
the company secretary, who, with the chairman, is Management reports fully to the board at each scheduled responsible for the proper conduct of board procedures board meeting and additionally as required.
and advising the board on governance matters.
As the The board takes regular account of significant risks to company secretary is also the executive finance director, the Group including social, environmental and ethical there is clear separation of these roles and the company issues.
It has identified and assessed short and longsecretary does not act as secretary to the meetings of the term risks and ensured that effective systems are in place board committees.
This role is undertaken by the deputy for management of these risks.
This is kept under review by the board.
A performance evaluation of the board and its To assist with the independent conduct of their function, committees was conducted during the year.
This consisted the non-executive directors are able to obtain professional of a detailed questionnaire which was completed by all advice at the Companys expense, if required, in connection directors including a free format element where directors with their duties.
had the opportunity to provide additional comments and All directors are suitably qualified, trained and suggestions.
The findings were discussed by the chairman experienced so as to be able to participate fully in the work and the senior independent director with the non-executive of the board.
During 2003 the senior independent director directors, followed by a meeting with the executives.
Following his appointment as chairman chairman acted on the results of the evaluation which of the board, John Lovering has been appointed as the resulted in several new policies and practices being senior independent director.
introduced primarily to improve information flow.
A more Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term formal evaluation of the individual directors will be of three years pursuant to a standard letter of appointment undertaken in 2004.
In addition, the directors are which is available for inspection at the Companys encouraged to discuss any issues or concerns with the 18 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Corporate governance chairman at any time throughout the year.
satisfied with the level of fees, independence, objectivity It is intended that the chairman will formalise the and effectiveness of the external auditors and has meetings with the non-executive directors which are held recommended reappointment of the auditors to the board.
without the executives being present.
The senior Accordingly, Resolution 10 will propose the reappointment independent director will lead a meeting of the nonof  LLP as auditors to the Company executives to review the chairmans performance.
The board has established the following committees Internal control and risk management which it has delegated specific responsibilities to as The board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal described below.
Each committee has written terms of controls, including internal financial control, operational reference which were reviewed during the course of the year.
and compliance controls and risk management and for The board approved the latest version in January 2004. monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The board The audit committee has been renamed the audit and risk confirms that it has established procedures necessary to committee as this better reflects the responsibilities implement the Guidance for Directors on the Combined delegated to it.
The terms of reference are available on Code.
The meeting calendar and agenda of the board the corporate website www.
com or ensure that risk management and internal control are available on request in writing to the company secretary.
considered on a regular basis throughout the year and Audit and risk committee are subject to continuous review and development.
Grange, The audit and risk committee was chaired by Kit Farrow an associate of the Group, is not dealt with as part of these until March 2003 and since then has been chaired by John internal control procedures.
Lovering who is considered by the board to have significant Throughout the Groups operations, regular managerecent and relevant financial experience.
Membership of ment and board meetings review all aspects of the Groups the audit and risk committee now comprises all the businesses, including those where there are potential risks independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of the to the Group.
Key procedures include planning, budgeting board is not a member of the audit and risk committee.
All operations have quarterly committee met on three occasions during the year and reviews with the executive directors to discuss significant all of the meetings were attended by all of the committee risks, business performance and strategy.
Management, the Groups internal and external Systems of internal control are designed to provide auditors and other persons may be invited to attend the reasonable, but not absolute assurance that the Groups meeting as appropriate.
assets are safeguarded and that the financial information The committee reviews the effectiveness of internal and accounting records are reliable.
controls and monitors the integrity of the Companys interim The board has reserved, for its own approval, those and annual financial statements before submission to major decisions considered significant to the strategy and the board for approval.
The committee receives reports operation of the Group as a whole.
A control structure is from the external and internal auditors and specialists from in place throughout the Group which requires at least two within the Group.
appropriate levels of authorisation for other decisions which The audit and risk committee recognises that there are have a major financial implication for the businesses occasions when it is advantageous to use the auditors for concerned.
Continual monitoring of the systems of internal non-audit work due to their knowledge and understanding financial control is the responsibility of all management of the Group.
Thus the committee has developed a formal teams.
policy on audit and non-audit services to help ensure that The Group has clearly defined guidelines for the the independence and objectivity of the external auditors appraisal, approval and monitoring of acquisitions and is not compromised.
The policy states that non-audit fees divestments, major capital investments and restructuring paid to the principal auditors should not exceed 250% of costs.
These include budgets covering quantification of the audit fee except in the case of a significant event and benefits, detailed review and monitoring procedures, the audit and risk committee chairman is required to specific levels of expenditure authority and due diligence authorise non-audit work above a pre-agreed threshold.
where businesses are being acquired.
Note 3 to the accounts provides a breakdown of audit The board has approved operating policies and controls and non-audit fees during the year under review and for for the Groups treasury activities and receives regular the prior year.
Whilst the necessity of re-tendering is information about them.
In addition, the audit and risk being kept under review, the committee confirms it is committee and the board receive regular reports on the 19 FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate governance Groups insurance and risk management programmes.
appropriate to the business throughout the year.
Directors The head of the Groups internal audit department are encouraged to seek clarification where necessary.
reports to the group finance director and has access to The Company provides resources for developing and the chairman of the audit and risk committee.
The updating its directors knowledge and capabilities as department has an annually agreed programme, which is required.
approved by the audit and risk committee.
The external Prior to each appointment, the committee considers auditors consider the systems of internal financial control, the appropriate skills required to maintain a broad and in conjunction with the internal auditors, to the extent balanced level of expertise on the board.
A job specification necessary to express their audit opinion.
Internal and is drafted including anticipated time requirements for the external auditors report regularly on the results of their role.
The committee has used external search consultants work to management, including executive members of the and taken into consideration the recommendations of board, and to the audit and risk committee.
The board members and other external bodies in the process of will continue to review the effectiveness of the Groups considering candidates.
The committee did not use an internal financial control systems.
external search consultant or open advertising for the An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and appointment of the current chairman as it considered that managing significant risks has been in place for the year Vic Cocker had the appropriate experience, skills, under review as required by the Turnbull Guidance.
knowledge of the business and sufficient time available Following a review of risk across the Group, the basis for to devote to the role.
The current chairman was assessing relevant risks was agreed and disseminated.
independent at the time of his appointment.
The other This ensures that appropriate risk reviews are carried out current significant commitments of the chairman are at each business, taking account of the likelihood of described in his biography on page 14.
The board is occurrence and degree of impact.
Risks considered include formalising its succession planning policy to ensure an operational and financial contingencies and compliance appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained with legal, regulatory and CSR issues.
A full risk and control at board and senior management level.
assessment has been prepared in respect of the year to Remuneration committee 31st December 2003 and will be updated during 2004.
During the year the remuneration committee was chaired Arrangements are in place by which employees may, by Vic Cocker.
From February 2004 it has been chaired in confidence, raise concerns about the possible by Peter Tom.
Membership comprises the independent improprieties of financial reporting and other matters.
The committee met four times Nomination committee during the year and all of the meetings were attended by During the year, the nomination committee was chaired all of the committee members.
The detailed Remuneration by Kit Farrow.
Since his retirement in January 2004, it report is set out on pages 21 to 24. has been chaired by Vic Cocker.
Membership comprises Risk factors the independent non-executive directors and the chief As described above, risks are identified, managed and executive.
The committee met four times during the year.
brought to the attention of the board through the All of the meetings were attended by all of the committee Companys risk management process.
identified no specific risks which might have a material The committee is responsible for ensuring there is a impact on the business.
Risk assessment of CSR issues formal and transparent procedure for the nomination and was introduced in 2002 and whilst the board is confident appointment of directors and committee members and for of the Groups CSR risk position, as the Group expands, ensuring that the board is the appropriate overall size and the review of CSR issues in the supply chain is on-going.
The committee recommends, for approval by the full board, candidates to fill vacancies who have the Communications with shareholders appropriate skills and attributes.
The committee encourages Meetings are held between directors of the Company and candidates to carry out due diligence on the Company and major institutional shareholders at regular intervals as part informs them of the expected time commitments and of the Companys investor relations programme, and as responsibilities, to help nominees to successfully commit necessary in relation to specific issues.
Feedback from to fulfilling their role.
institutional investors is regularly reported to the board.
All directors receive induction information on joining The senior and other independent non-executive directors the board and the Company provides regular updates make themselves available to meet with shareholders if 20
