Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle and The Board has resolved that Mr D R Piette The Remuneration Committee is responsible application of sound corporate governance.
will cease to be the Senior Independent for determining the remuneration of the Director with effect from the close of the Executive Directors, the Chairman of the The Combined Code the Code Annual General Meeting on 3 September Company, the Company Secretary and senior detailing the Principles of Good Corporate 2003 due to his length of service from management.
The Report on Remuneration Governance and Code of Best Practice was October 1993 and that Mr R G Beeston is set out on pages 28 to 34. published in June 1998.
Except as stated on will then become Senior Independent page 30 in respect of notice periods under Director in his place.
The Board and its Committees receive timely past Executive Directors service contracts information of a quality that enables them to Combined Code B1.7, the Company has The Board has delegated certain powers, carry out their roles effectively.
All Directors complied throughout the financial year with mainly of a routine nature, to the General have access to the advice and services of all the provisions of Section 1 of the Code.
Purposes Committee, which comprises the the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in Executive Directors under the chairmanship place for any Director to take independent Board and Board Committees of the Group Chief Executive.
The other professional advice in the furtherance of The role of the Board principal committees of the Board are his duties at the Companys expense.
The The Board is collectively responsible for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Directors are provided with opportunities promoting the success of the Company by Committees.
All of these comprise for training to ensure that they are kept up directing and supervising the Companys independent non-Executive Directors to date on relevant new legislation and affairs.
The Boards role is to provide as required by the Code and all Board changing commercial risks.
leadership of the Company within a committees have written terms of reference framework of prudent and effective controls agreed by the Board.
The Audit Committee Relations with shareholders which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
is chaired by Mr P M Johnson, the The Company has a programme of regular Remuneration Committee is chaired by meetings, site visits and results briefings The Board sets the Companys strategic Mr R G Beeston and the Nomination with its major institutional shareholders, aims and ensures that the necessary financial Committee is chaired by Mr A P Hichens.
which provides an opportunity to discuss and human resources are in place for the The Board has used the criteria proposed by the progress of the business.
The Annual Company to meet its objectives and reviews the National Association of Pension Funds General Meeting is used as an opportunity management performance.
for determining whether a non-Executive to communicate with private shareholders, Director is independent.
including a short presentation on the In addition, the Board sets the Companys business and current trading position as values and standards and ensures that its The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, well as an opportunity for questions from obligations to its shareholders and others which meets at least three times a year, cover investors to the Chairman of the Board and are understood and met.
all the points recommended by the Code.
the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration The Committee monitors the Groups Committees.
Regular communication with The Board currently comprises two Executive accounting and financial procedures and shareholders also takes place through the and five non-Executive Directors.
The offices receives regular reports on the review of annual and interim reports and via the of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are internal controls.
The Committee is also Companys website www.
responsible for the review of the annual accounts and interim statement and The Board meets eight times per year.
meeting with the external Auditor.
All Board members attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings unless The Nomination Committee considers exceptional circumstances prevent them the appointment of directors and makes from attending.
recommendations to the Board as a whole.
New directors are elected to the Board at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment to the Board.
26 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Internal control a formal process for ensuring that key risks they confirmed that their divisions The Board has overall responsibility for the affecting all the Groups operations are have complied with Group policies and Groups system of internal control and for identified and assessed on a regular basis, procedures and reported any significant reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, together with the controls in place to control weaknesses identified during however, can only be designed to manage mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration is the past year.
It also involved reviewing rather than eliminate risk and can therefore embedded in decision making processes.
the results of the work of the Groups provide only reasonable and not absolute The most significant risks are periodically operational audit function and the risk assurance against material misstatement reported to the Board and considered by it: identification and management processes or loss.
In September 1999 the Turnbull identified above.
Committee published guidance on the the preparation and review of comprehensive wider aspects of internal control.
In annual divisional and Group budgets and Going concern accordance with this guidance the Company an annual review and approval by the The Directors, having made appropriate has established the procedures necessary Board of the corporate strategy: enquiries, have a reasonable expectation to ensure that there is an ongoing process that the Group has adequate resources to for identifying, evaluating and managing the monthly reporting of actual results continue in operational existence for the the significant risks to the Group.
These and their review against budget, forecasts foreseeable future.
For this reason, they procedures have been in place for the whole and the previous year, with explanations continue to adopt the going concern basis of the financial year ended 30 April 2003 obtained for all significant variances: in preparing the accounts on pages 38 to 63. and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements.
The Board determines clearly defined policies for capital the objectives and broad policies of the expenditure and investment, including Group.
It meets regularly and there is a appropriate authorisation levels, with schedule of matters which are required to larger capital projects, acquisitions and be brought to it for decision.
The Board has disposals requiring Board approval: delegated to management the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control procedure manuals laying down common appropriate to the business environments in control procedures and policies to apply which the Group operates.
Key elements of throughout the Group: this system include: formal quarterly meetings between central a set of Key Corporate Values which have and divisional management to discuss been communicated to all concerned: strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Groups operational audit function a clearly defined divisionalised organisation undertakes regular reviews of the Groups structure for monitoring the conduct and operations and their systems of internal operations of individual business units: control.
The work of the function is overseen by the Audit Committee, which clear delegation of authority throughout regularly reviews its plans and activities.
the Group, starting with the matters The Directors can confirm that they have reserved for the Board: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This exercise included a process of self-certification by senior divisional management in which 27 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
