Corporate Governance Introduction The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the Combined Code of Corporate Governance the Code published in 1998 and issued by the Financial Services Authority as an Appendix to its Listing Rules.
The Board has reviewed its corporate governance policies and practices in the light of revised Code published in July 2003 which will apply to the financial year commencing on 1 January 2004.
The Board intends to support the provisions of this revised code and this statement reports on any provisions with which the Group may not initially comply on 1 January 2004.
Board Meetings and Responsibilities Corporate governance is the responsibility of all Directors.
The Board meets at least six times a year.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over a defined limit, annual budgets, new Group borrowing facilities and significant changes to employee benefit schemes.
There is a distinct and defined division of responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the business and for the implementation of the strategy agreed by the Board.
However, it should be noted that following the death of Mr P J Harrower on 30 December 2002, the Chairman assumed the responsibilities of Group Chief Executive until the appointment of Mr R C Soames on 1 July 2003.
The division of responsibilities between the Non-executive Chairman and the Group Chief Executive were immediately restored following the appointment of Mr Soames.
Independent Directors The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Group Chief Executive, four other Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors: their details are set out on pages 22 and 23.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Company and are considered by the Board to be independent as defined in the revised Code.
The Board has specifically considered the independence of Mr A C Salvesen who is himself a significant shareholder and holds just under 3% of the issued share capital.
The Board does not consider that this holding will impact Mr Salvesens independence.
The Board has also satisfied itself that none of the Non-executive Directors represent any other shareholder or group of shareholders.
Mr N H Northridge has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director and together with the two other Non-executive Directors provides a strong and independent element on the Board.
The revised Code states that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent Non-executive Directors.
However, the Directors believe that to achieve this balance, requiring the appointment of two additional Directors, would cause the Board to be unwieldy.
Re-election of Directors One third of the members of the Board must retire by rotation each year and may offer themselves for re-election if eligible.
The Board has also resolved that all of its members must submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals of at least every three years.
Any Director appointed by the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after his or her appointment and will not be taken into account in determining the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Standing Committees The Board has standing Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, the memberships of which are detailed on pages 22 and 23.
Each committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and the minutes of the committee meetings are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
The Audit Committee currently comprises three Non-executive Directors.
It normally meets at least three times a year under the chairmanship of Mr R V McGlone.
Although they are not members, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors normally attend these meetings.
The internal and external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee Chairman at all times.
The nature and scope of the audits are discussed with the external and internal auditors in advance and matters arising from their work and the accounts are reviewed.
The Committee also aims to ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group, reflecting the determination of the Board to ensure that internal financial control procedures are of a high standard.
Written and verbal reports from the Head of Internal Audit are received by the Committee on a regular basis.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 29 Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised of three Non-executive Directors.
It meets at least twice a year and is under the chairmanship of Mr N H Northridge.
Its primary function is to determine the Companys policy on Board remuneration and to approve the specific terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors and senior managers, including the basis on which performance related awards are calculated.
The Committee also determines the terms on which any employee share or share option schemes are to be offered and the basis of invitations to participate.
The fees payable to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are established by the full Board.
However, with effect from 1 January 2004 the Remuneration Committee will also make recommendations to the Board in respect of the fees to be paid to the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and includes the Non-executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
Its responsibilities are to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment of new Directors, including the Chairman.
The terms of reference of the standing committees of the Board are available on our website at www.
Relations with Shareholders The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 64 to 66 sets out the resolutions that will be proposed.
The Board supports the use of this meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and encourages their participation.
The Company is ready, where practicable, to enter into a dialogue with institutional shareholders, analysts and investors.
Senior executives seek to meet regularly with institutional and major shareholders to improve their understanding of the Company and its objectives.
Internal Control Monitoring Risk The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that are considered significant by the Group.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of Internal Control as well as significant risk issues.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring framework covers a wide range of controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls together with risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and considering whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified is promptly remedied.
The Board continues to enhance and strengthen the procedures for identifying and monitoring of key areas of risk.
The Board also considers financing and investment decisions concerning the Group and monitors the policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by the Board which also approves self-insured exposures.
A comprehensive procedure for monitoring all significant risks has been in operation throughout the year and key risks have been identified on a risk register.
The Board has considered the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that would be taken in response to them if they did occur.
Review of Effectiveness In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
On an annual basis the Board undertakes a formal review which is designed to assess the application of the principal financial and operational controls operated by the Group.
The review, which is based on self-assessment by senior operational management, is carried out using a risk review and control questionnaire and is intended to complement the internal and external audit procedures.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 During the year the Audit Committee of the Board reviews the external and internal audit work programmes and considers reports from internal and external auditors on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives responses from management regarding the actions taken on issues identified in audit reports.
The Board has also undertaken a specific assessment of internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the year ended 31 December 2003.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group continues to have an effective system of internal control.
Corporate Responsibility The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure that it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, which protects the environment as well as safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its customers and the communities in which it operates.
These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and responsibly manage environmental, health and safety risks through implementation of a comprehensive Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management System that standardises best operating practices, objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, performance indicators and goals.
These policies are set out in more detail on pages 18 to 20.
Pensions The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are controlled by trustees: they are held separately from the assets of the Company and invested by independent fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two membernominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: new employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Compliance with the Code As noted under Board Meetings and Responsibilities, between 30 December 2002 and 1 July 2003, the Chairman assumed the responsibilities of Group Chief Executive.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive were restored following the appointment of Mr R C Soames on 1 July 2003.
With the exception of this item, the Directors consider that the Group complies and has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 with all of the Provisions of the Code.
The revised Code that will apply from 1 January 2004 states that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of independent Non-executive Directors: however, the Directors believe that to achieve this balance would cause the Board to be unwieldy.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 1 March 2004 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 31
