Corporate governance Principles statement In June 1998 the London Stock Exchange adopted guidelines for corporate governance in the form of the Combined Code, which consolidated all prior guidance on such matters.
A summary of how the provisions of that code have been applied, together with a compliance statement, is provided below.
During the year, reports on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors the Higgs report and on audit committees the Smith report were released.
The Board has reviewed the recommendations of these reports and has determined that easyJet complies with the vast majority of the recommendations that are applicable to the Companys circumstances.
Notwithstanding this, the Board has initiated actions to enhance its level of compliance.
The major elements of these reports have been incorporated into a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003, which will supersede and replace the existing Combined Code for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003, and which will therefore impact easyJet for the financial year ending 30 September 2005 and thereafter.
Board of Directors As at 30 September 2003, the Board comprised six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors, as set out on page 32 of this report.
The roles of Chairman Sir Colin Chandler and Chief Executive Ray Webster are separated and clearly defined.
Anthony Illsley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company regards Sir Colin Chandler, Colin Day, Nick Hartley, Anthony Illsley and Diederik Karsten as independent non-executive directors.
Until November 2002, Nick Hartley provided services to private companies in which Stelios Haji-Ioannou had a interest.
Since that time, his consultancy services have ceased and he has stepped down from the boards of easyCar Limited and easyInternetcafe Limited.
He remains the chairman of Stelmar Shipping.
As a consequence, the easyJet Board debated whether Nick Hartley should be considered independent and agreed that he should be considered to be so.
The Combined Code states that the holding of share options could be relevant to the determination of a non-executive directors independence.
Share options were granted to some of the independent non-executive directors just prior to admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority in November 2000 and at the end of that financial year.
In 2002, after discussion with shareholder lobby groups, those directors agreed that they would exercise their options as soon as is reasonably practical after the date that they are allowed to do so.
The Board has considered the holding of these options and was aware of them at the time that it made its judgement as to which directors are to be considered independent.
The judgement was made on the basis that the number of options was insignificant in relation to the financial affairs of each independent director.
Stelios Haji-Ioannou stepped down as Chairman and as a director on 26 November 2002.
On that date Sir Colin Chandler assumed the chairmanship.
John Quelch stepped down as a non-executive director on 14 February 2003.
There are matters which are reserved to the Board by virtue of a resolution of the Board.
These include matters relating to share issues, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, connected party transactions, borrowings and guarantees, material contracts, capital expenditure, shareholder and investor relations, officers and employees, treasury policies, risk management policies, donations, litigation, strategy, internal control, budgets, accounting issues and authority levels.
By resolution, the Board has delegated certain authorities to management.
This delegation covers areas such as finance expenditure, treasury and the sale of assets, revenue management, customer compensation, contracts, leases, employment and business development.
easyJet Annual report and accounts 2003 25 Corporate governance continued The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
This direct contact, together with feedback from management and from the Companys two sponsors UBS and Credit Suisse First Boston, is used to brief the Board.
In addition, the Board has sought direct feedback from sources who are independent of easyJet.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chairman to be the conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
The Board meets regularly, with 18 meetings being held during the year ended 30 September 2003.
All members of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be considered.
Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 17 18 Anthony Illsley 17 18 Amir Eilon 15 18 Colin Day 17 18 Nick Hartley 18 18 Diederik Karsten 14 18 Ray Webster 18 18 Chris Walton 17 18 Directors who resigned during the year: Stelios Haji-Ioannou 4 4 John Quelch 49 The Chairman confers with other non-executive directors on a regular basis, without the executive directors present.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary.
They have access to resources and funding through the Company Secretary.
During the year, the Chairman undertook a performance review of the Board, using an external evaluation framework.
The process involved structured interviews with directors and management.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting AGM.
At each AGM one-third of the directors will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment.
Non-executive directors are appointed for three-year terms, after which time they may offer themselves for re-election.
Executive directors are not appointed for specific terms, however, in practice each director will normally serve a term no longer than three years due to the required retirement by rotation of one-third of the Board at each AGM.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Anthony Illsley the Chairman, Colin Day and Nick Hartley.
This committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys share option schemes, the committee has met seven times during the year, with all members attending each meeting.
26 easyJet Annual report and accounts 2003 The Board has discussed the composition of the Remuneration Committee and is satisfied that the directors who are members of this committee are those who are best able to contribute to the committees objectives.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Anthony Illsley 77 Colin Day 77 Nick Hartley 77 By invitation: Ray Webster 37 Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
The Audit Committee members are Colin Day Chairman, Anthony Illsley and Diederik Karsten.
This committee meets at least three times per year and has responsibility for, amongst other things, planning and reviewing easyJets annual and other reports and accounts and the involvement of the Groups auditor in that process, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements and accounting standards.
Additionally, the Audit Committee monitors compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority and seeking to ensure that an effective system of internal financial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
In order to preserve auditor independence, the Board has decided that the auditors will not be used for consulting services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
The auditors are asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that they have taken to ensure their independence.
easyJet then monitors the auditors performance and behaviour during the exercise of their duties.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.5 million 2002: 1.9 million with KPMG in respect of non-audit services and 1.0 million 2002: 0.9 million with other parties who are entitled to act as registered auditors.
As a result, KPMGs share of this spend has reduced from 68% in 2002 to 33% in the current financial year.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Audit Committee and is satisfied that the directors who are members of this committee are those who are best able to contribute to the committees objectives.
The Chairman of the committee Colin Day is the Chief Financial Officer of a major FTSE 100 company, which the Board considers to be recent and relevant experience.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Colin Day 33 Anthony Illsley 33 Diederik Karsten 23 By invitation: Ray Webster 13 Chris Walton 33 In January 2003, a report was issued by Sir Robert Smith on the effectiveness of audit committees.
The recommendations in the report were reviewed by the Audit Committee.
It is satisfied that it conducts its business in an appropriate manner.
easyJet Annual report and accounts 2003 27 Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee As at 30 September 2003, the Nominations Committee members are Sir Colin Chandler Chairman plus any two of Nick Hartley, Colin Day and Anthony Illsley.
This committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.
In appointing non-executive directors, the Boards practice is to use an external recruitment agency.
This was the case in the most recent appointment to the Board, which was the Chairman in April 2002.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 1 1 Colin Day 11 Anthony Illsley 11 Nick Hartley 11 Director who resigned during the year: Stelios Haji-Ioannou By invitation: Ray Webster 11 Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts on key business issues.
The Group has an investor relations manager.
It is the Companys policy that the following procedures should be adhered to with respect to AGMs: All proxy votes are counted and read out at the AGM: Separate resolutions are proposed for each separate issue: The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available for any questions at the meetings: and It is the Companys intention that notice of the forthcoming AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before that meeting.
Combined Code statement of compliance The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code June 1998 during the year, with the exception of the following: a During a portion of the year, the Remuneration Committee has not comprised wholly independent nonexecutive directors.
The Board has satisfied itself that the directors who are members of this committee are those who are best able to contribute to its objectives: and b Prior to admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority, the easyJet Group granted share options without performance criteria attached to them.
The majority of these options remain outstanding.
Options granted since December 2000 have had performance conditions attached.
The Group does not intend to grant further share options to employees without attaching performance conditions to their exercise.
Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors of the Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate 28 easyJet Annual report and accounts 2003 the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Guidance for directors, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, was published in September 1999, in the form of the Turnbull Guidance.
The Company complied with the guidance throughout the year ended 30 September 2003.
A formal ongoing process has been established to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Company and this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and this has been regularly reviewed by the Board during the period.
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the Company directors and has been adopted as follows: Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted continuously by the Quality Group, in weekly meetings, including Commercial Operations, Marketing and Finance, and in monthly Executive Committee meetings, where individual department and overall business performance is reviewed.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise: An internal control function has been established which considers, reviews and tests internal control matters throughout the Group.
This is not an internal audit function, but is an addition to existing processes within easyJet.
The new function considers, reviews and tests internal control matters throughout the Group: The Board considers the current significant risks at each of its formal meetings: Management considers current significant business risks in formal monthly meetings: Risk reviews form an integral part of specific projects, such as the acquisition of Go Fly and the decision to select Airbus as a new aircraft fleet supplier: An annual risk and control identification process, together with control effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks to significant business objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the desired level are identified.
The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board which considers whether these high level risks are effectively controlled: Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified: and A register of all risks has been created forming a key risk register for the Company.
The directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: and Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from external auditors.
Internal audit The Company does not have an internal audit function.
This is presently considered appropriate given the size of the Company and the close involvement of executive directors and senior management on a day-to-day operational basis.
The Board has considered the need for such a function and will continue to review the need for one from time to time.
Going concern The directors are satisfied, after due consideration, that the Group has sufficient financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, they continue to adopt the going concern principle in preparing the financial statements.
easyJet Annual report and accounts 2003 29
