Corporate Governance EMI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board as a whole considers the appointment of Directors The Board considers that the Company has complied and executive appointments within the Board, based on throughout the year with the Code Provisions set out in recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
The Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Committee on Articles of Association include a requirement that all Directors Corporate Governance, apart from those relating to the length should submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders of Directors service contracts, which are discussed in the at least once every three years.
Remuneration Report on pages 47 and 48.
The Board meets at least seven times each year, with Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed the Companys statement additional meetings or contact between meetings as as to its compliance with the Combined Code, in so far as it necessary.
The programme for each year is approved by the relates to those parts of the Combined Code which the UK Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy Listing Authority specifies for its review, and its report is set together with the operations and results of the two main out on page 57. business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets.
Actual results for the Group and individual business units are The remainder of this section provides an explanation of how reported to all Directors each month.
At least once each year EMI applies the principles of good governance that are set out the Board meets at the premises of one of the Groups in the Combined Code.
business operations, to allow for presentations by, and more detailed discussions with, local management.
The Board The Board of EMI currently comprises four Executive Directors These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc and five Non-executive Directors.
All of the Non-executive reports, are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in Directors are considered to be independent of management a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the and free from any business or other relationship that could discharge of its duties.
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that this includes Dr Harald The Board has delegated certain matters to standing Einsmann who has been a Non-executive Director since 1992. committees, details of which are set out below.
However, to As reflected in their biographies, which appear on pages ensure its overall control of the Companys affairs, the Board 37 and 38, the Directors have a wide and balanced range has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
These of experience in multinational and consumer-orientated include the Groups strategic plans and annual operating businesses.
budgets, significant acquisitions or disposals of companies, businesses or assets, and significant contractual Eric Nicoli is executive Chairman of the Company, which commitments or items of expenditure, together with policies incorporates the role of chief executive officer.
Day-to-day relating to the Groups treasury function, pensions, major executive responsibility for the running of the Companys two litigation, employee share schemes, and environmental main businesses lies with Alain Levy, as Chairman and Chief and ethical issues.
Executive Officer, EMI Recorded Music, and Martin Bandier, as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, EMI Music All Directors have access to the services and advice of the Publishing, who each report to Eric Nicoli.
There are also procedures for Directors, in appropriate circumstances, to obtain independent In recent years, and as explained in previous Annual Reports, professional advice at the cost of the Company.
the Board has concluded that EMI has been best served by the CEOs of the Recorded Music and Music Publishing The Executive Directors are permitted to take external businesses reporting to an executive chairman who appointments as non-executive directors but, usually only complements their music industry skills.
The Board has further one such appointment may be of another publicly quoted concluded that the interposition of another senior executive company.
They may retain the remuneration from such over the business CEOs would lead to unnecessary appointments.
All appointments must be approved by duplication and diffusion of responsibility.
the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
The Board considers that, for the present, the structure outlined above is the most effective for EMI and is in the best Board committees interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Furthermore, the Board considers that the nature and level of Remuneration, Nomination and Executive Committees.
matters reserved for decision, either to the Board as a whole Reflecting the important role played by the independent Nonor to standing committees of the Board, appropriately limit the executive Directors in ensuring high standards of corporate authority of the Chairman and reflect the combination of the governance, the Audit and Remuneration Committees posts of chairman and chief executive officer in one person.
comprise all the Non-executive Directors.
Each committee has written terms of reference and levels of authority and, It is the Boards policy that, so long as the Chairman is also except in the case of the Remuneration Committee, minutes the chief executive officer of the Company, the independent of meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Non-executive Directors should comprise a numerical majority of the Board and that the senior independent Non-executive Director should also be either sole or joint Deputy Chairman.
Between 7 May and 19 July 2002 and from 1 September 2002 to 13 May 2003, there have been four Non-executive Directors: for the short period from 19 July to 1 September 2002, there were three such Directors.
The number of Non-executive Directors increased to five on 13 May 2003.
Sir Dominic Cadbury is the senior independent Non-executive Director.
41 Corporate Governance continued The role of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired Directors responsibilities by Sir Dominic Cadbury, is described on page 44.
It meets UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial at least three times each year.
The main responsibilities and statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair procedures of the other three principal Committees are as view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as well follows: as the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Audit Committee chaired by Kathleen ODonovan and comprising all the Non-executive Directors makes select suitable accounting policies and then apply them recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment consistently: of the external auditor.
Each year the Audit Committee reviews make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor with prudent: and, a view to confirming that, in its opinion, the maintenance of state whether applicable accounting standards have been objectivity on the one hand and value for money on the other followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and have been kept appropriately in balance.
In this context, the explained in the financial statements.
Committee currently considers that it is appropriate for the external auditor to provide to the Group tax compliance and The Directors confirm that they have complied with these other accounting services, including those in connection with requirements in preparing the financial statements on pages supporting and reporting on financial representations in public 58 to 89. documentation.
The provision of these and other financial services continues to be assessed by the Committee on a The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting case-by-case basis.
records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure The Committee reviews the half-year and annual financial that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act statements, with particular reference to accounting policies 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and practices, and the scope and results of the audit.
It also of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the reviews the Groups system of internal control including the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
risk assessment and audit plan of the Internal Audit Department and other control procedures.
The Committee Going concern meets three times each year and its meetings are normally The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider attended by the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to and the Vice President, Internal Audit.
At least once each continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
year the Committee meets with the external auditor without the For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern presence of Executive Directors or other management.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
Nomination Committee chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury and Internal control comprising all the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These can only Directors and the reappointment of Non-executive Directors provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against on the expiry of their three-year term of appointment.
The material misstatement or loss.
The full Board meets regularly throughout the year and the Executive Committee chaired by the Chairman and matters specifically reserved for its approval ensure that the comprising the chief executive officers of the Companys two Directors maintain control over significant strategic, financial main businesses, together with the Chief Financial Officer and compliance matters.
responsible for the approval of acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and contractual commitments below the The Group has an established organisational structure with level that the Board has reserved to itself for decision, and for clearly defined lines of responsibility and reporting.
The Board certain operational, administrative and other routine matters.
has devolved to executive management responsibility for The Committee also regularly reviews and reports to the Board implementing and maintaining the Groups system of internal on the performance of the Groups businesses.
Each business unit operates in accordance with meets at least ten times each year and senior Group executives policies and procedures applicable to all of the Groups units.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54 gives information about the Directors remuneration.
42 The Group operates comprehensive annual planning, The Board is aware of the disclosure guidelines on social financial reporting and forecasting processes.
The Board responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers and formally approves strategic plans and annual budgets.
has approved a social responsibility policy for the Group, The Groups performance is monitored against budget on covering environmental, employment, community and human a monthly basis and all significant variances are investigated.
rights issues as well as product values and supplier There are defined authorisation procedures in respect of relationships.
This provides an integrated top-level policy over certain matters, including capital expenditure, investments, more detailed policies and codes covering the individual areas.
the granting of guarantees and the use of financial instruments.
The Board also receives, twice yearly, a review of all material Existing risk assessment procedures cover social, ethical litigation undertaken by or against the Groups companies and environmental issues.
Additionally, the Group has begun and considers the associated risks.
a comprehensive review of its risk management programme that will include a review of the way in which it assesses and The strength of an internal control system is dependent on the monitors significant social, ethical and environmental issues.
quality and integrity of management and staff: those at senior A Social Responsibility Report formerly the Environment and levels are informed about their responsibilities as to the Community Report is published annually.
maintenance of sound systems of internal control.
A routine Group-wide process, which requires key executives and The Audit Committee receives additional assurance on the managers to certify their compliance with the Groups policies operation of internal control systems around the Group, and procedures, reinforces this integrity.
primarily from Internal Audit, which presents the conclusions of its reviews twice a year.
The external auditor also takes The internal audit function operates as one Group-wide internal financial control into consideration as part of its audit.
department which monitors and supports the internal control In addition, incidences of control failure and the internal control system and reports both to the Audit Committee and the implications of significant business issues are recorded in Groups senior management.
The responsibilities of the a central register, from which a summary report is prepared internal audit function include recommending improvements for the Audit Committee.
Appropriate actions are taken to in the control environment and ensuring compliance with the rectify any control failures.
Any significant new issues and Groups procedures and policies.
The Audit Committee material changes to the risk environment are reported at each reviews the risk assessment and audit plan prepared by Board meeting.
The processes by which the Board receives assurance on the An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing effectiveness of the control systems did not apply during the the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for year to HMV Group plc, in which the Group ceased to have the year under review and up to the date of this Report.
This a minority investment on 22 November 2002.
Potential risks process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with to EMI were mitigated during that period through its the requirements of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors representation on the Board of HMV Group and rights under on the Combined Code.
During the year to 31 March 2003, significant potential risks Investor relations facing the Group have been assessed and graded in a The Group is committed to regular and open dialogue with process involving line and functional management throughout investors.
The Executive Directors hold discussions with the Group and internal audit.
The controls in place to manage institutional shareholders and analysts and, in addition, there or mitigate each risk were reviewed for adequacy, and the are general presentations after the announcement of the halfprocesses to monitor and inform the Board about control year and annual results.
Individual shareholders have the performance were confirmed.
This assessment, which is opportunity to question the Chairman and other Directors reviewed by the Audit Committee, is repeated annually.
at the AGM and can meet them informally after the AGM.
The risk and control assessment is also shared with senior Results announcements and other press releases are made management throughout the Group.
During the review of available on the Groups website as soon as possible after controls, particular attention was paid to those in place to their publication.
manage or mitigate any potential risks associated with major artist investments.
