Compliance Exel has applied the principles contained in the existing Combined 2.
The Board Code of the Committee on Corporate Governance the Code 2.1 Board balance and independence during the year and this Report describes how Exel has complied 2.2 Appointments to the Board with the Codes provisions.
2.3 Information and professional development 2.4 Performance evaluation The Board considers that the Company complied throughout the 2.5 Board attendance year with the existing Codes provisions.
Board and management committees 3.1 Audit Committee In July 2003, a new version of the Combined Code the new Code 3.2 Remuneration Committee was published which will apply to financial years beginning on or 3.3 Nomination Committee after 1 November 2003.
Although Exel is not required to comply 4.
Internal controls and risk management with the new Code for the year ended 31 December 2003, Exel has 4.1 Basis for disclosure taken steps to comply with it, and this report describes how the 4.2 System of internal controls principles of the new Code have been applied and where the Board 5.
Corporate social responsibility believes it is in compliance with the new Codes provisions.
Shareholder relations the Company is not in compliance with the new Codes provisions, 6.1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders an explanation as to why this is so has been provided.
6.2 Constructive use of the AGM 2.
The Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group, establishes policies and monitors operational performance and internal controls.
Items approved by the Board include annual budgets, medium-term business plans, financial reporting to shareholders, major acquisitions, disposals, projects and contract renewals, significant capital expenditure, financing proposals and issues relating to corporate social responsibility CSR.
Certain issues are delegated to duly authorised committees of the Board, as described below.
The Board reviewed and approved Exels strategy at its meeting in September 2003.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times a year.
In addition to Board meetings held at Head Office, the Board meets at site locations on at least two occasions during the year, at least one of which includes a visit to one of the Groups locations outside the UK.
In September 2003, the Board met in Chicago and visited operations in the area.
During 2003, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met once without the Chief Executive or the other executive Directors present for part of the meeting.
Following a review of the Boards effectiveness, the Senior Independent Director will arrange a meeting of non-executive Directors once a year without the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive Directors present.
The Company arranges comprehensive Directors and Officers liability insurance cover which the Board regards as appropriate and adequate in the circumstances.
2.1 Board balance and independence The Board considers that 12 Directors is the right number for it to operate effectively whilst ensuring the Board has the appropriate range of skills and experience.
The Board comprised six executive Directors, five non-executive Directors and the Chairman throughout the year.
For a brief period since John McDonoughs appointment on 1 February 2004, there have been six non-executive Directors.
However, this will reduce again to five as John Loudon will retire by rotation at the AGM on 22 April 2004 and will not seek re-election.
03 Governance Corporate governance Exel plc Annual Report 2003 23 Corporate governance continued There is no present intention to alter this composition.
The Board A procedure is in place so that Directors are able, if required, to seek considers that ensuring individual Directors participate fully and independent professional advice at the Companys expense in independently in decision-making is more important to achieve connection with their duties.
The Company Secretary, who is Secretary a balance of power than the precise split of executive and nonto all Board committees, has responsibility for ensuring that Board executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures that the non-executive procedures are followed and is accountable to the Board, through Directors challenge the Companys management, put forward their the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The appointment and views and perform their duties in a rigorous and robust manner.
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and The Directors biographies, including those seeking election and services of the Company Secretary.
re-election at the 2004 AGM, and the composition of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out on pages There is ongoing training of existing Directors with the emphasis 20 and 21. on legal, regulatory and accounting developments.
The Company Secretary advises the Board through the Chairman on governance The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the matters.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with relevant Chief Executive is clearly established.
The Chairman leads the Board, training on their role and responsibilities.
A comprehensive ensures its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and sets the agenda induction programme was adopted and is in progress for Dennis for meetings.
Millard and John McDonough, the most recent additions to the Board.
This programme includes presentations from management, The Board considers five of its non-executive Directors to be site visits and training in regulatory and technical areas such as legal independent in the sense outlined in the new Code.
John Loudon and accounting matters.
will not be seeking re-election at the AGM on 22 April 2004.
2.4 Performance evaluation The Board has appointed Sir William Wells as Senior Independent A comprehensive appraisal of the Boards performance, based Director.
Sir William is available to shareholders in circumstances on structured interviews conducted by the Company Secretary, was where the usual channels of communication with the Company performed in 2003 and its results reviewed by the Chairman.
The issues have failed to resolve an issue or where such contact is inappropriate.
and proposed changes identified were discussed in detail with the Board, both collectively and individually, and appropriate action As required by the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors was taken during the course of 2003. are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and a minimum of one third of Directors must It is proposed that in 2004 the evaluation will be based on retire at each AGM.
In addition, any Director aged 70 or over must a questionnaire which will focus on committee effectiveness.
stand for re-election to the Board every year.
2.5 Board attendance 2.2 Appointments to the Board The following table shows the Directors attendance at scheduled Using the example of the two recent appointments to the Board, Board and Board committee meetings during 2003: the Board debated and established the set of skills and attributes plc Audit Remuneration Nomination required by the candidates based on an evaluation by the Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee.
An external search consultant was appointed who Number of scheduled selected candidates according to the criteria identified by the Board.
meetings in 2003 8451 The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director interviewed Nigel Rich 8451 short-listed candidates.
The Chief Executive and the Deputy Chief John Allan 8 1 Executive also interviewed the preferred candidate.
The Directors John Coghlan 8 were given the opportunity to speak to the candidate and vice versa.
Bruce Edwards 8 Details of the composition and role of the Nomination Committee Mick Fountain 8 are set out below.
Jean-Claude Guez 8 5 1 Tony Isaac 44 The Board has considered succession planning in relation to senior John Loudon 6 4 management and the results of a review of management succession 2 Dennis Millard 31 conducted in 2003 were presented to the non-executive Directors David Riddle 8 in January 2004.
Ian Smith 8 Fritz Ternofsky 8 4 2.3 Information and professional development Sir William Wells 8 5 1 The format, quality and supply of information provided to the Board was reviewed as part of the Board appraisal process conducted in 2003.
The Company Secretary manages the process of supplying 1.
Tony Isaac attended 4 out of 6 Board meetings before he resigned Board papers, reports and other information to the Directors.
The as Director on 29 September 2003.
Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly 2.
Dennis Millard attended all Board meetings after his appointment briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
All non-executive as Director on 25 September 2003.
Directors have independent access to the external auditors.
Corporate governance Exel plc Annual Report 2003 24 3.
Board and management committees The Audit Committee provides a line of communication between the The three principal Board committees are the Audit, Remuneration Board and the Companys external and internal auditors.
Its principal and Nomination Committees.
All these committees have written functions include ensuring that appropriate financial standards are terms of reference which are available on the website or on request established and maintained throughout the Group, reviewing the from the Company Secretary.
Groups accounting policies, financial control systems and related matters and making recommendations to the Board as and when The need to ensure that committee membership is refreshed necessary.
The Committee meets the Companys internal and has been considered.
The membership of the Audit Committee external auditors without the Companys management being was reviewed and change has been effected as detailed below.
present at the end of each meeting.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, as well as the independence and objectivity Only the chairmen and members of the committees are entitled of the external auditors, and monitors and approves the level and to be present at committee meetings.
However, all non-executive extent of non-audit services provided to the Company by the external Directors are invited to attend all Audit Committee meetings and auditors.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations executive Directors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external where the Companys preliminary and interim results are considered.
It also approves the appointment and termination of appointment of the Companys Head of Global Audit and Assurance.
As part of the 2003 Board appraisal process, the committee chairmen confirmed that they had access to sufficient resources to carry out 3.2 Remuneration Committee their duties.
During 2003, the Remuneration Committee comprised three non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
Mr Loudon will not The Executive Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of seek re-election as Director when he retires by rotation at the AGM the senior executives identified on page 21 and the executive Directors, and will therefore cease to be a member of the Remuneration with the exception of David Riddle.
It holds monthly meetings, half Committee.
At present, it is not envisaged that another member of which are via conference call for those executives based outside of the Board will be appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
The responsibilities of the Executive Board cover the Companys The Remuneration Committee meets at least four times a year contract logistics and freight management activities and include and met on five occasions in 2003.
Its responsibilities include setting global strategy, international account development, resource remuneration policy, ensuring that the remuneration and terms of management, strategic IT issues, the review and approval of service of the executive Directors are appropriate and that Directors acquisitions and projects before they are submitted to the Board are fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the Companys and CSR matters.
It also ensures that the allocation of share options to senior employees and the participation of executives in Other key committees include the Acquisition Review Board, the Long Term Incentive Plan are on a fair and equitable basis and which meets monthly to review potential acquisitions and disposals, in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
A separate report the Project Review Board, which meets monthly to review new on Directors remuneration is included on pages 28 to 38. business, contract renewal proposals and new IT projects and the Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly to review 3.3 Nomination Committee risk management, insurance, CSR and health and safety issues.
The Nomination Committee comprising the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive, meets as necessary, 3.1 Audit Committee and at least once a year.
The Audit Committee comprising three non-executive Directors meets at least three times a year and met on four occasions during 2003.
The Nomination Committees principal functions are to review the Tony Isaac resigned as Chairman of the Audit Committee when he structure, size and composition of the Board and the membership resigned from the Board on 29 September 2003.
Dennis Millard was of Board committees.
Nigel Rich chairs the Nomination Committee.
appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee following his appointment During 2003, the Committee met once to evaluate the set of skills to the Board on 25 September 2003.
He is Group Finance Director and attributes required by candidates for forthcoming vacancies of Cookson Group plc and therefore has recent and relevant on the Board, to consider re-election to the Board of those Directors financial experience.
With effect from 1 February 2004, Nigel Rich retiring by rotation at the 2004 AGM, to consider succession planning left the Audit Committee and was replaced by John McDonough.
at Board level and to review the composition of the committees.
03 Governance Corporate governance Exel plc Annual Report 2003 25 Corporate governance continued 4.
Internal controls and risk management In addition to this process, businesses are subject to: 4.1 Basis for disclosure a quarterly, comprehensive business review by the executive team Exel has ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing independent internal and external audits which focus on areas the significant risks faced by the Company.
Processes were in place of greatest risk, reporting to the executive team and the throughout 2003 for regular review by the Board of the effectiveness Audit Committee of the system of internal control and risk management and as such an extensive budget and target-setting process governed by strict the Company has complied with the guidance produced by the timetables and detailed specifications Turnbull Committee Internal Control: Guidance for Directors a monthly reporting and forecasting process reviewing performance on the Combined Code.
against agreed objectives appropriate delegated authority levels across the Group which 4.2 System of internal controls prescribe the limits to which the Group can be committed Internal control is defined in the new Code as all material controls, established financial policies and procedures, covering capital including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk expenditure and project appraisal as well as post project review management systems.
other risk management policies and procedures which are designed to meet the needs of the particular business to which The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system they relate.
These include health and safety, environmental of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role and other CSR issues, legal compliance, quality assurance, of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
risk transfer, insurance and security.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing These procedures are then monitored and assessed in a variety these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable of ways, including internal and external independent review.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness The Board regularly reviews the Groups strategic direction.
At the of the system of internal control include the following: business level, strategic objectives, annual plans and performance the Board reviews the effectiveness of the risk management targets are set by the executive team and reviewed by the Board process and significant risk issues are discussed in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
There is a defined the Board reviews and considers the minutes of the Risk process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Management Committee risks faced by the Group which has been in place for the year under the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board review and remains in place.
This process, which has been approved the outcome of, and the Board receives the minutes of, all Audit and reviewed by the Board, consists of: Committee meetings a formal identification by management at each level of the Group the Board considers financing, investment and treasury decisions of the key risks to achieving their business objectives, together concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees with the risk management activities used to minimise these risks and indemnities and the routine assurance processes which indicate the effectiveness the Board reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across of their internal controls.
The formal process includes evaluation the Group of the inherent impact and likelihood of each risk and its residual the Board reviews the key Group and business unit risks during impact and likelihood after management action the year, taking into account how the risks have changed over a process of regular certification by management that they are the period under review.
responsible for the risks to their business objectives, that they have reviewed their risks and controls and that they have complied The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial with the requirements of Group policies statements and reviews all formal announcements relating to a process of regular reporting and review, at regional executive financial performance, including the corporate governance report.
meetings and by the Board, of progress in the improvement of risk management activities and action taken subsequent The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, annually reviews the to incidents which have occurred scope of work, authority and resourcing of internal audit.
The Head assurance, which is provided by internal audit, as to the existence of Global Audit and Assurance has access to the Chairman of the and effectiveness of the risk management activities described Audit Committee and has a meeting with the Chairman prior to by management.
each Audit Committee meeting without the presence of executive management.
The Head of Global Audit and Assurance also meets the other members of the Audit Committee as required.
Corporate governance Exel plc Annual Report 2003 26 The annual plan is presented to the Audit Committee meeting in 6.
Shareholder relations November and updates are presented at other meetings throughout 6.1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders the year.
The Audit Committee receives copies of all audit reports Institutional shareholders and analysts are invited to briefings by the and a progress report at each meeting which identifies key issues Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys and provides a summary of the reports issued since the last meeting.
interim and full year results.
The Company also hosts conference calls The Audit Committee also reviews and monitors managements on the same day.
The Company holds investor meetings throughout response to the issues raised in the audit reports.
The annual investor day took place in December 2003.
Processes are in place by which staff may, in confidence, raise Whenever possible the Chairman and Senior Independent concerns about potential improprieties within the business.
Director attend the results presentations and annual investor day, making themselves available to meet shareholders and analysts.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Further investor engagement is planned for 2004 to discuss The Board recognises its collective responsibility to ensure that the governance matters.
Group has appropriate policies on social, environmental and ethical matters, adequate procedures to implement them and verification The Board receives a report on investor relations at each meeting policies and procedures to monitor them.
The Board takes account and all analysts notes are circulated to the Board.
A wide-ranging of CSR matters and significant CSR risks through a Board level survey of institutional shareholders is planned in 2004. review at least annually and through the regular reports of the Risk Management Committee.
John Coghlan, Deputy Chief Executive 6.2 Constructive use of the AGM and Group Finance Director, is responsible to the Board for all CSR Particular importance is placed on communication with private matters and is Chairman of the Risk Management Committee.
The AGM presents an opportunity to meet and question the Directors.
Shareholders are invited to submit questions The Board delegates responsibility for ensuring it has adequate in advance of the meeting.
At the AGM, to be held on 22 April 2004, information on CSR matters to John Coghlan and Doug Evans, there will be a business presentation by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
This information includes, where relevant, a display of various aspects of the Groups activities.
The Chairmen the collection and evaluation of data, for instance on environmental, of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will health and safety and employment issues, to enable improvement be available to answer questions.
Electronic proxy voting as well targets to be set and performance against these targets to be as proxy voting by CREST are available.
The number of proxy votes measured.
The Groups risk management process also brings to for, against and abstentions will be announced after each resolution, the Boards attention areas of less significant risk.
In addition, Exels will be available in printed form at the end of the meeting and will be crisis management process is able to keep Board members informed published on the Companys website.
A detailed explanation of each should the need arise.
Furthermore, at the operational level, CSR item of special business to be considered at the AGM is included is regarded as an integral part of management responsibility and in the Notice of Meeting, which is sent to shareholders at least is monitored accordingly.
20 working days before the meeting.
CSR risks are identified, managed and brought to the attention Webcasts of briefings for analysts and institutional shareholders of the Board through the Groups overall risk management process, are posted on the Companys website so as to be available to discussed above.
As in 2002, no specific CSR-related risks have all shareholders.
A subscription e-mail service is available through been identified that could have a material impact on the business.
the Companys website for all interested parties enabling access to all Company notifications and news releases.
Verification of Exels CSR activities and of the data required for that verification is undertaken by the Groups internal audit team.
Where An investor relations report, including details of activities during specific or technical expertise is required, external consultants are used.
the year, is set out on pages 85 to 87 and information of particular interest to private shareholders can be found from page 88.
In addition, the Companys website makes available a wide range of information to shareholders.
@ To subscribe for Company notifications and news releases go to www.
asp @ To view the Board Committees terms of reference go to http: investor.
com exelplc financialcalendar boardcommittees 03 Governance Corporate governance Exel plc Annual Report 2003 27
