John Dawson Investor relations Director of Corporate Affairs The investor relations section of the Annual Report provides an outline We made steady progress developing the awareness of the communication strategy and standards Exel maintains with the and understanding of Exel and its resilient business investment community and reviews the activities undertaken in 2003. model within the investment community.
The solid In addition, this section provides further information on share price financial performance together with many commercial performance, changes in the Groups ownership structure and other and strategic developments also helped communicate information relevant to investors.
New features in this report include an overview of Exels investor day held in December 2003.
Exels reputation as the world leader in supply chain management was further Investor relations strategy strengthened by strong customer feedback on the One of the core goals of Exels investor relations strategy is to quality and reliability of Exels logistics solutions.
establish the Group as a leader in delivering best practice investor communications.
The key principles of the strategy, which embraces the wider financial community, include: developing a clearer understanding of Exels strategy, performance and growth potential amongst the widest possible investor community, in the UK and abroad ensuring Exel maintains, at all times, the highest levels of open communication with the investor community in the UK and abroad complying with all regulations related to the conduct of publicly listed companies.
This includes ensuring all price sensitive or material information issued by the Group externally, is available to all investors, and in so far as possible, make all issued information, of any kind, available through Exels website.
Exels senior management team devotes a significant proportion of its time to external communications either through results presentations, open access conference calls, investor meetings or other public forums.
In order to ensure the information provided to the investment community is of a high standard and communicated effectively, the Group has four nominated spokespersons who manage the dissemination of price sensitive information: Nigel Rich Chairman, John Allan Chief Executive, John Coghlan Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and John Dawson Director of Corporate Affairs.
In order to adhere to best practice standards, Exel requests that all queries concerning Group performance, or other issues, are made direct to these individuals through the Corporate Affairs office 44 0 1344 744409.
@ For further investor information go to http: investor.
com exelplc 05 Investor relations Investor relations strategy Exel plc Annual Report 2003 85
