5-6% Growth in outsourcing is expected to continue at around 5-6% per annum globalisation and new manufacturing strategies.
As a result, Exel is strengthening its involvement in global retail and manufacturing supply chains where its global integrated capability provides a real competitive advantage for both parties.
Looking at regional markets, Exel has identified further strong growth in demand supply chain expertise can for sophisticated supply chain unlock the most value for services in Asia, the UK and to customers may grow at a some extent Europe.
Underlying slower rate, but that the market growth in the Americas underlying trend remains has also remained strong, led positive.
Exels expectation is by high levels of outsourcing.
that outsourcing in the contract logistics market should grow Most of Exels industry sectors at around 5-6% per annum.
have continued to grow well.
Turning to freight management, Particularly strong markets industry commentators, have included non-food retail, including the airlines and consumer, healthcare, aircraft manufacturers, are automotive and chemical.
Led predicting further growth in by an expectation of economic the airfreight market of around 6-7% recovery, technology and industrial 6-7% per annum and a similar growth is expected in markets are expected to grow level of growth is expected in airfreight and containerised well in the next few years.
Real seafreight markets life case studies and emerging Taken together, growth customer growth plans indicate expectations for the supply chain world trade will continue to market remain healthy across all escalate, supporting product of Exels industries and regions.
Exel has responded to emerging customer demands for internationally integrated supply chains by developing systems and capabilities to manage the flows of freight from sources of supply, right through to point of delivery to the consumer.
Mick Fountain Chief Executive, Global Freight Management 01 Strategy Market and growth opportunities Exel plc Annual Report 2003 05
