Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require the Board to report on the Groups compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Code.
The Directors believe that the Group has complied with the Code throughout the year with the exception that the Groups NonExecutive Employee Director the Employee Director is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Code requires that the Remuneration Committee should comprise only independent Non-Executive Directors Code Provision B.
As an employee of the Group, the Employee Director cannot be regarded as independent under the Code.
However, the Board believes that the Employee Director should sit on the Board and its various committees in order to give the Groups employees who, through the Groups employee share schemes, represent a large proportion in number of the Companys shareholders a voice.
The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors Forum, which is comprised of the Employee Directors from the Groups subsidiaries, and generally serves a three-year term.
Following the end of George Laws three-year term, he was succeeded by Martyn Williams, who became the Employee Director with effect from 1 January 2003.
The Board has considered the recommendations of the Higgs report on the role and effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors and the accompanying report by Sir Robert Smith on audit committee reform.
The Company currently complies with many of the recommendations in these reports.
The Board will implement any changes it considers necessary or desirable following the resulting amendments to the revised Code, when it is published.
This statement sets out how the principles in Section 1 of the Code have been applied.
The Board Board balance The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Except as described above in respect of the Employee Director, the Non-Executives are considered to be independent of management and have no business or other relationships which could materially inuence the exercise of their independent judgement.
The names of the Directors and their details are set out on page 15.
Re-election As required by the Companys articles of association, Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year is required to seek reappointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to reappointment by shareholders.
The Companys articles of association do not contain any age limits for directors.
Board procedure Martin Gilbert, the Chairman, is responsible for the effective conduct of Board and shareholder meetings, and for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed to enable them to take a full part in Board discussions.
Moir Lockhead, the Chief Executive, is responsible for developing and implementing business strategy and processes and for the day-to-day management of the Group.
David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board believes that together, the Directors possess the breadth of business, financial and international experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation of the size and complexity of the Group.
The Board critically examines the Groups strategy, budget and business plan annually and meets at least eight times a year to review the financial performance of the Group, current trading and key business issues and initiatives.
It also meets regularly to discuss strategy and on an ad hoc basis as required.
It has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including items such as the approval of the annual and interim financial statements, nancing arrangements, material capital commitments, business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with regulatory authorities and operating and accounting policies.
The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual Board members have direct access to senior executives should they wish to receive additional information on any items for discussion.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and can seek independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
The Board has delegated certain matters to committees of the Board.
Details of the principal such committees are set out below: Executive Safety Committee The Executive Safety Committee ESC is chaired by Moir Lockhead and comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers and safety ofcers.
The ESC meets monthly to review the Groups safety performance and practices, develop safety policies and procedures and follow up on outstanding issues.
The meetings are attended by representatives from DuPont Safety Resources.
Senior representatives of relevant industry bodies, such as Her Majestys Railway Inspectorate, also attend meetings of the ESC on a regular basis.
Executive Management Board The Executive Management Board EMB, under the chairmanship of Moir Lockhead, acts as a general operating management committee and comprises all the Executive Directors and certain senior business managers.
The EMB meets monthly with senior corporate staff and business unit managing directors to review outstanding issues and to consider the Groups financial and operational performance.
16 16 F FIRST IRST Executive Committee The Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors, under the chairmanship of Moir Lockhead, has been established to meet on an ad hoc basis to consider and approve matters which arise in the ordinary course of the Groups operations.
The Board has delegated specic powers to this committee within certain prescribed limits to deal with matters relating to the ordinary day-to-day running of the Groups operations and which need to be considered before the next scheduled EMB or Board meeting.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which is chaired by David Dunn, includes Martin Gilbert, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright and Martyn Williams and normally meets at least twice a year.
George Law was a member until his retirement on 31 December 2002.
The Audit Committee, which has written terms of reference, monitors and reviews accounting policies and financial reporting, the system of financial and operational controls for the Group, and reviews the half-year and full-year financial statements before they are presented to the Group.
It also considers the Groups compliance with the Code and oversees the objectivity and effectiveness of internal audit.
It is also responsible for appointing the Groups external auditors and for monitoring their independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee can request the external auditors, Executive Directors and any other ofcers of the Group to attend its meetings.
In addition, the Groups internal and external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee to raise any matters that may concern them.
The Audit Committee receives papers summarising the audits undertaken to date, an executive summary of each internal audit report and, from time-to-time, various reports from the external auditors and management.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert and includes David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright, Martyn Williams and Moir Lockhead.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference and meets as required to discuss appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors, with recommendations being put to the full Board for its consideration.
External search consultants are used to assist the process.
Remuneration Committee The composition and terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Jim Forbes, are set out on pages 19 to 25 together with a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
Full details of Directors remuneration appear on page 23.
Relations with shareholders The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available to all shareholders and an Interim Report is published and sent to all shareholders at the half-year.
These reports are intended to provide shareholders and other interested parties with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups operational performance and prospects and its financial results and position.
All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, appointments etc.
via news releases and the Groups web site.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are made following the release of the announcement of the preliminary and interim results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM, at which a report is made on the highlights of the key business developments during the financial year under review.
Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Accountability and Audit Financial reporting The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published information including, but not limited to, the year-end and interim financial statements, Stock Exchange announcements and other public information.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control Introduction The Board has established procedures to meet the requirements of the Code as extended by the Turnbull Report.
These procedures, which are subject to a regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Group.
Responsibility The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing detailed control and risk management procedures within each subsidiary unit lies with the Executive Directors and the subsidiary unit managing directors.
A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business F FIRST IRST 17 17 Corporate governance objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Control environment The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which managers and employees are required to comply.
There is a dened divisional organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegated authority which allows the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The day-today business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors under the direction of the Chief Executive.
As noted above, the Board retains certain key decisions to itself, enabling it to maintain control over the key business decision-making processes and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions has detailed procedures and is monitored by an Executive Director.
Monitoring The Group adopts a professional approach to financial reporting and information in compliance with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both Group management and the Executive Directors.
Monthly forecasts are completed during the year and compared against budget.
When setting budgets and forecasts, management identies, evaluates and reports on the potential significant business risks and actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance, with a commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which include consideration of long-term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
A process of annual self-assessment and hierarchical reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability from the subsidiary units to senior management to the Executive Directors.
This process includes an internal control questionnaire and risk assessment and is signed off by the subsidiary directors.
This process and the supporting documentation are reviewed by both the internal and external auditors.
Detailed action plans are developed from these questionnaires to resolve any control weaknesses or significant risks identied.
Risk assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area and major projects identify their risks, the probability of the risks occurring, the impact on the business should the risks occur and the actions taken to manage the risks.
The risks are assessed on a continuous basis and could be associated with a variety of internal and external sources including political instability, regulatory requirements, disruption to information systems, control breakdowns and social, ethical and environmental issues.
Regular performance reviews have been introduced in each of the Divisions to further embed the concept of risk management.
The divisional directors review the detailed risk management reports prepared by their subsidiary units which include updates of agreed action plans arising from previous quarterly performance reviews.
Assurance The work of the internal audit department is focused on areas of priority as identied by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to resolve identied control weaknesses are implemented.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the external audit and the audits conducted by the internal audit department.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit fee, are set out in Note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee reviews with management, a detailed analysis of the Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the external auditors on the audit process.
The external auditors also meet with the full Board and, if necessary, separately, with the Chairman, the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements and interim results go through a detailed verication and due diligence process involving external advisers.
Effectiveness The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements through the monitoring process described above.
In addition, the Directors confirm that they have conducted a specic annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management in operation during the period up to the date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
