30 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate governance Corporate governance Board Committees The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining The Board has appointed the following principal Committees: the highest possible standards of corporate governance.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Good corporate governance requires effective control through a Mr R P Edey and its membership comprises all the non-executive balanced Board, with clearly delineated responsibility and adequate directors.
It meets at least twice a year and is responsible for control mechanisms providing appropriate checks and balances.
reviewing the results of the audit work undertaken by the Groups Such disciplines must be clearly understood and subject to an external auditors and the internal audit function, review of the effective regime of accountability.
Groups financial statements prior to submission to the Board, This statement on corporate governance, together with the and the appointment of the auditors and approval of their fees.
Remuneration report, describes the manner in which the principles Remuneration Committee This Committee meets at least and practices, as detailed in the Combined Code, are applied twice a year, and consists of all the non-executive directors within the Group.
with Mr C R N Clark as Chairman.
Its key role is to make The Board recommendations to the Board on the companys framework The directors supervise the management of the business and the of executive remuneration and its cost, and to determine affairs of the Group and see their prime responsibility as being specific remuneration packages for each of the executive to determine the broad strategy of the Group and to ensure its directors, including pension rights and compensation payments.
implementation with a view to enhancing the prosperity of the The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the Group and its shareholders over time.
executive directors are both highly motivated and fairly rewarded for their contributions to the Groups overall performance.
The Board currently comprises four executive and five Further details of the Committees work and of the directors non-executive directors.
All the non-executive directors are emoluments and interests are set out in the report of the considered to be independent as they have no business or Remuneration Committee on pages 34 to 43. other relationship that could materially influence the exercise of independent judgement.
Mr R P Edey has been the senior Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists independent director throughout the year.
of the Chairman of the Board and all the remaining non-executive directors, and is responsible for nominating, for the Boards The Board meets at least six times each year with additional consideration, suitable individuals for appointment to the Board.
All directors receive regular information on the Groups operational and financial performance and the Board Communications with shareholders has reserved certain items for its review and approval, including In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is disseminated in the annual and interim results, the annual profit plan, significant order to maintain an orderly market in the ordinary shares of the acquisitions and divestments, management resources and risk company, the company maintains a regular dialogue with major management.
Information of an appropriate quality is made institutional shareholders.
available to the Board in a timely manner to assist it in the The Board members attend the annual general meeting and, performance of its duties.
There is an agreed procedure for in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and directors to take independent legal advice.
Other matters are Nominations Committees are available to answer questions.
delegated to Board Committees including those detailed below.
The companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional The company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive, each having company information and is regularly updated.
Essentially, the Chairman is responsible for the effective working of the Board and the Internal controls Chief Executive is responsible for all operational matters.
Under the terms of the Combined Code, the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its The directors may at any time appoint an additional director.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than Any directors so appointed shall hold office until the next annual eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment at that objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute meeting.
Following such appointment, the Articles of Association assurance against material misstatement or loss.
require each director to retire by rotation and seek re-election at least every three years.
Implementation of an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks was in place throughout the financial year.
These procedures have been in place up to the date of approval of the Annual report and financial statements.
The processes are regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
31 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate governance Principal elements of the Groups system of internal controls are: Information systems The Group operates a rigorous and comprehensive annual planning system which is fundamental to the Internal control environment strategic direction and control of Group performance.
All annual The Board sets the overall policy for the Group which includes plans are reviewed by the senior executives with local management a well defined organisational structure with clear operating to ensure that every plan prepared is not only achievable but also procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
presents a challenge to its management.
The culmination of the Control procedures exist to identify and control business risks, operating units plans is the annual Group Plan which is approved safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure that financial by the Board in March each year.
Policies and procedures have transactions are properly recorded.
been laid down for the regular review and management of risks Assessment of business risk identified in the plans.
There is a comprehensive financial reporting The Group has reporting systems that identify the major financial system in place which compares results with plans and the and other business risks within the Group.
Policies and procedures previous year to identify, analyse and explain any significant have been laid down for the regular review and management of deviations from approved plans.
these risks, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
In addition, more routine information in respect of orders, turnover Monitoring process and cash flow is collected and reported to senior executives weekly During the year, management has continued to conduct ongoing to aid the identification of possible areas of business risk.
regular reviews of the business risks within all operating units and Main control procedures The Group has defined procedures and at a Group level, focusing on the prioritisation of individual risks financial controls, including information system controls, to ensure and the identification of responses for their mitigation.
the reporting of complete and accurate accounting information and The output of the individual assessments is reviewed at both the consideration of business and financial risks.
These cover systems operating group and Board level, and updates to the risk for obtaining authority for major transactions and for ensuring assessments and progress with respect to the individual action compliance with laws and regulations that have significant financial plans are monitored on a regular basis by senior management implications.
Procedures are also in place to ensure that assets are and the Board.
subject to proper physical controls and that the organisation remains structured to ensure appropriate segregation of duties.
The agenda for Board meetings includes a regular item for consideration of business risks and controls and the Board receives Monitoring The monitoring of financial control procedures is regular reports from Group management.
The Board uses these achieved through management review by both the directly reports as a basis to assess risks material to the achievement of responsible senior executive and head office personnel.
In addition, the Groups strategic objectives.
the Group employs an external firm of professional accountants, independent of its auditors, to carry out internal audit work and The Board confirms that the application of the Groups system of monitor certain internal controls.
Following review, reports are internal control is and has been ongoing to identify, evaluate and produced and addressed to the executive directors which assess manage the significant risks faced by the Group and that it has the impact of control issues and, where appropriate, detail local been in place for the year under review up to the date of approval management actions required.
Significant matters arising are of the Annual report and financial statements, and that it accords summarised and presented to the Audit Committee at least twice with Internal control: Guidance for directors on the combined each year.
This independent firm of accountants who conduct code, published in September 1999. internal audit work are managed by head office personnel but The key features of the internal financial control systems are report to the Audit Committee.
All key business units are described under the following headings.
reviewed over a rolling three-year cycle and acquisitions are reviewed within 12 months of acquisition to verify compliance Financial control environment There is a clearly defined with the companys procedures.
organisational structure within which individual responsibilities are identified in relation to internal financial controls.
The structure is Review of effectiveness of internal control The directors confirm complemented by policies laid down by Group manuals and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control management is expected to confirm that it operates the business system of the Group in respect of the year ended 31 March 2003. in compliance with these policies.
The policies include strict Compliance with Code of Best Practice rules for the authorisation and approval of both revenue and As described in the Remuneration report on page 37 the service capital expenditure.
contracts of two executive directors contain notice periods of two years in the event of a change of control, and Mr Heidens period is initially two years from 2 January 2003 reducing to one year after the first year.
Although it is now the Boards policy that all new service agreements for executive directors should, after an initial period of service, have notice periods of one year or less, the Board believes that it would not be in the companys best interests to amend such notice periods in service agreements which were entered into prior to the adoption of the current policy.
Subject to the above exception, the directors confirm that in applying the Principles of Good Governance, the Group has complied throughout the accounting period with the Code of Best Practice as set out in Part 2, Section 1 of the Combined Code.
