ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors are committed to high of parity under review.
The Board is satisfied No Non-Executive Director has served on the standards of corporate governance.
The way that it has an appropriate balance of Board for more than nine years from the date in which the Company applies the principles Executive and Non-Executive Directors of his first election.
The Board has adopted set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code such that no individual, or small group of the principle that Non-Executive Directors on Corporate Governance the Old Code individuals, can dominate the Boards should normally serve two three year terms is described within this Report of the Directors decision making.
and that any term beyond six years for a and in the Report of the Remuneration Non-Executive Director should be the subject Mr. C. D. Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman Committee.
The Company has been in full of particularly rigorous review and that, in any and Mr. C. G. Hammond is the Group Chief compliance with the Old Code throughout event, no Non-Executive Director shall serve Executive.
Mr. G. H. Webster is the Senior the year under review with the exception of longer than nine years.
Provision B1.7 as other than for Mr. P. D. The Chairman held one meeting during the The Board met five times last year and Glading the period of Executive Director year with the Non-Executive Directors without held a two day Annual Strategy Conference.
contracts exceeded one year in the event of the Executive Directors present.
It also meets as necessary for any matters a take-over or merger situation.
The Company arising at other times.
The Board has a The Board has delegated certain matters complied with this Provision with effect from formal Schedule of Matters specifically to three sub-committees of the Board 1st January 2004.
In addition the Board is reserved to it for decisions such as are comprising the Audit Committee, the addressing those areas where the Company required under the Companies Act, Stock Remuneration Committee and the does not currently fully meet the requirements Exchange including Corporate Governance Nomination Committee.
The Chairman of of the new Combined Code on Corporate and for approval of strategy, budgets, and the Board is also the Chairman of each of Governance issued by the Financial Reporting major management financial decisions as the sub-committees but this will be reviewed Council in July 2003 the New Code, which determined from time to time by the Board.
during the course of this year.
will formally apply to the Company for the year At each Board meeting, the Board considers commencing 1st January 2004.
The Company Secretary is responsible for reports from each of the Executive Directors ensuring that Board procedures and covering his area of responsibility.
The Combined Code Application applicable rules and regulations are of Principles The attendance at Board Meetings during observed.
All Directors have access to 2003 was as shown below:- the advice and services of the Company A.
Directors Name Board Meetings Attended Secretary.
There is an agreed procedure The Board C. D. Collins 5 for Directors to take independent The Board of Directors comprises five C. G. Hammond 5 professional advice, if necessary, at the Executive Directors and five Non-Executive W. W. Murray 5 A. C. Morrison 5 Companys expense.
The Company considers all its T. P. Smith 5 Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
P. D. Glading 5 Directors are fully aware of their duties and The Non-Executive Directors bring an G. H. Webster 5 W. Harkness 5 responsibilities as Directors and that they independent and balanced view to the G. Brown 1 receive appropriate training.
Mindful of the recommendation that D. D. S. Robertson 1 at least half of the Board excluding the As Mr. Brown and Mr. Robertson were appointed in Chairman should comprise Non-Executive September 2003, they were only in a position to attend Directors, the Board will keep the principles one Board Meeting during the year.
26 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Tilbury The City Bond.
of the Board in February 2004 was passed to All Executive Directors are now on one-year D. Financial Reporting and compliance the effect that where Directors have concerns rolling contracts.
with the Turnbull Committee Guidance which cannot be resolved concerning the on Internal Control the Guidance running of the Company or a proposed C. Relations with Shareholders Internal Control: The Board has reviewed action, their concerns should be recorded The Company encourages regular dialogue the effectiveness of the Groups system of in the Board Minutes.
If a Non-Executive with institutional shareholders based on a internal control in accordance with the Director resigns, he should provide a written mutual understanding of objectives.
Guidance throughout the year and up to the statement to the Chairman, for circulation to date of this report.
It should be recognised The Board receives reports prepared by the the Board, if he has any such concerns.
that such a system can provide only Companys broker which reflect the views of reasonable, and not absolute, assurance The Board has initiated a process by which the major shareholders on an unattributable against material misstatement or loss.
an annual evaluation of its own performance basis following the half-yearly and annual The key features of the system which have and that of its sub-committees and individual presentations to major shareholders.
The been established are as follows:- Directors and Chairman will be undertaken Board also receives copies of Analysts during the course of 2004. reports on a regular basis.
In addition, the Control Environment Board invites an Independent Transport The Groups control environment is the As part of the annual budget presentation Analyst to its Annual Strategy Conference responsibility of the Groups Directors to the Board, the Board reviews the targets with a remit to give the Board that Analysts and managers at all levels.
The Groups which were given to individual Executive views about the Company and how it organisational structure has clear lines Directors and Senior Managers within the compares with its peer group.
Operating and financial Group and subsequently discusses and responsibility for subsidiary companies approves the targets to be given to these With effect from 2004, the Chairman will meet is delegated to the local Boards.
individuals for the following year.
a selected number of the Companys major shareholders.
This will in no way alter the Identification of Business Risks and An Annual General Meeting is held every Companys policy of being available to meet compliance with the Guidance calendar year at which all Directors with shareholders at any time should a Throughout last year, the Group complied with submit themselves for re-election at least shareholder so wish to discuss governance and the Guidance.
The Group Risk and Insurance every three years.
In addition, the Senior Independent Manager oversees the procedures involved B.
Directors Remuneration Director will be available if required.
in the identification of business risks and Reference is made to the Report of the compliance with the Guidance.
The Board The Board also uses the Annual General Remuneration Committee on pages 31 to regularly reviews the process of identifying, Meeting to communicate with private 34 which sets out the composition of the evaluating and managing the Groups key investors and encourages their participation Remuneration Committee, the Companys risks which allows it to take a view on the both inside and outside the formal meeting.
remuneration policy for Directors and details effectiveness of these procedures.
All As in prior years, the Company, at the 2004 of such remuneration including bonus subsidiaries are required to assess key Annual General Meeting, will ensure that schemes and pensions for each Director, risks and related control and monitoring the level of proxies for and against each and the Committees compliance with all procedures on an ongoing basis.
The Board resolution is intimated to shareholders relevant sections of the Combined Code.
monitors this process on a regular basis.
after each resolution has been dealt with.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 27 Major Corporate Information Systems Audit Committee: Full details of the work safeguarding the assets of the Company and The Group operates a comprehensive of the Audit Committee are contained in the the Group and hence for taking reasonable budgeting and financial reporting system Report of the Audit Committee on page 29. steps for the prevention and detection of which, as a matter of routine, compares fraud and other irregularities.
The Board is currently developing a actual results to budget.
Management questionnaire to enable it to review the The maintenance and integrity of the Forth accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.
effectiveness of the Audit Committee Ports PLC website is the responsibility of the Variances from budget are thoroughly on an annual basis.
Executive Directors: the work carried out by investigated and revisions to forecasts the Auditors does not involve consideration are made twice during the year.
Cash flow Directors Responsibilities for the of these matters and, accordingly, the projections are prepared monthly and cover Accounts: Company law requires the Auditors accept no responsibility for any a rolling twelve month period to ensure that Directors to prepare accounts for each changes that may have occurred to the the Group has adequate funds.
financial year which give a true and fair view accounts since they were initially presented of the state of affairs of the Company and Main Control Procedures on the website.
Legislation in the United the Group and of the profit or loss for that Divisional management establishes control Kingdom governing the preparation and period.
In preparing those accounts, the procedures in response to each of the key dissemination of accounts may differ from Directors are required to: risks identified.
Standard financial control legislation in other jurisdictions.
procedures operate throughout the Group select suitable accounting policies Going Concern: The Directors, having made to ensure the integrity of the Groups and then apply them consistently enquiries, have a reasonable expectation accounts.
The Board has established make judgements and estimates that that the Company and the Group have procedures for authorisation of capital are reasonable and prudent adequate resources to continue in expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
state whether applicable accounting operational existence for the foreseeable The Group has an internal audit function standards have been followed, subject future, and that therefore it is appropriate which carries out systematic reviews of the to any material departures disclosed and to continue to adopt the going concern financial control procedures.
explained in the accounts basis in preparing the accounts.
prepare the accounts on the going Monitoring System used by the Board concern basis unless it is inappropriate The Board participates in an annual strategy By Order of the Board to presume that the Company will continue conference which includes a three year J.
A. Tothill in business forward financial review which is then Company Secretary updated on an annual basis.
The Board The Directors are responsible for keeping 22nd March 2004 reviews and approves budgets and monitors proper accounting records which disclose the Groups performance against those with reasonable accuracy at any time the budgets monthly.
The Board receives reports financial position of the Company and the on a regular basis from the Audit Committee.
Group to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for
