ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 29 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met on three occasions b. to assess the qualification, expertise during the year were: during the year to receive reports on various and resources, effectiveness and matters including the full year audit March, independence of the external C. D. Collins Non-Executive Director the Interim Statement August, and on Auditors annually: Chairman preparation work for the forthcoming 2003 c. to discuss with the external Auditors the G. H. Webster Non-Executive Director full year audit November.
nature and scope of the audit and ensure W. Harkness Non-Executive Director co-ordination where more than one audit The attendance at Audit Committee meetings G. Brown Non-Executive Director with effect firm is involved: during 2003 was as follows:- from November 2003 d. to review the half-year and annual Name Audit Committee Meetings Attended D. D. S. Robertson Non-Executive Director financial statements focusing particularly C. D. Collins 3 with effect from November 2003 on any changes in accounting policies G. H. Webster 3 and practices, major judgmental areas, W. Harkness 3 The Internal Auditor, Group Chief Executive, G. Brown 1 significant adjustments resulting from the Group Finance Director and the external D. D. S. Robertson 1 audit, the going concern assumption, Auditors attend the meetings.
compliance with Accounting Standards As Mr. Brown and Mr. Robertson were appointed in September 2003, they were only in a position to attend The Company Secretary, J.
A. Tothill, acts and compliance with Stock Exchange one Audit Committee Meeting during the year.
as Secretary to the Committee.
and legal requirements: e. to review the external Auditors report Members of the Audit Committee serve The Terms of Reference of the Audit on internal controls and managements for an initial period of up to three years with Committee authorise it to seek any response: the option to extend by no more than two information it requires from any employee f. to review the Companys statement on additional three year periods as long as the and all employees are required to co-operate internal control systems: members are considered to be independent.
with any requests made by the Committee.
g. to review the internal audit programme, The Committee is authorised by the It is the Companys intention to appoint a to review the co-ordination between the Board to obtain outside legal or other new Non-Executive Director, in due course, internal and external Auditors and to independent professional advice and to who will have the necessary recent and ensure that the internal audit function secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant financial experience as strictly is adequately resourced to a level relevant experience and expertise if it is defined in the Smith Report.
The Company commensurate with the Companys considered necessary.
does not comply with the new Code in that requirements: the Chairman of the Company is also the The Terms of Reference of the Committee h. to ensure that all matters within the remit Chairman of the Audit Committee.
It is the may be summarised as follows:- of the Committee are dealt with in an Companys intention to review this position open, fair and transparent manner.
a. to consider the appointment of the when a new Board appointment is made.
external Auditors, the audit fee and any questions of resignation or dismissal and to make recommendations to the Board: 30 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Audit Committee has satisfied itself as to The Audit Committees policy on the the external Auditors independence: it has provision of non-audit services by the considered the external Auditors quality external Auditors is currently under review control procedures and has reviewed and and will be finalised during the course of approved the level of audit fees.
The current guideline is that the Audit Committee encourages competition for nonThe Audit Committee also receives a report audit work.
During 2003, the Company used at each meeting from the Internal Auditor four different firms of professional advisers to on the work which he has carried out.
advise on accounting, corporation tax, VAT A separate Internal Audit Plan is presented and other financial matters.
The amount of in November of each year for the following the Statutory Audit Fee in 2003 was 216,000 years work programme which is considered excluding audit fees for joint ventures of by the Audit Committee.
42,000 compared with 52,000 on nonThe Audit Committee intends to adopt a audit services, the largest component of whistle blowing policy throughout the which was 39,000 for tax advice.
This policy will set out the position The Group Chief Executive and the Group whereby any concerns, including those of Finance Director are in attendance at the a financial nature, may be raised directly Audit Committee Meetings, however, they with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
are not present for the full meeting as the Audit Committee has separate meetings with only the external Auditors present.
The same meeting format is available for the Internal Auditor.
