28 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The members of the Nomination Committee b. to be responsible for identifying and During the year, the Nomination Committee during the year were:- nominating, for approval of the Board, prepared a detailed brief of a search to candidates to fill the Board vacancies be carried out by Hanson Green, an C. D. Collins Non-Executive Director as and when they arise: independent firm of Search Consultants, Chairman c. to satisfy itself with regard to succession for two new Non-Executive Directors to G. H. Webster Non-Executive Director planning: replace Mr. H. M. Thompson who had retired W. Harkness Non-Executive Director d. to ensure that new Board members have and Mr. G. H. Webster who is due to retire at G. Brown Non-Executive Director sufficient time to undertake the role: the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
The with effect from November 2003 e. to ensure that an appropriate induction recruitment process was as follows:- D. D. S. Robertson Non-Executive Director plan has been put in place for every a.
An overall profile for potential candidates with effect from November 2003 new Director.
This was arrived at having The Committee shall also make regard to the balance of the Board and The Company Secretary, J.
A. Tothill, acts recommendations to the Board in respect the business experience of the existing as Secretary to the Committee.
of the following: Non-Executive Directors.
It was agreed by the Board that the Group a. the re-appointment of a Non-Executive b.
A shortlist of candidates was drawn Chief Executive should become a member Director: up based on the search results against of the Nomination Committee with effect from b. the re-election by shareholders of any the profile.
Director under the retirement by rotation c. The short-listed candidates were then provisions in the Companys Articles interviewed by the Chairman and Group Members of the Nomination Committee of Association: Chief Executive and the results of the serve for an initial period of up to three years c. the continuation in office as a Director interviews were discussed at a meeting with the option to extend by no more than of any Director at any time: of the Nomination Committee.
The two additional three year periods.
d. the appointment of any Director to Committee then interviewed the preferred The Committee meets not less than once Executive or other office other than to candidates who also met the other a year and at such other times as business the positions of Chairman and Group Board members.
During the year there was one Chief Executive, the recommendation the appropriate candidate was then meeting of the Committee in August 2003. for which shall be considered at a discussed and confirmed at the following meeting of all the Directors regarding Board meeting.
Name Nomination Committee Meetings Attended these two appointments.
C. D. Collins 1 G. H. Webster 1 Following their appointment all new Directors The Committee is authorised to seek any W. Harkness 1 and Senior Managers participate in the information it requires from any employee Companys induction programmes where of the Company in order to perform its The Terms of Reference of the Committee each individual will meet all the senior duties.
It is authorised to obtain, at the may be summarised as follows:- managers of the Group, be shown the Companys expense, outside legal or other a. to prepare a description of the role principal locations of the Group and be given professional advice on any matters within its and capabilities required for a particular presentations on the Companys strategy, Terms of Reference.
Board appointment: targets and different business units.
