Corporate governance report The boards report on the companys corporate governance performance for the year ending 30 September 2003 is based on the Combined Code as formulated by the Committee on Corporate Governance in 1998 the Code.
The Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Revised Code is only mandatory for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the principles in the Code, and to confirm that they comply with the Code provisions or, where they do not comply, to provide an explanation.
a Application of Code principles The board comprises the non-executive chairman whom the board considers to be independent, the chief executive, three other executive directors and three other non-executive directors of whom the board considers Lord Condon and Mr Kitchen to be independent.
The senior independent director is Mr Kitchen.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows: Audit Committee Jonathan Kitchen Chairman Lord Condon Remuneration Committee Lord Condon Chairman Jonathan Kitchen Nomination Committee Lord Sharman Chairman Jonathan Kitchen Lord Condon Nick Buckles The chairmen of the three committees are available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The board met on 11 occasions during the year ending 30 September 2003.
All directors were present at all meetings.
At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the finance director, the HR director and the company secretary.
The board also receives an investor relations report which includes a summary of comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which are set out under five separate categories: 1 Board and management: 2 Operations: 3 Finance: 4 Business control: and 5 Secretarial.
By way of example, board approval is required for a acquisitions, disposals, investments and capital projects exceeding 1.25m: b any changes to the groups business strategy: and c the annual trading, capital expenditure and cash-ow budgets.
In the year under review, the Audit Committee met three times, the Remuneration Committee five times and the Nomination Committee three times.
Lord Condon and Mr Kitchen attended all meetings of these committees and Mr Buckles attended the meetings of the Nomination Committee.
Lord Sharman did not join the Nomination Committee until after the end of the year under review, assuming its chairmanship in November.
Sir Neil Macfarlane was a member of and attended the meetings of the Remuneration Committee prior to his retirement in May 2003.
His successor as chairman, Lord Sharman, who is not a member of the Remuneration Committee, is also non-executive chairman of Aegis Group plc and a non-executive director of BG Group plc and Reed Elsevier plc.
The performance of each of the executive directors is evaluated by the chief executive through an annual career and development review process, which includes an assessment of whether those directors have achieved specic business objectives set at the beginning of the year.
As yet, there is no formal process in place for evaluating the performance of the chief executive himself, of the non-executive directors or of the board committees.
It is intended that such a process be established as soon as possible.
The chief executive and the finance director hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings.
All the directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions, most of which in the past have been raised by private investors present at the meeting.
32 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance report continued The Nomination Committee appointed an external search consultancy to identify suitable candidates to succeed Sir Neil Macfarlane as chairman.
It was through this consultancy that Lord Sharman was short-listed, with a subsequent recommendation for his appointment being approved by the full board.
The Nomination Committee has retained an external search consultancy to nd two independent non-executive directors to join the board.
The board intends to use external search consultants for all future appointments of a chairman or a non-executive director.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by representatives of the groups auditors, the finance director, the director of compliance and the company secretary.
The committee considers the groups annual and interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditors on the financial statements and financial systems.
It also considers, amongst other matters, risk management procedures and internal controls and it requires the auditors, who perform certain non-audit work for the company, to provide a Statement of Independence to the committee at the year-end, setting out the auditors internal procedures for avoiding conicts.
The Audit Committee also meets with the groups auditors in the absence of management.
b Compliance with provisions of the Code The company complied throughout the year ended 30 September 2003 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code save that the Audit Committee consisted of only two non-executive directors.
It is intended that one of the two new non-executive directors currently being recruited by the company would serve on this committee.
Currently, the company does not comply with some of the provisions of the Revised Code.
However, the company intends to move progressively towards compliance with all such provisions.
c Risk management and internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the groups activities are regularly reviewed by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the director of compliance, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to present significant exposure.
Business risks throughout the group are continuously identied, evaluated and managed, a process which has been in place for the year ended 30 September 2003 and up to the date of this report.
The process, which is regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the Code, is carried out under the supervision of regional risk management committees, which report to the Group Risk Management Committee.
This latter committee, which meets quarterly and which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the finance director.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control.
Both the regional risk management committees and the Group Risk Management Committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to reduce risks.
Risk review exercises are undertaken twice a year or following material events, at company, regional and group level, and updated risk proles are prepared.
These exercises have been undertaken as part of the integration process for all major new acquisitions.
A common risk management framework has been used throughout the group to produce a summary of the risks which may impact on the achievement of business objectives.
Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
The risk proles are also used to ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
The internal control system includes clearly dened reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, management also receive assurance from other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, management reports and control self-assessment returns.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal control system for the year to 30 September 2003 by considering reports from both the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Management Committee and has taken account of events since 30 September 2003.
Nigel Grifths Secretary 4 February 2004 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 33
