THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 20 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate governance There is a commitment to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
The Board confirms that the Company and the Group have complied for the year ended 31 January 2003 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describes how the principles identified in the Combined Code already referred to above are applied by the Group.
Directors The Board consists of a Non-executive Chairman, P D Lewis, three other Non-executive Directors and three Executive Directors, of which J M Steinbrecher is Group Chief Executive, M Long is Chief Executive Designate and Chief Financial Officer and L J Morgan is Deputy Chief Executive Designate.
All four of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Biographies of Board members appear on page 12 of this report.
These indicate the high levels and range of business experience, which are essential to manage effectively a business of the size and complexity of the Group.
The full Board meets at least six times each year, and more frequently where business needs require.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including business acquisitions and disposals, approval of operating budgets, material property commitments, and appointments to subsidiary company boards.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
When new members are appointed to the Board, they are provided with advice from the Companys solicitors in respect of their role and duties as a public company Director.
Sir Richard Greenbury held the position of Senior Non-executive Director until his retirement on 25 January 2003.
On that date W R Slee was appointed Senior Non-executive Director.
Concerns relating to the Executive management of the Company or the performance of the other Non-executive Directors may be raised with the Senior Non-executive Director.
To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-executive Directors are considered by the Nominations Committee.
The recommendations of the Nominations Committee are ultimately made to the full Board, which considers them before any appointment is made.
The Remuneration Committee considers any remuneration package before it is offered to a potential appointee.
The members of the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees are set out on page 16.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors required to retire are those in office longest since their previous re-election and this usually means that each Director retires at least once every three years, although there is no absolute requirement to this effect.
THE GAME GROUP PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 - 2003 21 Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys remuneration policy are set out in the Directors remuneration report appearing on pages 22 to 28.
The members of the Remuneration Committee and the principal terms of reference of the committee appear on page 16.
Communication The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders.
The full report and accounts and the interim report are mailed to all shareholders and, on request, to other parties who have an interest in the Groups performance.
The Company responds to individual letters from shareholders and customers on a wide range of issues and maintains a corporate website, www.
uk, as a constant reference for interested parties.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the announcement of preliminary and interim results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 19 and 29 and the statement of the Directors on going concern appears on page 16.
Following the publication of guidance for Directors, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective are commensurate with a Group of this size, a key control procedure being the day to day supervision of the business by the Directors.
Other internal control procedures and reviews for effectiveness by the Board include the: preparation, maintenance and review of a Group Risk Register: review of financial, operational and compliance reports from management: and review of any significant issues arising from the external audits.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has considered the need for an internal audit function in light of the nature of its business and the complexity of transactions.
As a result the Audit Committee has concluded that there is no need for an internal audit function but it will continue to keep this area under review.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of the external audit under review.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 37.
The non-audit fees were principally paid in respect of tax advice, and are considered by the Committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
