50 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance Compliance statement The other members of the Management The Management Board is responsible The Board of Directors has complied Board are the Group Finance Director, for implementing Group strategy, monitoring throughout the period ending 3 January the Managing Directors of our six divisions, business performance, approving budgets 2004 with the provisions of the Combined as well as the Group Corporate Development and capital expenditure for recommendation Code as set out in the Listing Rules of Director, the Group Technical Director, to the Board and ensuring efficient the Financial Services Authority FSA, the Group Human Resources Director management of the Group.
as it applied prior to 1 November 2003. and the Business Improvement Director.
The Board has approved and implemented The Management Board meets monthly.
Below Board level, there are clear limits the additional actions that will be required on the authority that individuals have to to secure compliance in 2004 with the We have six divisions, each headed make financial commitments.
In addition, Combined Code, as it applies from by a Managing Director.
In each division we have policies setting out minimum 1 November 2003 the New Combined are three to seven business units: each standards in important risk areas such Code.
Joint ventures have not been dealt one is run by a General Manager.
Please as food safety, financial reporting, treasury, with as part of the Group for the purposes refer to our website, www.
co. uk gst employee matters and health and safety of applying this guidance although the ourcompany structure busstructure, and the environment.
Group endeavours to promote compliance for more details on our divisional structure.
Apart from this relatively small number Decision-making of rules, our General Managers have Set out below is a statement of how we apply The Board is responsible to shareholders freedom to run their businesses as they the principles of both the existing and the for providing entrepreneurial leadership see fit, in order to meet the demands New Combined Code.
within a framework of controls for of their customer, and the strategic and managing risk: setting the Groups strategy: financial targets that have been set by the The statement of the Directors responsibilities maintaining the policy and decisionManagement Board and their divisional in preparing the accounts is set out on making framework in which this strategy Managing Director.
We believe that this page 81 and the statement from the auditor is implemented: ensuring that necessary devolved structure is essential to enable on its reporting responsibilities is on page 92. financial and human resources are in us to take decisions quickly, to innovate The statement on going concern can place to meet strategic aims: monitoring at a speed demanded by the consumer be found on page 80 and further details performance against key financial and nonand to give our customers a product and on relations with shareholders is contained financial indicators: overseeing the system service that is tailored to their requirements.
in the Investor relations review on page 45. of risk management: and for setting values and standards in governance matters.
Board committees Structure The Board has established several Our Company is headed by the Board, There is a written list of matters and committees, each with written terms which comprises the Chairman, three other decisions which may only be approved of reference.
The terms of reference of independent non-executive Directors and by the Board.
These include formulation the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination three executive Directors.
of strategy, approval of annual budget committees are available on our website and business plan: approval of reported on the following link www.
co. uk gst For Board biographies and details of financial statements and dividend: responsibilities governance committees, length of service, please see page 48. monitoring of internal controls: approval or on request from the Company Secretary.
of major capital investments, company and A report from the Chairmen of these The Board delegates management of business acquisitions and disposals: policy committees is set out in this section.
the business to the Management Board, in important areas.
A full list is available headed by the Chief Executive Officer.
on request from the Company Secretary.
Board committees Committee name Committee Chairman Audit committee Bob Davies, Senior non-executive Director Safety committee Raymond Destin, Non-executive Director Nomination committee Sir John Banham, Non-executive Chairman Remuneration committee David Wallis, Non-executive Director Management Board Gareth Voyle, Chief Executive officer Our responsibilities Geest PLC 51 Board meetings reporting of that performance: satisfy At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive The Board meets nine times a year and, in themselves of the integrity of financial Officer updates the Board on current addition, has a two-day meeting to discuss information and that financial controls business matters and the Group Finance strategy.
Some Board meetings are held and systems of risk management are Director reports on the latest financial at our sites to enable the Board to meet the robust and defensible: determine the pay position.
The Board also reviews key General Manager and his her team and and benefits of the executive Directors: performance indicators KPIs in food safety, visit the production facility.
There was full and play a prime role in Board succession health and safety, shareholder and share attendance at all Board meetings during and the appointment and, where necessary, price details and competitor activity.
and or presentations are considered in matters requiring Board approval or decision.
The Board is chaired by a non-executive The Board considers that all of the Director, Sir John Banham.
Our Chief non-executive Directors are independent Presentations are given at least annually Executive Officer is Gareth Voyle and our within the meaning of the New Combined in relation to employees, food safety, health Senior independent non-executive Director Code, including the Chairman.
This is and safety and environment, customers, was Bob Davies and from May 2004 will because the Board considers that the consumer demand, information services be David Wallis.
Chairman meets the independence criteria and business performance.
In addition, set out in the New Combined Code.
papers are submitted annually on other The Chairman and the Chief Executive officer However, since the New Combined Code subjects, including treasury, insurance, have written accountabilities that have does not treat the Chairman as being pensions and relations with shareholders.
been approved by the Board.
The Chairman independent after appointment, we do is responsible for leading the Board, not count the Chairman as an independent Risk management process facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive Director when considering Following publication of guidance all members and ensuring that it operates compliance with the New Combined for Directors on internal control: Internal effectively in the interests of shareholders.
Consequently, from January 2004, Control Guidance for Directors on the The Chief Executive Officer is responsible the Chairman no longer sits on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, for leadership of the business and Audit or Remuneration committees.
the Board confirms that a there is a implementation of strategy.
continuing process for identifying, evaluating The Company Secretary is responsible, and managing the significant risks faced The Board has agreed that the role of the on behalf of the Chairman, for ensuring by the Group b the process has been in non-executive Directors, through meetings that all Board and committee meetings are place for the period under review and up to of the Board and its committees, is to properly conducted, that Directors receive the date of the approval of the Annual Report challenge constructively and help develop appropriate information prior to meetings and and Accounts and c this process is regularly proposals on strategy: review management for ensuring that governance requirements reviewed by the Board and accords with performance and the monitoring and are considered and implemented.
The Management Board is responsible for The Management Board, comprising the implementing Group strategy, monitoring divisional Managing Directors and certain business performance, approving budgets functional heads, plays a critical role in and capital expenditure for recommendation delivering this.
to the Board and ensuring efficient management of the Group.
The members The Operating and financial review of the Management Board are described on page 24 onwards and the other on page 50. business reports in this document describe how the Management Board, as the prime Our devolved, customer-facing structure operational body of the business, is Management Board is essential if we are to deliver what our discharging its duties.
Report by committee Chairman, customers demand.
However we also have Gareth Voyle to work together to manage the Group as a whole in an effective way that preserves our values, exploits Group synergies and enables us to implement Group initiatives.
52 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued The Board continues to believe that the five areas listed below are those which Audit committee are fundamental to the success of the Report by committee Chairman, Companys business.
Bob Davies Food safety Millions of people eat our products.
It is paramount that we ensure food safety.
Our customers The Audit committees role includes The Head of Operational Review also We serve few, very important customers.
reviewing the Groups accounts and has the right to raise issues directly with We make products which carry their brand the preliminary and full year results the committee if he considers it appropriate.
The health of these relationships announcements and the financial The independent non-executive Directors is vital to our business.
judgements contained in them: reviewing always meet privately with the external financial controls and systems of internal auditor at least once a year.
Our consumers financial control and risk management: Central to the success of our business has monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness We hold a committee meeting prior been offering a variety of innovative and of the internal audit function: recommending to the preliminary and interim results attractive products which are of high quality and reviewing the appointment of the announcements, at which we review yet convenient to a consumer who is external auditor, ensuring its independence the Groups financial performance increasingly demanding these attributes.
and objectivity and the independence and the external auditors report in relation and effectiveness of the audit process.
to this, as well as, in March, their audit Our people It also reviews the Groups policy on findings.
The committee reviews with To grow and deliver in the current use of the auditor for non-audit services the external auditor and management environment requires good people.
We need and the whistle-blowing policy.
The the robustness of the numbers, any areas to recruit, retain and develop our people to committee is required to report to the of judgement and any concerns raised support our growth.
We also need to share Board any recommendations for action by the external auditor.
In the light of this the same values if we are to work or improvement.
discussion we make recommendations cohesively and in a common direction.
to the Board concerning the announcement.
The members of the committee are myself Our investment and the other independent non-executive We review with the Head of Operational Directors excluding the Chairman of the Review his planned audit schedule, the We have grown substantially over the past Board and we usually meet three times resource available to him, progress against few years and plan to do so in a sustainable annually.
The Board considers that I am the the plan, as well as reports on his findings way.
It is necessary that all of the key person with recent and relevant financial and any frauds discovered.
Once a year resources are available to allow that growth experience, being a qualied accountant, we review the Groups risk management to continue and that our investments Finance Director of East Midlands Electricity process to ensure that controls over deliver targeted returns.
from 1994 to 1998 and, currently, Chief financial and non-financial risks are in place Executive officer of Arriva plc.
We also discuss Illustrative examples of how we manage annually the effect of any proposed new these risks are set out on pages 33 to 42.
The external auditor, the Head of accounting policies and practice on Group Operational Review who has responsibility accounts.
Further details of the Groups risk These five big risks are monitored by the for internal audit and the Company management process and Groups Board, which receives regular reports and Secretary attend all committee meetings.
internal control framework are described presentations in these areas.
Once a year The Board Chairman, the Chief Executive on pages 53 and 54. the Audit committee and the Board formally officer, the Group Finance Director, review these risks and the processes in place the Group Financial Controller and other In 2003 we started to assume some to manage them to consider whether they executives usually attend by invitation.
of the new responsibilities assigned to us are still appropriate and to identify any under the New Combined Code.
I expect significant increase in risk that requires action.
The committee has the power to call the Audit committee to be able to report for information from management and full compliance with the New Combined In arriving at the five big risks, the Board to consult directly with the external auditor Code in 2004 in the next Annual Report identified over thirty subsidiary risks, or its advisors as considered appropriate.
which all fall into one or more of the above categories.
The management of these subsidiary risks has been allocated to specic senior managers.
All of the risks are Our responsibilities Geest PLC 53 re-evaluated formally by the Management Framework: The Group maintains a wellfinancial performance, business Board at least once a year to assess whether established control framework comprising development plans, Group management they are still appropriate and to identify any clear structures and accountabilities, wellissues, financial and operating budgets significant increase in risk that requires action.
understood policies and procedures and and forecasts, development and succession, budgeting and review processes.
The key capital expenditure proposals and key The results of the Management Boards elements within the control structure are performance indicators.
assessment and any proposed actions as follows: the Board establishes corporate are considered by the Audit committee strategy and the Groups business objectives Reports on Group and divisional performance and the Board.
and the Management Board and divisional are discussed at Board meetings.
The Board management integrate these objectives also regularly receives reports from executives The internal control framework into divisional business strategies with and functional heads on key risk subjects.
Responsibility: The Board is ultimately supporting financial objectives.
responsible for the Groups system of internal There is a Group wide policy governing control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Each division and its constituent operating appraisal and approval of investment However, such a system is designed units have formal management structures expenditure and asset disposals.
Post to manage rather than eliminate the risk with clear denition of responsibility and completion reviews are performed of failure to achieve business objectives which operate within well-dened policies, on material investment expenditure and can provide only reasonable and covering food safety, financial matters, and reported to the Board.
not absolute assurance against material health and safety and the environment, misstatement or loss.
human resources, purchasing and The Audit committee receives reports engineering.
Policies and control procedures on the system of internal financial controls The Board, whilst maintaining its overall are documented in manuals which are from the external auditor and internal responsibility for managing risk within the distributed to each business unit.
financial audit function and reviews the Group, has delegated the detailed design process for monitoring the effectiveness and operation of the system of internal Review: The Management Board meets of internal controls, both financial controls to the Management Board.
monthly to consider Group and divisional and non-financial.
The internal control framework Safety committee Report by committee Chairman, Raymond Destin Responsibility Board From left to right: David Barney, Ann Savage, Gareth Voyle, Raymond Destin, Ramesh Patel, John Gorman, Dawn Durrant Framework Clear delegated authorities to management Policies and procedures The Safety committee under its former The members of the committee are myself, Communication up and down the chain name the Quality committee has been the Chief Executive officer, the Company in place for a number of years to provide Secretary, the Group Technical Director assurance to the Board that food safety and three Technical Managers from across risks are being properly managed.
The Group Technical Director the Board decided to widen the committees has the right to raise concerns directly with Review remit to include health and safety and myself.
The committee meets three or four Audit committee overall system environmental matters and I was appointed times annually.
Safety committee food safety, health and safety Chairman.
The committees responsibilities and environment are to oversee the management of food At each meeting we consider a number Board and the Management Board key performance indicators in risk areas safety, health and safety and environment, of key performance indicators and receive to review legislative and best practice an update on any new developments.
developments and to make We also consider some issues in depth.
recommendations to management and For example, in 2003, we reviewed the Audit the Board on policy and required actions.
procedures we have in place to secure Internal audit Operational Review food safety throughout our supply chain.
External audit The minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
54 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Audit: status by the British Retail Consortium.
Directors training and professional Financial controls: The Group has an internal All sites are audited at least annually development financial audit function, within Operational and any issues are reported to the Safety All Directors receive necessary training in their Review, which is reviewed by the Audit committee and to the Board.
Health duties and responsibilities on appointment.
committee annually for the appropriateness and safety and environmental issues An induction to the business including site visits of resource and authority.
The Head of are also monitored by the Board and there and briengs is also arranged and some Operational Review reports directly to the are systems in place to audit performance.
of the Board meetings take place at our sites Audit committee on the results of its work.
All sites also undergo an annual assessment to enable the Board to understand the Operational Review has a programme in respect of insured risks such as physical relevant business, view the facilities and meet to conduct an in-depth review of financial, security and fire.
The operational and compliance controls, and Company Secretary is responsible for advising compliance with Group financial policies To underpin the effectiveness of controls, the Board on all legal and governance at business units.
Operational Review it is the Groups policy to recruit and develop matters.
She also supplies all Directors with reports its findings to divisional and Group and manage people of high calibre, integrity information on relevant legal and best practice management, and any material issues and appropriate disciplines.
In addition, all Directors have are reported to the Audit committee.
annual employee appraisal process which access to the advice of the Company Secretary The internal audit programme, which assesses performance against agreed and to independent professional advice is based on an annual risk assessment objectives and the Groups values, and where needed, at the Companys expense.
of the operating units, is approved by identies necessary training to maintain the Audit committee.
and enhance standards of performance.
The Company Secretary will maintain a In addition, many of our sites have undergone record of Directors training and development Non-financial controls: The Group has an audit to assess compliance against our activities and this will be considered as part an internal team, which audits production employee welfare and human rights policy, of the Directors appraisal process from 2004. sites for technical integrity and food safety.
and all site Human Resources Managers This team is accredited with independent are now trained in the requirements.
Nomination committee Report by committee Chairman, Sir John Banham The Nomination committee is responsible When seeking a candidate for a vacancy, However, in view of the acquisition of Crudi for reviewing the size and composition of the committee considers the particular early in 2003 and Raymonds significant the Board: for making recommendations skills and knowledge required and European food industry experience, we felt to the Board on the appointment of executive approves a job and candidate specication that shareholders would be best served by and non-executive Directors, and their and a process for selection, which will re-appointing him to the Board for a further re-appointment following retirement by usually involve use of an external search three years.
This was endorsed at the 2003 rotation: and for ensuring that succession consultancy or open advertising.
The committee meets committees policy is that all Directors as required, but at least twice a year, and should have written terms of appointment All Directors are required to submit comprises the independent non-executive non-executive or service contracts executive themselves for re-election every three Directors and myself.
The Company setting out what is required of them, years, and Directors appointed during Secretary attends all meetings.
At least once including time commitment.
The committee the year are required to seek election at a year the committee reviews the balance will also review the other significant time the first AGM following their appointment.
of skills, knowledge and experience of the commitments of any candidate.
My other In accordance with best practice it is also Board, and the Chief Executive officer is significant commitments are described Group policy that non-executive Directors invited to discuss Board and Management in the biography on page 49. should normally serve a maximum of six Board succession.
years, in two three-year terms.
We are in During 2003 there was a potential vacancy the process of appointing a new independent for a non-executive Director as Raymond non-executive Director to succeed Bob Davies Destin had served a six-year term.
who has now served six years.
Our responsibilities Geest PLC 55 Appraisal In 2004 the Board will build on its existing Remuneration committee appraisal process in order to comply with Report by committee Chairman, the New Combined Code.
David Wallis The Chief Executive officer appraises the executive Directors against their written accountabilities and the Geest values, contract were terminated in conjunction and reports the outcome to the Chairman.
with a change of control of the Company.
The Chairman and the other non-executive Directors similarly appraise the Chief The Remuneration committee makes We also asked New Bridge Street Executive Officer.
recommendations to, and determines Consultants to benchmark the pay on the Boards behalf all aspects of pay and benets packages of our executive The non-executive Directors will be and benets of the Chairman, executive Directors against the market and we intend appraised individually by the Chairman, Directors and members of the Management to repeat this in 2005 and every two years and the non-executive Directors, led Board and other aspects of Group pay and after that.
The survey was used as a basis by the Senior non-executive Director, benets.
The Directors pay and benets for determining basic pay increases for will appraise the Chairman.
report on pages 82 to 91 sets out in more these individuals in July 2003.
Of course, detail the committees policies and practice when making decisions on pay and Additionally all members of the Board will in this area.
We meet at least three times benefit matters, we are mindful be asked to complete a questionnaire relating a year.
Bob Davies, Raymond Destin of shareholder concerns and the wider to Board processes and performance.
The and myself sit on the committee, and the Company environment.
We believe that Chairman will report the collective findings Chairman of the Board normally attends the executive Directors now have a pay to the Board and agree any actions required.
The Company and benets package that is in line with The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Secretary attends all meetings.
our policy and provides incentives that committees will also appraise their are aligned to returns to shareholders.
During 2003, we appointed New Bridge Street Consultants to advise us on the This year, the only change we are proposing Relations with shareholders and Annual design and implementation of the Executive is to the peer group against which the General Meeting Co-Investment Plan COIP, which aims Companys Total Shareholder Return Details of our investor relations programme to incentivise the executive Directors and is measured, for the purposes of the Long are set out on pages 45 to 47.
The Board the Management Board to deliver superior Term Incentive Plan and the Company Share receives regular feedback from executive returns to shareholders, over the long term.
The original group of food Directors following meetings with At the same time we put in place guidelines producers and processors has diminished shareholders and there is an annual Board that will require participants to build up over signicantly over the past seven years and report on shareholder relations.
Analyst time a holding of shares in the Company so the committee felt that the FTSE 250 sector, and broker notes are also circulated to equal to a minimum of a years basic excluding investment companies, would all Board members.
Shareholders endorsed this plan be a more suitable index.
We looked at how at the AGM in May 2003.
Full details are past awards would have fared against this In 2003 we asked Financial Dynamics to on pages 83 and 89. index and the result was broadly consistent, carry out a survey of shareholder opinion, as you can see from the graph on page 84. and our broker is invited to a Board meeting In conjunction with the introduction of the We informed our major shareholders of this bi-annually to feed back market views.
COIP, the executive Directors agreed to give and received their support.
Apart from this, Meetings between major shareholders up in 2006 their contractual right to receive I do not anticipate any significant change in and the Chairman and other non-executive enhanced compensation, if their service pay and benets policy or practice in 2004.
Directors are arranged on request.
At the Annual General Meeting, as well as Summary of Board governance the Chairman issuing a formal statement, Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Independent committee committee committee the Chief Executive officer informally reviews developments during the year and all Sir John Banham Yes No No Chairman Directors are available before and during Bob Davies Yes Chairman Yes Yes the meeting for questions and informal Raymond Destin Yes Yes Yes Yes discussion.
We announce the results David Wallis Yes Yes Chairman Yes of proxy votes, including abstentions, at the meeting and we also publish Gareth Voyle No No No No them on our website.
Mark Pullen No No No No Jane Scriven No No No No The Board considers the Chairman to be independent.
The Chairman was a member of the Audit and Remuneration committees during the period, but resigned in January 2004 so that the New Combined Code requirements could be met.
