Corporate Governance Introduction During 2003, the Board consisted of the Chairman John The Board remains fully committed to high standards of Robinson, the Group Chief Executive Peter Johnson, three other corporate governance throughout the Group.
The Listing Rules Executive Directors and four Non Executive Directors during the of the Financial Services Authority require UK listed companies period 10 April to 7 October there were three Non Executive to report on the manner in which they apply the Principles of Directors.
During the year each of the Non Executive Directors Good Governance and the extent to which they comply with has at all times acted independently of management and has the Provisions set out in the Combined Code on Corporate had no relationships which would materially interfere with the Governance issued by the Hampel Committee on Corporate exercise of their independent judgement and decision making.
Governance in 1998 the Combined Code.
This Report, The Board is of the view that the Non Executive Directors play together with the information set out in the Remuneration an important role in upholding corporate governance and also Report on pages 38 to 43, is published pursuant to the Combined ensure that no individual or group dominates the Boards Code which deals with directors, directors remuneration, decision making process.
relations with and accountability to shareholders and the The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are audit of the Company.
separately held and there is a clear division of responsibilities Statement of Compliance between each position.
Following publication in January 2003 of the Higgs Review Michael Blackburn is the Senior Independent Non on Non Executive Directors and the Smith Report on Audit Executive Director and served throughout the year Committees, the Combined Code was amended and a revised in this recognised position.
Code introduced for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2003 the New Code.
In light of Higgs, the One third of the Directors submit themselves for re-election Board reviewed its procedures and governance policies and each year at the Annual General Meeting in accordance implemented a number of changes including Board Committee with the Articles of Association.
In addition each Director membership and induction programmes for new directors.
The seeks re-election every three years in accordance with the Board has also reviewed the New Code and will take whatever Combined Code.
New Directors appointed during any year steps it considers appropriate to comply with its requirements.
seek re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes that there is already substantial compliance Christopher Bartram, an independent Non Executive Director with the New Code and a number of disclosures have been resigned from the Board on 10 April 2003.
Baroness Dean of included in this Report and Accounts to reect its new and Thornton-le-Fylde was appointed a Non Executive Director revised provisions.
on 7 October 2003 and Keith Cushen took early retirement The Board considers that it has fully complied with the provisions on 31 December 2003 and resigned from the Board with effect set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code during the year.
The Board of Directors An induction programme is provided for new Directors which The business and management of the Company is the collective includes the provision of a comprehensive set of background responsibility of the whole Board.
During 2003 the Board met information on the Group and the corporate governance policies formally, as a whole, 10 times.
Twice yearly the Board spends time and procedures in operation.
New Non Executive Directors are with a business unit in both the UK and the US which includes also provided with the opportunity of attending a training course site visits, presentations from local management and meeting on the role and responsibilities of holding such a position.
The Board reviews the performance of each of its Formal agenda and reports are provided to Directors one trading businesses in detail at each Board meeting and in July week prior to the meeting, thus allowing sufficient time for undertook a Strategic review.
There is a formal schedule of detailed review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
matters reserved for consideration and approval by the Board The Chairman and Group Chief Executive maintain regular contact and these include the annual budget, major land purchases with all Directors.
The Group Company Secretary attends all Board and investment proposals, the approval of annual and interim and Board Committee meetings and in addition, all Directors have results and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management.
direct access to the Group Company Secretary for advice and services.
The Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct There are four standing Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, procedures are followed at all Board and Committee meetings and Nomination and the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee reports directly to the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
Each of these Committees operates within clearly dened terms of reference and reports back to the Board.
The Board has adopted a procedure whereby Directors may The terms of reference in operation for the Board and its four seek independent professional advice relating to the carrying standing Committees can be found on the Companys investor out of their duties.
Additional During 2003 the Board carried out a comprehensive self information on each of these Committees is set out later in this appraisal which was led by the Senior Independent Non section and also in the Remuneration Report in respect of the Executive Director.
All Directors and the Group Company Remuneration Committee.
Secretary participated in the exercise.
During 2004, the Board During the year, there were no absences from any Board meetings intends to repeat this process and has also implemented by any Director except Michael Blackburn and David Williams who procedures for the appraisal of Board Committees and individual were unable to attend the December Board meeting.
Directors to reect the requirements of the New Code.
George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 35 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Christopher Bartram was a member of the Audit and Current Members: Christine Cross Committee Chair, Brenda Remuneration Committees until his resignation on 10 April 2003.
Dean, and Stewart Cline John Robinson and Michael Blackburn were members of the The Company takes Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Audit Committee until 24 July 2003, when they retired from those very seriously and in 2003 published its first CSR report.
Committees following a review of the Committee structure and To recognise the importance of this area, a Board Committee composition in light of the Higgs and Smith reports and the consisting of both Non Executive and Executive Directors was New Code.
Keith Cushen was a member of the Corporate Social established in 2003, with formal terms of reference.
The Responsibility Committee until his resignation on 31 December Committee will be responsible for setting the Companys CSR 2003.
Brenda Dean was appointed to the Audit, Nomination and strategy and policies, and for performance monitoring and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees upon her appointment reporting.
It is intended to produce an annual CSR report to the Board on 7 October 2003. detailing the Companys strategy, policy and initiatives together Nomination Committee with identied key performance indicators.
Current Members: John Robinson Committee Chairman, The Committee met twice in 2003 and there were no absences.
Peter Johnson, Michael Blackburn and Brenda Dean Remuneration Committee This Committee has formal terms of reference and meets at Current Members: Michael Blackburn Committee Chairman, least once a year to review succession planning at both Board David Williams and Christine Cross and senior management level across the Group.
Consisting of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies are set Director and an independent Non Executive Director, the out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38-43.
The Committee Committee will also meet as and when necessary to consider has formal terms of reference.
the appointment of new Directors.
A rigorous process is in Relations with Shareholders and Investors place for the appointment of new Directors involving the use During the year, the Company has continued to maintain an of external recruitment consultants followed by meetings with active investor relations programme, encouraging constructive both the Committee and then with the Board as a whole together two-way communication with investors, fund managers and with the Group Company Secretary.
This ensures that the analysts.
Presentations are given at the time of both preliminary selection process is both formal and objective.
and interim results and at the Annual General Meeting when During the year, the Committee met on two occasions and investors are invited to attend.
Webcasts of both results there were no absences.
presentations, along with the question and answer sessions, are made available on the Company website.
Audit Committee Current members: David Williams Committee Chairman, The Company makes full use of its website Christine Cross and Brenda Dean www.
co. uk to provide information for shareholders and others interested in George Wimpey as The Committee consists of three independent Non Executive an investment opportunity.
David Williams is the Group Finance Director of Bunzl plc a post that he has held for several years and the Board Peter Johnson and Andrew Carr-Locke carried out an extensive is satisfied, in line with the New Code, that he has both current programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Group Chief investors throughout the year within guidance issued by the Executive, Group Finance Director and senior management Financial Services Authority.
Meetings were held in London, attend Committee meetings for specic items at the invitation Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin, Paris, New York, Boston, Chicago, of the Committee Chairman.
Austin, San Diego and San Francisco.
The Committee has formal terms of reference.
It receives reports Andrew Carr-Locke and the Group Treasurer held meetings from its external auditors,  LLP PwC, across the US with investors in the Companys US Private the Internal Audit Department and senior management at each Placement programme.
During the year subscribers to a new meeting.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the external Placement met with senior management of Morrison Homes.
audit process and for monitoring the effectiveness of internal The Companys joint brokers, Cazenove and ABN Amro Hoare controls and for considering major accounting issues.
The Govett attend two Board meetings a year to provide feedback Committee supports the Board in reviewing information which on the shareholder surveys that they each carry out following is sent to shareholders so as to ensure that it presents a balanced the publication of the Companys results and subsequent assessment of the Companys position.
In addition, the Committee meetings with management.
reviews the performance and objectivity of PwC and reviews the scope of their work and that of the Internal Audit department The Company is pleased to welcome private and institutional and the fees to be paid to PwC for both audit and non-audit shareholders to its Annual General Meeting.
The Board will be related work.
During the year the Committee met on three present at the meeting to answer questions and also available for occasions and there were no absences.
discussions with shareholders both prior to and after the Meeting.
36 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Accountability and Audit procedures which include a detailed environmental appraisal of The Board believes that the financial statements and reviews land prior to acquisition.
These procedures are subject to rigorous contained within this document present a balanced and review and authorisation.
understandable assessment of the Companys performance Development Activity and prospects.
The sound system of internal control within the There is a comprehensive framework for managing and Company enables the Board to make this statement.
controlling all site related activity.
This includes comprehensive The Audit Committee has a policy of not using the Companys Health and Safety procedures, regular performance monitoring Auditors for non-audit work if this could jeopardise the ability and clear accountability on customer satisfaction.
of the auditor to provide an independent and objective audit Financial and Operating Reporting opinion.
PwC currently carry out routine tax compliance work There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual following a competitive tender process.
The Committee takes budget approved by the Board.
profit and cash forecasts are the view that the carrying out of this work does not affect PwCs prepared and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The performance objectivity or independence due to its routine nature.
of each business is reviewed monthly by Divisional and Group management and subsequently reported to the Board against Internal Control both budget and forecast.
Particular emphasis is placed on the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system cash ow as well as profit and loss and balance sheet reporting, of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The and on key operating issues including health, safety and implementation and maintenance of the risk management and environmental matters.
internal control systems is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
It is recognised that the Control Self Assessment system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk During 2004, improved procedures will be in place which will of failure to achieve business objectives.
Consequently it can only require each business to represent on a regular basis, through provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material a formal Control Self Assessment process, its compliance with mis-statement or loss.
The system has been in place throughout the core policies and key controls governing the Group.
the period and is regularly reviewed within the Turnbull guidance Treasury on Internal Control.
The principal Treasury related risks, decisions and control Following the acquisition of Laing Homes in November 2002, processes are documented.
The Treasury Committee consisting of the business is now fully embedded in the risk management and Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman, Peter Johnson, Michael Blackburn, internal control processes of the Group.
the Group Treasurer and Group Tax and Insurance Manager meets quarterly to consider Treasury related issues, decisions and The Board has reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the control processes.
Group faces in its operations as documented in the Group Risk Schedule.
This Schedule is comprised of the key risks and is All of the above are subject to ongoing Internal Audit review.
regularly monitored for ongoing relevance.
Specic key operational Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee and senior risks include land purchase, health and safety, the environment and management by independently and objectively reviewing the product quality.
The Board, following its review, is satisfied with the effectiveness of risk management and the control environment.
process in place for risk identication and management and it is The Internal Audit methodology is aligned to the key elements satisfied with current control mechanisms and reporting lines that of the Groups internal control framework.
The results of all have been in place throughout the year and the programme of Internal Audit reviews are presented and discussed in detail at continuous improvement initiatives that has been implemented.
In addition to Audit Committee reporting, Internal Audit findings and conclusions are discussed at both The Group seeks to maintain high standards of business conduct the Group Executive Committee which meets at least monthly and operates under an established internal control framework, and consisted during the year of Peter Johnson Chairman, which can be described as follows: Andrew Carr-Locke, Stewart Cline, Keith Cushen and James Organisational Structure Jordan Group Company Secretary and at Divisional executive The Group operates through a number of operating businesses, meetings of George Wimpey UK and Morrison Homes.
Peter each with its own management board.
Clear reporting lines and Redfern, the Managing Director of George Wimpey UK became delegated authorities are in place.
The management and a member of the Group Executive Committee with effect from monitoring of risk and performance occur at multiple levels 1 January 2004. throughout the Group and the use of interactive review Going Concern processes provide successive assurance through the levels of The Directors are required under the Combined Code to have the management up to the Board.
satisfied themselves as to the Groups ability to continue in Land Purchase and Investment Appraisal existence for the foreseeable future.
A review has been carried There are clearly dened policies and procedures for the out and the Directors have concluded that the Group has purchase of land and for capital expenditure.
These include adequate resources and is justied in using the going concern detailed appraisal and review requirements and due diligence basis in preparing the financial statements.
George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 37
