74 GKN plc 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with the Combined Code ensuring that appropriate management development and Throughout 2003, GKN was in compliance with the 45 provisions of succession plans are in place: the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as it applied to the reviewing the environmental, health and safety performance Company during the year, except with regard to the requirement for a of the Group: recognised Senior Independent Director.
Following the appointment of Baroness Hogg as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director approving appointments to the Board and as Company Secretary, on 1 December 2003, GKN complied fully with this version of the Code.
and approving policiesrelating to Directors remuneration and the The following paragraphs, together with the report on Directors severance of Directors contracts: and remuneration on pages 80 to 89, provide a description of how the ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takesplace with shareholders.
14 Principles of this Combined Code have been applied within GKN.
A description of the role of the Board, together with that of A new Combined Code on Corporate Governance came into effect the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director for UK listed companies for reporting years beginning on or after and Company Secretary, is available on the GKN website at 1November 2003.
Although GKN is not obliged to report on its www.
com and further details of the Boards role in compliance with the new Code until the publication of the 2004 relation to the Groups systems of internal control and risk annual report in the spring of 2005, the Board has reviewed management are given on pages 78 and 79.
Descriptions its procedures with a view to complying with all of the detailed of the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to provisions of the new Code during 2004.
In accordance with the the principal Board Committees are given on pages 76 and 77.
Financial Reporting Councils request for companies to report early on the steps taken to implement the new Code, the following The Board currently comprises six executive and eight non-executive paragraphs also provide a description of how the new Combined Directors as listed in the table on page 78.
Biographical details of Code is being applied.
the Directors are given on pages 16 and 17.
With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under the Combined Code not to The Board of Directors be independent, all the non-executive Directors are regarded by the The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk The Board normally meets 10 times a year, two of such meetings to be assessed and managed: to set the Companys strategic aims, being held at subsidiary or joint venture companies.
Comprehensive ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place briefing papers are provided to all Directors one week before Board for the Company to meet its objectives, and review management meetings.
performance: to set the Companys values and standards and All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of ensure that its obligations to its shareholders including reporting to the Company Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that Board shareholders on the Boards stewardship and others are understood procedures are followed.
In addition, Directors may, in furtherance and met.
Specific responsibilities reserved to the Board include: of their duties, take independent professional advice, if necessary, setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and at the Companys expense.
medium-term projections: Chairman and Chief Executive reviewing operational and financial performance: The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since 1997.
Whilst collectively they are responsible for the leadership of approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: the Company, the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk the Board and ensuring its effectiveness and the Chief Executive management: is responsible for running the Companys business.
75 GKN plc 2003 In November 2003, GKN announced that, following selection by Director re-election the Nominations Committee and Board approval, Roy Brown will All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first replace Sir David Lees as Chairman following Sir Davids retirement Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting in May.
Under the articles of association of the Company, each of the Directors is required to retire by rotation at least once every three Induction and professional development years.
Details of the Directorsretiring and seeking re-election at On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction an AGM are given to shareholders in the Notice of Meeting.
pack which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors Communicating with shareholders responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a Meetings between Directors, senior management and major number of other governance-related issues.
This is supplemented institutional shareholders are held during the year in accordance by a briefing with the Company Secretary.
The Director meets with with GKNs investor relations programme and when required in the Chief Executive to be briefed on the general Group strategy relation to particular issues.
The Senior Independent Director and with the Managing Directors in relation to each individual and the other non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend business portfolio.
Plant visits are organised as necessary for new presentations to analysts and shareholders, in particular the non-executive Directors.
External training, particularly on matters annual and interim results presentations.
relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities In fulfilment of his obligations under the new Combined Code, of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
the Chairman will give feedback to the Board on issues raised with Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be him by major shareholders.
This will be supplemented by twice identified in annual performance reviews see below or on an ad yearly feedback to the Board on meetings between management hoc basis.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review and investors, and the non-executive Directorswill receive an by the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the annual briefing from the Companys brokers on the markets induction of new Directors both into the business and as to their perception of GKN.
Existing arrangements for the whole Board roles and responsibilities as Directors, as well as with assisting in to receive periodically a presentation by external consultants on the ongoing training and development of Directors.
investor perceptions and for external brokers reports on GKN to be circulated to all Directors will be maintained.
Performance evaluation Formal evaluations of the performance of the Board and of the All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and principal Board Committees will be conducted by the Chairman in shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and 2004.
The process will build on that developed in 2002 when the to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was reviewed covering, Shareholders at the meeting are advised as to the level of proxy inter alia, composition, arrangements for and content of meetings, votes received including the percentage for and against each Committee terms of reference, Director training and visits to operating resolution following each vote on a show of hands, and, from sites, access to information and administrative procedures.
As in the 2004 AGM, abstentions will also be advised.
2002, the results of the evaluation will be reported to the Board and In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results agreed recommendations for improvement will be implemented.
presentations and City announcements generally, GKN endeavours Evaluation of individual Directors in their role as members to present an accurate, objective and balanced picture in a style and of the Board will also be conducted by the Chairman in 2004. format which is appropriate to the intended audience.
The GKN website The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation provides information about the Group including copies of annual and of the Chairman and will meet at least annually with the other interim reports and presentations made to institutional investors.
non-executive Directorsto appraise his performance.
76 GKN plc 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Committees reviewing the Groups December trading update announcement The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are prior to release: available upon request and on the GKN website: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: Executive Committee reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial The Executive Committee comprises the executive Directors under statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Committee is tasked values and proposed International Accounting Standards: with overseeing and directing the activitiesof the Group, reviewing Group strategy and deciding how the various risks facing the Group reviewing and approving the 2002 audit fee and reviewing are to be managed.
It also reviews acquisitions and divestments non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors in 2002: and approves major human resource policy issues including reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups management development and training.
2003 accounts, which included key areas of extended scope work, Chairmans Committee keyrisks on the accounts, confirmations of auditor independence The Chairmans Committee comprises all the non-executive and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement Directors together with the Chief Executive under the chairmanship for the audit: of the Chairman.
The Committee is a forum for the Chairman and reviewing an annual report on the Groups systems of internal Chief Executive to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive control and its effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results Directors on particular issues.
of the review see page 79 and receiving regular updates on key Audit Committee risk areas of financial control: The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance Directors other than Klaus Murmann.
It is currently chaired by of significant recent acquisitions: RoyBrown but from the conclusion of the Companys 2004 Annual General Meeting will be chaired by Sir Peter Williams.
reviewing the risks associated with major business programmes: and The Committee reviewed its terms of reference in 2003 in the reviewing the internal audit functions terms of reference, its 2003 light of the new Combined Code and recommended to the Board work programme and quarterly reports on its work during the year.
certain changes, all of which have been implemented.
Under its From 2004 the Audit Committee will meet at least four times a revised terms of reference, the Committee monitors the integrity year, including meetings before the annual and interim results of the Companys financial statements and the effectiveness of announcements and at the commencement of the annual external the external audit process.
It is responsible for ensuring that an audit process.
Members attendance record at meetings of the appropriate relationship between GKN and the external auditors Committee in 2003 is given on page 78. is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
internal audit function and is responsible for approving, upon Should there be any disagreement between the Committee and the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment the Board which cannot be resolved, the Committee has the right and termination of the Head of that function.
From 2004 the to report the issue to shareholders within the Companys next Committee will review annually its terms of reference and its annual report.
effectiveness and recommend to the Board any changes No person other than the members of the Committee is entitled to required as a result of such review.
be present at meetings but others may be invited to attend by the In 2003, the Audit Committee, operating under its previous terms Committee.
Sir David Lees, who, as Chairman of the Board, ceased of reference, discharged its responsibilities by: to be a member of the Committee in November 2003 to comply with the requirements of the new Combined Code, has continued to act reviewing the Groups draft 2002 financial statements and 2003 as an adviser to the Committee in the absence currently of another interim results statement prior to Board approval and reviewing non-executive Director having the financial background required the external auditors detailed reports thereon: under the new Code.
A non-executive Director with the appropriate 77 GKN plc 2003 qualifications will be appointed in 2004.
The Head of the internal The Committee has access to such information and advice both from audit function and the external auditors usually attend meetings within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it of the Committee.
At each meeting there is an opportunity for the deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants external auditors, and annually an opportunity for the Head of in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
internal audit, to discuss matters with the Committee without any Nominations Committee executive management being present.
Both the Head of internal The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman Directors and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the of the Committee outside of formal Committee meetings.
Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is dealing with The Audit Committee has the specific task of keeping under the appointment of a successor as Chairman of the Board when review the nature and extent of non-audit services provided the Senior Independent Director chairs the Committee.
by the external auditors in order to ensure that objectivity and The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes independence are maintained.
As a matter of policy, the auditors recommendations to the Board on candidates for appointment are excluded from invitations to undertake assignments of a as Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving consultancy nature.
For other non-audit work, the policy is that full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs GKN does not use the external auditorsunless there are compelling of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the reasons to do so, i. e. they can provide a unique skill or a service composition of the Chairmans and Nominations Committees and not readily available from any other source.
Under the policy, the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration agreed by the Board, anyproposal to use the auditors for non-audit Committees.
It reviews regularly the structure, size and composition work must be submitted to the Group Finance Director who will, of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and depending on the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation experience and the independence of the non-executive Directors, of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditors have and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
in place processes to ensure their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that where they do provide nonThe Committee meets periodically when required.
Members audit services, their independence is not threatened.
They have attendance record at meetings of the Committee in 2003 is given written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in their opinion, on page 78. they are independent.
The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee in making appointments to the various The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent nonpositions on the Board and as Company Secretary.
These executive Directors under the chairmanship of Baroness Hogg.
procedures, under which the Committee agrees a description of The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of service the role, experience and capabilities for a Director, are available on and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors and the GKNs website.
The Committee has access to such information and Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration policy advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the which is approved annually by the Board.
It is also responsible for Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment determining the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon which of external executive search consultants, where appropriate.
the service of executive Directors isterminated having regard to a The procedures referred to above were used in the appointment severance policy adopted by the Board.
It also prepares for approval during 2003 of Sir Christopher Meyer and Helmut Mamsch as by the Board the annual report on Directors remuneration set out non-executive Directors and for the appointment of Roy Brown on pages 80 to 89. as successor as Chairman with effect from May 2004.
This included The Committee meets periodically when required.
Members an assessment of the time commitment expected from the Director attendance record at meetings of the Committee in 2003 is given and, for the Chairman, recognising the need for his availability on page 78.
No person other than the members of the Committee in the event of a major corporate action.
Independent executive is entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited by search consultants were used in connection with each appointment.
No Director nor the Company Secretary is Sir David Lees, as current Chairman, was not a member of the present when the Committee considersmatters relating to himself Nominations Committee panel which recommended to the Board or acts in matters relating to himself.
the appointment of Roy Brown as successor to Sir David.
78 GKN plc 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Directors attendance record commercial impact have arisen or any significant new risks have The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of been identified, with subsequent reporting to the next Board the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during meeting if appropriate.
2003 was as follows: Continuing processes are in place for all parts of the Group Audit Remuneration Nominations to assess the major strategic, commercial and financial risks to Board Committee Committee Committee Director 10 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 6 meetings which their operations are exposed, the social responsibilities a relating to such operations and the way in which such risks and Sir David Lees 10 3 3 2 2 6 Chairman responsibilities are monitored, managed and controlled.
Social BaronessHogg 10 4 8 6 responsibilities concern the responsibilities of the Group to various Deputy Chairman and stakeholders including its employees, the communities in which Senior Independent Director it operates, its business partners and the environment including behaving ethically and with regard to human rights.
The Groups Executive Directors social responsibility review is on pages 32 to 41.
These processes Kevin Smith 10 6 are summarised in a risk map which is reviewed at least annually Chief Executive by the Audit Committee.
Richard Clowes 10 DickEtches10 Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review Ian Griffiths 9 10 their business risks and to report on whether there has been any NealKeating 10 material breakdown in their internal controls.
Companies also have NigelStein 10 to confirm annually whether they have complied with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with internal policies on matters Other independent non-executive Directors Roy Brown 10486 such as competition law, employment law, ethics, document Sir Ian Gibson 10 4 8 6 management, data protection and employee disclosure.
Risk b Helmut Mamsch 1 1 1 1 1 1 profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify accidental c Sir Christopher Meyer 4 5 1 3 3 4 4 4 risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
Dr Klaus Murmann 7 10 6 8 5 6 In implementing its policy on managing accidental risk, the Sir Peter Williams 10 4 8 6 Group pursues a systematic integrated loss prevention approach Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend as a member.
to safeguard peoples health, the environment, an uninterrupted supply to its customers, its assets and its earnings, under the Internal control auspices of a Group Loss Prevention Council.
The Council formulates The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges and recommends Group loss prevention policies and acts as a its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk steering group for loss prevention activities across Group operations.
management and carries out regular reviews of their effectiveness.
The Group has one major 50:50 joint venture, AgustaWestland, The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the which was formed in 2001 when GKN and Finmeccanica merged their Groups ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The AgustaWestland The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility Audit Committee whose members include the Finance Director of for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the GKN plc is responsible for the overview of the corporate governance Group and for deciding how these are to be managed.
There is procedures adopted by AgustaWestland that are appropriate to the a standing agenda item at every Executive Committee meeting business and comply with the requirements of both shareholders.
to enable members of the Committee to advise if any material internal control issues, serious accidents or events having a major a Resigned as a member of the Audit Committee in November 2003 and of the Remuneration Committee in February 2003. b Appointed 1 December 2003. c Appointed 1 August 2003.
79 GKN plc 2003 The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, receiving annual reports from the Audit Committee on whether manage and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects the systems of internal control and risk management are operating of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can The Audit Committee, which has independent access to the only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against external auditors and to the internal audit function, is responsible material misstatement or loss.
for reviewing the ongoing control processes.
It achieves this by: The review process reviewing and approving the terms of reference and major findings The Board reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal of the internal audit department.
This department has a risk-based control and risk management on an ongoing basis by: work programme which is reviewed by the Audit Committee, and setting the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional its purpose is to review and test the systems, controls, processes, level and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget procedures and practices across the Group.
The Head of internal and medium-term projections.
Central to this exercise is a review audit, who reports directly to the Group Chief Executive, has access of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps to, and regular reviews with, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
being taken to manage these: There is an established process to review the implementation of the recommendations of the department and all its reports are reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated seen by the relevant members of the Executive Committee: forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to reviewing reports from management, the internal audit function optimise operational and financial performance: and the external auditors on the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management.
In particular, in advance of retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment the announcement of the Groups results for each year, it reviews a policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure, major summary of the annual detailed divisional reports on their business contracts and financing arrangements.
Below Board level there risks and internal control processes: and are clearly defined management authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, major contracts, acquisitions, investments discussing with management the resolution of control issues and divestments, together with an established framework for their raised by Board members or in reports reviewed by it.
appraisal, which includes a risk analysis and post-implementation The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems plan, and where appropriate, a post-acquisition review: of internal control and risk management during the period covered receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having by this annual report.
It confirms that the processes described approved the operating policies and controls for this function: above, which accord with the guidance on internal control now appended to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the performing at least annually a review of the Groups pension fund Turnbull Guidance have been in place throughout that period arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes: and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
receiving reports at least annually, following their review by the Executive Committee, on environmental, health and safety performance of the Groups operations.
The Executive Committee also reviews interim reports on health and safety performance: reviewing at least annually management development and succession plans.
The Executive Committee also reviews management development issues twice a year: and
