CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Overview Greene King is committed to high standards of corporate governance, for which the board is accountable to shareholders.
The company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period and to the date of this report.
Governance structure The board comprises a non-executive chairman and three other non-executive directors and five executive directors.
The division of the roles of chairman and chief executive and the balanced composition of the board are felt to create an effective forum that provides leadership and control.
The non-executive directors all exercise independent judgement and have a range of skills and experience.
The board regards Graham Greene as being the senior independent non-executive director.
He has diverse business interests that ensure his independence from management, in spite of his having been a non-executive director for many years.
The board meets regularly, has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and are provided with full and timely access to all relevant information, plus the opportunity to question management as required.
Board appointments are considered by the nomination committee under agreed terms of reference, with non-executive directors being appointed for terms of three years.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following their appointment and subsequently in every third year.
Where directors are appointed to the board and it is the first time they have held office in a quoted company, they are provided with access to appropriate external training, which continues to be made available during their tenure in office.
Communication Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal media used.
In addition, the AGM, which is well attended, is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with shareholders, who have a full opportunity to ask questions.
The chairman of the board, as chairman of the remuneration and nomination committees, and the chairman of the audit committee are available to answer questions at the AGM.
All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with both the articles and the Combined Code.
Regular dialogue is maintained with key shareholders involving an exchange of views and information.
The company also maintains a web site www.
co. uk to provide up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor-relations section.
All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for investment analysts briefings.
Financial reporting The annual report and interim statement are felt to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects and the board ensures that all other public, regulatory and statutory reports are similarly presented.
Internal control The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these and other issues.
During the period and to the date of this report, the company had processes in place to implement in full the guidance on internal controls produced by the Turnbull Committee, and in particular to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced.
47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Such systems can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded, that the financial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable, and against material misstatement or loss.
Similarly, the system can reduce, but not eliminate, the possibility of poor judgement in decision-making, human error, control processes being deliberately circumvented, management overriding the controls and the occurrence of unforeseen circumstances.
The board regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, including key performance indicator data on the significant risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective management of risk throughout the business at their regular meetings.
This group oversees the development of risk management strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and monitors progress made.
The audit committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
The board acknowledges that it is ultimately responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal assessment of the risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on a detailed report from, and subsequent discussions with, senior management.
No significant problems were disclosed in this report.
The control environment comprises the elements set out below: Control environment The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the significant risks faced.
Any issues arising from this process are discussed with operational management as needed.
Risk management process Major risks are identified, the financial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
Appropriate steps are then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and the audit committee of the board.
Internal audit The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, the audit committee assesses the procedures and scope of internal audit within the group, including seeking the views of the external auditors.
Business plans and budgets Business plans and detailed annual budgets covering all financial aspects of the groups business are evaluated and approved by the board.
The actual results are compared against these plans and budgets on a four-weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any appropriate action can be taken.
Capital and project control There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the original plan.
Certain clearly defined transactions are reserved for approval by the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of authority have been identified for employees.
Relationship with auditors The audit committee, which comprises solely independent non-executive directors, continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and agrees the scope and reviews the results of the full year audit and interim review each year.
The committee assesses the cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditors from time to time.
The company uses both the auditors and other accounting firms for non-audit work, and considers maintenance of objectivity, value for money and experience when making such decisions.
Audit independence The auditors report to the audit committee, on behalf of the board, on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements to ensure their independence from the company, including the periodic rotation of key team members.
The board is satisfied that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
