36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 40 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate attended the PMD course at Harvard Business School.
He joined Greggs in 1983 and was governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
appointed Managing Director in January 1984.
The Board considers that except as stated in this paragraph it has complied throughout the Malcolm Simpson Finance Director, 62, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with what is now period under review with the principles of governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined KPMG and then worked for eight years within the finance department of Procter and Gamble Code on corporate governance appended to the Listing Rules published by the UK Listing Limited.
He joined the Company in 1973 and was appointed Financial Director in 1975.
Authority the Combined Code effective during the financial year.
During the period under Stephen Curran, 60, joined the Board in 1981.
He was appointed Chairman of Candover review the Board has introduced some additional measures in response to the revised Investments plc in May 1999, having previously been Chief Executive of Candover since Combined Code published in July 2003.
With effect from 1 January 2003 the executive January 1991.
Prior to joining Candover in May 1981, he was a managing consultant with directors agreed without compensation to a reduction in their notice periods to one year, Coopers & Lybrand Associates and then an investment manager with what is now Cinven.
save that they will be entitled to a payment by way of liquidated damages calculated by He is a non-executive director of Jarvis Hotels plc and a number of unquoted companies.
reference to a two year notice period if termination takes place within 12 months following a With effect from the close of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 he will become change of control of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee considers that such the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
protection is reasonable for individuals who have given over 20 and 30 years service respectively to the Company and who intend to continue to do so for the remainder of Sonia Elkin OBE, 71, is a former CBI Director, responsible for its Regional organisation and their working lives.
policy in relation to Smaller Firms.
She was a Commissioner of the Manpower Services Commission and served on a DTI committee on deregulation.
She joined the Board in 1992, The following statements describe how the relevant principles and provisions of the Combined is Chairman of the Audit Committee and has been appointed as the Senior Independent NonCode are applied to the Company.
In addition they describe the measures taken by the Board Executive Director.
Sonia will be retiring as a director by rotation at the 2004 Annual General to address the relevant principles and provisions of the revised Combined Code, published in Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
July 2003, and relevant to the Company for the 2004 financial year.
Ian Gregg OBE, 64, qualified as a solicitor before joining the Company as Executive Chairman The Board and Managing Director on the death of his father in 1964.
He built the business up from a The Board, under the chairmanship of Derek Netherton, meets regularly to discharge its single-shop operation to a multi-divisional specialist retailer with almost 300 shops by the time duties.
At these meetings, it reviews Group strategy, performance, resources, risk management of its successful flotation in 1984.
Following the appointment of Mike Darrington as Managing procedures and other matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst the executive responsibility Director in January 1984, Ian continued in the role of Executive Chairman until July 1993. for running the Companys business rests ultimately with the Managing Director, He was then invited to become non-executive Chairman, which role he handed over to Derek Mike Darrington, the non-executive directors fulfil an essential role in ensuring that the Netherton in August 2002. strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully discussed and critically examined prior Susan Johnson OBE, 46, was appointed to the Board in March 2000.
She obtained an MBA to adoption.
During 2003, the Board met five times.
All directors attended all meetings.
in 1993 after which she pursued a career in sales and marketing before being appointed as The Board has adopted a paper identifying the separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive of the Northern Business Forum.
She is now an Executive Director of Managing Director.
The Chairman sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that the Board Yorkshire Forward.
is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable Bob Bennett, FCA, 56, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He trained as a it to discharge its duties.
The Board considers that it effectively leads and controls the Company.
Chartered Accountant with Spicer & Pegler and has, since 1993, been Group Finance Director All directors take decisions objectively and in the interests of the Company.
The non-executive of Northern Rock plc.
With effect from the close of the Companys Annual General Meeting directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and in 2004 he will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
monitor the reporting of performance.
All directors receive induction training on joining the Board and regularly update and refresh their knowledge through reading, attendance on relevant The Board includes a balance of executive and non-executive directors including independent courses and or activities outside the Company.
The Board meets with the Management Board at non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the a different operating division each year as part of the process of maintaining an awareness of the Boards decision taking.
The Board is satisfied that plans are in place for orderly succession to Companys activities and assessing the ability of the management team.
This meeting also affords the Board and to positions of senior management so as to maintain an appropriate balance of senior managers the opportunity to bring matters to the attention of the Board.
The Company skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
has also adopted whistle blowing procedures enabling employees to bring matters to the After carefully reviewing the guidance in the Combined Code, all of the non-executive directors are attention of the senior management and for the confidential proportionate and independent considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to be free from any consideration and follow-up of any matter so raised.
business or other relationship or circumstance which is likely to affect or to interfere with the The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 2 executive and 5 non-executive directors as exercise of their independent judgement.
The following relationships might appear to be capable of follows:- affecting the individual non-executive directors independence.
However, having considered these relationships carefully, the Board is of the view that they do not and that the individuals concerned Derek Netherton Chairman, 59, spent his career in investment banking and retired in 1996 are of sufficient strength of character to avoid allowing their independence to be so compromised: from his position as joint head of corporate finance at J Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
He is a non-executive director of Next plc, Hiscox plc, St Jamess Place Capital plc and Plantation & Ian Gregg is a member of the Companys pension scheme and a former employee of General Investments plc.
He was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2002 and was appointed the Company.
Chairman in August of the same year.
There have been no significant changes to the Sonia Elkin, Stephen Curran and Ian Gregg have all served on the Board for more than Chairmans other commitments during 2003.
9 years from the date of their first election.
Sir Michael Darrington Managing Director, 62, qualified as a Chartered Accountant and As stated in the interim announcement issued on 2 August 2002, the Board is continuing to then spent 17 years with United Biscuits, latterly in General Management.
During this time he take steps to add to the number of independent non-executive directors on the Board.
PAGE 40 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 41 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors must retire and seek The Nominations Committee currently comprises Derek Netherton - Chairman, all of the re-election at the first AGM following appointment.
Thereafter, one half of the directors non-executive directors and Mike Darrington Ian Gregg, Stephen Curran, Susan Johnson and other than those appointed since the last AGM being those who have been in office longest Bob Bennett were all appointed to the Committee during the year.
During 2003 it met since last re-election and any other director who has not been elected or re-elected at either of formally only once with all Committee members present but held several informal the two preceding AGMs must seek re-election at each AGM.
A resolution will be proposed at discussions during the year in order to progress the selection and recruitment of new nonthe AGM in 2004 to alter the Companys Articles of Association to require non-executive executive directors.
The Committees main functions are to review the balance and directors to seek re-election annually after they have served for over 9 years on the Board.
constitution of the Board: to advise the Board as to whether directors retiring by rotation should be nominated for re-election by the members: and to approve and manage the process All directors are able to receive training and to take independent professional advice at the for setting the specification for all Board appointments, identifying candidates who meet that expense of the Company.
They also have direct access to the Company Secretary, who is specification and making recommendations to the Board on the basis of merit and compliance responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
with objective criteria in respect of all new Board appointments.
In relation to the The performance of the Board, its Committees and of all directors is evaluated annually by the appointment of Bob Bennett, the Nominations Committee defined the criteria on the basis of Chairman in structured discussions with each director.
The Senior Non-Executive Director its assessment of the skills required which it agreed with the Board, engaged a recruitment conducts a similar evaluation of the Chairman.
The results are fed back to the Board via the consultant and held a series of interviews before deciding to recommend the Board to offer Nominations Committee and to individual directors.
These discussions are also used to the role to Bob Bennett as its preferred candidate.
identify individual and collective training needs.
The Board delegates some of its activities to the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference, which are available on request.
The Company Secretary acts as The Chairman ensures that there is effective communication with individual and institutional shareholders through the announcement of regular trading updates as well as general secretary to each of these Committees.
presentations after announcement of the interim and preliminary results and the posting of The Audit Committee currently consists of four independent non-executive directors results on the Companys website.
Sonia Elkin Chairman, Susan Johnson, Stephen Curran and Bob Bennett from the date of The Board considers that the AGM is the main forum for communication with investors, with his appointment.
During 2003 it met three times.
All Committee members attended all meetings in the period they were members.
The Committees main functions are to endeavour the chairmen of the Board and its committees available to answer any issues raised and any i to ensure that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and newly appointed non-executive directors being available to meet shareholders.
In addition, effective: ii to monitor the integrity of the financial statements and information published by the Company Secretary and the Companys Brokers draw the attention of the Board to all the Company: iii to review the Groups approach to risk management: and iv to monitor relevant shareholder communications.
The Board also review briefings and comments by compliance with the Listing Rules and the recommendations of the Combined Code.
analysis in order to maintain an understanding of market perceptions of the Company.
The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual and interim financial At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution and the number of statements issued to shareholders, compliance with financial reporting standards and the size abstentions is displayed.
All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report and and remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee also considers and makes accounts, are proposed at the AGM as separate resolutions.
recommendations to the Board in relation to the independence and objectivity of the external Accountability, Audit and Going Concern.
auditors including the impact of any non-audit work undertaken by them and their suitability for re-appointment.
The Audit Committee determines the scope of the external audit in The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable discussion with the external auditors and agrees their fees in respect of the audit.
assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This is fulfilled by the statements The Committee normally meets with the Finance Director and the external auditors in contained in the Chairmans statement and Managing Directors report, which supplement the attendance, although time is set aside annually for discussion between the Committee and the statutory accounts themselves.
A statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the external auditors and with the internal auditors, in each case in the absence of all executive preparation of accounts is given on page 14. directors, and the Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it sees fit.
The Audit Committee has reviewed whether, and is satisfied that, the Companys auditors, The Remuneration Committee currently consists entirely of independent non-executive KPMG Audit Plc, continue to be objective and independent of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc directors Ian Gregg Chairman, Stephen Curran, Sonia Elkin and Bob Bennett from the date does perform non-audit services for the Group but the Audit Committee is satisfied that its of his appointment when he replaced Derek Netherton.
objectivity is not impaired by such work non-audit fees amounted to 82,000 during 2003 and related mainly to taxation compliance services.
The Company has an internal audit All Committee members attended all meetings in the period they were members except that Bob Bennett was unable to attend one meeting due to its date having been fixed before his function.
This assists in its monitoring of systems of control and augments the examination appointment as a member of the Committee.
The Committees main duties are to determine carried out by the external auditors.
the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, performance-related After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has bonuses, share options and pension benefits of the executive directors and the Chairman on adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this behalf of the Board.
In order to assist with these duties the Committee, during 2002, used the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
services of external consultants, Monks Partnership.
The Committee is also responsible for the operation of the Companys share option schemes and, when requested by the Board or by the Risk Management.
Managing Director, for monitoring and making recommendations in respect of the level and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which covers all structure of remuneration for senior management.
A separate Executive Director Committee aspects of the business, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, any such system can only sets, after discussion with the Chairman, the fees for the non-executive directors so as to be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Companys ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration.
objectives and, therefore, is only able to provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 35 to 39 of this Annual Report.
The directors regularly review the risks to which the Company is exposed, as well as the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
PAGE 41 36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 42 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued This is an ongoing process which accords with the guidance in the Turnbull report, involving Internal Audit the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Company.
The internal audit function visits every Division at least once in every financial year and Key systems of the internal control system, which have been in place during the whole of the reviews performance of the Division across a range of financial and non-financial period under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, are:- requirements, reporting findings to the relevant senior managers and direct to Board of Directors the Audit Committee.
The Board takes a proactive approach to the management of all forms of risk, and views risk The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control management as a vital constituent of its role.
The Board holds five scheduled meetings a year.
covering all material controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk At each of these meetings the effectiveness of the controls relating to the most significant risks management systems, during the period under review.
i. e. those which may restrict the Companys ability to meet its objectives are monitored and reviewed.
Remedial action is determined where appropriate.
For some key risks, where it is felt necessary, specialist advice is sought from external agencies and professional advisers.
The Board also reviews, at least annually, the level and scope of insurance cover maintained within the business.
The Board receives regular reports from Management on significant changes in the business and external environment which might affect the risk profile.
It has also set in place a system of regular hierarchical reporting which provides for relevant details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks to be given to it.
Management Board The Management Board, answerable directly to the Managing Director, is responsible for implementing decisions of the Main Board and providing protection against the major risks by various techniques, including sharing best practice, monitoring, supervision and training.
Risk Committee A Risk Committee, consisting of the heads of each management function within the business including Health and Safety, Food Safety, Personnel, Production and Purchasing, has responsibility for analysing, assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys risk environment, as well as devising a sound risk management strategy for review and approval by the Board.
The Risk Committee reports it findings and important changes to the Board on a regular basis through personal presentation, narrative reports and key performance indicators internal and external to the organisation.
The Risk Committee also feeds the results of its assessments back into the business planning for each division at least annually.
The risks are assessed on a regular basis across all functional areas but, in particular, the areas of Food Safety, Health and Safety, information flow, asset protection and Regulatory Requirements.
Policies and Procedures Policies and procedures, covering control issues across appropriate aspects of the business, are defined and communicated to the respective managers and staff at all levels.
Adherence is monitored and reported upon on an ongoing basis.
Health and Safety The Company is committed to improving continuously the working environment with the objective that accidents and work related ill health should be progressively reduced.
An occupational health strategy has been produced with Health and Safety Officers and Occupational Nurses appointed in every Division.
Targets are set and programmes are devised to implement them.
This approach involves a rigorous health assessment, during which hazards are identified, risks assessed, control measures applied and improvement actions agreed to manage residual risks to an acceptable level.
Financial Reporting The Company operates a comprehensive financial control system that incorporates Divisional Financial Controllers who have responsibility for financial management within each Division.
Each Divisional Financial Controller works closely with their respective Divisional Managing Director to monitor performance at Divisional Board level as against planned and prior year comparatives.
In addition, assets and liabilities are scrutinised at several levels on a regular basis and remedial action taken where required.
A comprehensive annual planning process is carried out which determines expected levels of performance for all aspects of the business.
Each Divisional Financial Controller also reports directly to the Finance Director.
