The Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its Corporate governance responsibilities in relation to the audit, the auditors, financial reporting, internal control procedures and going concern.
RJ Palmer and JH Trafford were members of this Committee until they resigned as Directors of the Company.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, RM Bernard, who also chairs this Committee, and two non-executive directors.
The Committee principally Statement of appliance of the Principles provides advice and recommendations to the Board and in the Combined Code the Chairman on the constitution of and appointments The following narrative sets out how the Group has to the Board.
applied the Principles in the Combined Code the Code and the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Re-election of directors on the Combined Code.
The Companys Articles require all directors to be re-elected at least every three years, in accordance with the Code.
The Board The Articles require that a director appointed by the Board The Board meets regularly during the year and special must be elected by the shareholders at the Annual General meetings are convened as and when matters require Meeting following appointment.
This is in accordance with urgent consideration.
A formal schedule of matters the Code.
specifically reserved to the Board for decision is in place and is reviewed and periodically updated.
The schedule Directors remuneration is compiled so as to ensure that the Board maintains full The policy relating to and information on directors control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, remuneration is included within the Report of the Board organisational and compliance issues.
The regular business on Directors Remuneration on pages 24 to 29. at each meeting consists of an executive report from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Directors receive Relations with shareholders Board information five days prior to the day of each There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, Board meeting.
including meetings with the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
In addition there are presentations of The directors are identified on page 19.
The Board the annual and interim results and other topics.
considers that three of the six non-executive directors are independent of management and free from any business A trading statement is issued at each Annual General and other relationship that could materially interfere with Meeting.
All directors generally attend the Annual General the exercise of their independent judgement.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the the resignation of RJ Palmer, the Board has not appointed Annual General Meeting, which are to be included in this a new senior independent non-executive director although document together with the Annual Report, are set out on this is being kept under review.
The non-executive directors pages 58 to 60. bring a balance and diversity of skills and experience to the Board.
Internal control The Board has implemented the guidance Internal Control: There is a clear designation of positions and responsibilities Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and the between the role of Chairman, held by RM Bernard and following sets out how the Group has applied the principles that of Chief Executive, held by JPE Taylor.
The Chairman and complied with the provisions.
These processes have is responsible for running the Board, the Chief Executive been in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 is responsible for running the business of the Group.
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 30.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to maintain Board Committees a sound system of internal control and to review its Each Board Committee has written terms of reference effectiveness to safeguard shareholders investments and approved by the Board.
Members of the Remuneration, the Groups assets.
As new procedures and working Audit and Nomination Committees are shown on page 19. practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into systems.
Any residual risk The Remuneration Committee comprises three nonis then considered for acceptability.
The internal control executive directors and is chaired by RN Gilbert.
The board systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the approves the remuneration of directors and other senior risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only executives, following recommendations from the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Remuneration Committee.
In accordance with the Code material misstatement or loss.
RN Gilbert and Sir Peter Michael are not deemed to be independent by the Board.
However the Board believes The Group has a control environment with policies, that their expertise and knowledge in this area are processes and codes of conduct, which are designed to valuable and that their membership and, in the case identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced of RN Gilbert, his Chairmanship are in the best interests of by the Group, which is regularly reviewed and accords with the Company.
RJ Palmer was a member of the Committee the guidance, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on until his resignation as a Director of the Company.
Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors and is chaired by SJ Pirie.
Two of the three members of the Audit Committee are deemed to be independent.
GWR Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2003 22 A key feature of the control environment is the Going concern constitution and role of the Board and the committee After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable structure established to manage the business.
The principal expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Board Committees are the Remuneration, Audit and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Nomination Committees.
For this reason, the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the accounts.
The Chairman chairs a Group Executive Board that consists of the six executive directors.
The Group Executive Statement of compliance with the Code Board concentrates on Group strategy and controls the Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 the Company development of divisional strategy, business plans and the has been in compliance with the Code Provisions set out in monitoring of progress against key performance indicators, Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the annual budget and long-term business plan.
This issued by the UK Listing Authority, except for the following structure also provides the forum for establishing the areas which are either detailed above or within the Boards Boards requirements on internal control and monitoring Remuneration report on pages 24 to 29. the effectiveness of the management of significant risks in business units across the Group.
The following areas of non-compliance relate to different periods during the year ended 31 March 2003 The Groups UK operational businesses are managed through four divisions: Local Radio, Classic FM, Digital 1 A.
Until the resignation of RJ Palmer on 1 August Radio Multiplex Operations and Support Services.
In 2002, only five of the ten non-executive directors were addition, the Group has Head Office and Digital independent.
Following RJ Palmers resignation, until Developmental divisions.
Opus, GWRs sales division, 31 December 2002, five of the nine non-executive now generates all the Groups UK sales, and Creation directors were independent.
Following the resignation GWRs content division provides programming to the of NS Tresilian, CE Blackwell and JH Trafford on Groups UK local radio stations.
Heads of each division 31 December 2002, until 30 January 2003, only two and the Executive Directors combine to form the Group of the six non-executive directors were independent.
The Group Management Board Following the appointment of M Barnes on 30 January meets at least monthly to manage the Groups operations.
2003 until 31 March 2003, three of the six non-executive directors were independent.
Following last years acceptance as a member of Good Corporation, the Group has undergone a detailed 2 A.
After 1 August 2002, when RJ Palmer resigned verification of its operation and has been accredited from the Board, the Company had no senior to the Good Corporation Charter.
During the year the Head of Risk Management has The following areas of non-compliance were for the whole reported regularly to the Audit Committee on risk of the year ended 31 March 2003: management and internal controls.
The Audit Committee has examined in detail the reports by the Head of Risk 3 B.
The Chairman, RM Bernard and the Chief Executive, Management, which include a review of the formal process JPE Taylor both currently have two-year contracts.
of risk assessment and self-certification carried out by divisional management in accordance with the Groups Risk 4 B.
The Deputy Chairman, RN Gilbert, and Management policy.
This process evaluates the potential Sir Peter Michael, neither of whom are deemed to financial impact of all significant risks including financial, be independent directors, were members of, and operational and compliance risks.
No shortcomings RN Gilbert chaired, the Remuneration Committee.
material to the Group have been identified.
GWR Group plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2003 23 With that in mind, our policy is to attract and motivate Report of the Board on talented people by: directors remuneration to the Setting guaranteed remuneration i. e. salaries, pension members of GWR Group plc contributions and other benefits at the levels competitive in the market for which the Executive is expected to perform to a high standard.
Providing annual and long term incentive arrangements designed to enable Executives to achieve significant This report sets out how the Company has applied the rewards through excellent or outstanding growth in principles of good governance set out in the Combined the Companys earnings.
Code in relation to directors remuneration and explains any area of non-compliance.
The Company structures remuneration packages appropriate to the particular function and level of In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, responsibility of each individual executive designed to the Remuneration Committee has followed the provisions attract, retain and motivate the individual.
It takes into in Schedule A to the Combined Code.
In preparing this account the remuneration structures and levels at other report the Board has followed the provisions in Schedule B companies, in particular in the media sector.
to the Combined Code and The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Committee carefully reviews the balance of performance and non-performance related elements of remuneration The information that has been audited in this report and aims to ensure that a significant proportion of total comprises the directors emoluments table, the share remuneration is performance-related.
The Remuneration options table and the pensions disclosure.
Committee is made aware of pay conditions around the Group when it is considering salaries.
The principal This report will be put to an advisory vote of the elements of remuneration comprise a basic salary, benefits, Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting pension, an annual performance based incentive payment on 31 July 2003. and share options.
In addition the Board is requesting, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the approval by Directors remuneration shareholders of a new long-term incentive plan.
For more The Board approves the remuneration of directors and details of this see page 28 of this report and the Annual other senior executives, following recommendations from General Meeting Notice on page 58. the Remuneration Committee.
Directors who were members of the Remuneration Committee during the year being all Basic salary is paid monthly and assessed annually.
It is non-executive, were as follows: fixed following a review of specific Group and industry related factors, with a reference to the salaries in our RN Gilbert Chairman comparator group.
Sir Peter Michael appointed 19 September 2002 RJ Palmer resigned 1 August 2002 Executive directors annual incentives are based on the SJ Pirie achievement of a profit before tax and goodwill amortisation target, details of which are given below.
During the year the Committee appointed, and has been advised by, independent remuneration consultants Monks Longer-term incentives for executive directors are currently Partnership on the selection of comparator companies, provided through the grant of share options, which are market pay guidelines for main board posts and other also linked to the performance of the Group, details of senior management posts within the Group and annual which are given below.
bonus and long-term incentive practice within comparator companies.
In addition, the Committee consults with the The proposed new long-term incentive plan is an Equity Groups Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, the Human Participation Plan requiring the commitment of senior Resources Director and the Group Finance Director, who is executives to maintain significant shareholdings in the Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has concluded that such co-investment by senior executives Remuneration policy will encourage alignment of their interests with those of Directors remuneration has been the subject of much shareholders, as well as providing an effective long-term adverse comment recently, particularly the payment of share incentive.
high bonuses at a time of falling shareholder returns.
In contrast, the Executive Directors of GWR have consistently Benefits mainly comprise the provision of company cars or shown a responsible attitude to the interests of shareholders a cash alternative, private fuel and medical health cover.
There are many instances of this but one in particular exemplifies the Executives attitude and is worth Pension payments are based on a percentage of basic salary.
In Spring 2001 the executive team became entitled to substantial bonus payments as a result of Non-executive directors are remunerated by fees payable in delivering a strong financial performance in the previous cash.
Additional fees are payable for attendance at and the year.
Because economic conditions were deteriorating and chairing of Committee meetings and for the role of Deputy the GWR share price had fallen markedly, the five executive Chairman.
Non-executive directors do not participate in directors decided to waive 75% of their bonus payments.
any short or long-term incentive schemes.
This saved shareholders almost half a million pounds.
Information on directors service contracts is given The Board believes that shareholders interests are best on page 29. served by the rewards of Executive Directors being significantly related to growth in shareholder value and that in the long term this can only be achieved through earnings growth.
GWR Group plc Report of the Board on directors Annual report and accounts 2003 remuneration to the members of 24 GWR Group plc Directors emoluments Emoluments detailed below are for each person who served as a director during the year ended 31 March 2003: Director Note Salary Annual Benefits Compensation Total Total Pensions and incentive for loss of year ended year ended year ended fees office 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 31 March 2003 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive RM Bernard 400 9 409 402 100 JPE Taylor 437 16 453 423 R Lewis 300 14 314 342 75 S Orchard 250 13 263 274 62 W Pallot 150 12 162 75 22 SC Ward 212 15 227 225 53 Non-executive RN Gilbert 4 31 31 21 RJ Palmer 1 8 10 18 26 M Barnes 2 3 3 CE Blackwell 1 13 12 25 17 S Duffy 24 24 17 Sir Peter Michael 4 18 18 12 SJ Pirie 27 27 21 JH Trafford 1 16 13 29 18 NS Tresilian 1 19 4 13 36 22 JP Williams 4 20 20 14 Total 1,928 83 48 2,059 1,909 312 Notes 1Following a reorganisation of the Companys Board, RJ Palmer resigned from the Board on 1 August 2002.
CE Blackwell, JH Trafford and NS Tresilian resigned from the Board on 31 December 2002.
The above payments for compensation for loss of office are in accordance with the respective directors contract.
In addition RJ Palmer will continue as Chairman of a GWR subsidiary local advisory board, for which he will receive 2,000 per annum.
He received 1,500 in respect of these services from when he resigned from the Company Board up to 31 March 2003.
CE Blackwell will continue as Chairman of a GWR subsidiary local advisory board, for which he will receive 2,000 per annum.
He received 500 in respect of these services from when he resigned from the Company Board up to 31 March 2003.
Additionally, CE Blackwell has entered into a consultancy agreement with the Company to provide services.
The consultancy agreement will expire on 31 October 2003, unless continued by mutual consent.
The fees payable under the consultancy agreement are 10,000 per annum.
In the period from 1 January 2003 until 31 March 2003, CE Blackwell received consultancy fees of 2,500.
J Trafford continued to be Chairman and director respectively of two of GWRs local advisory boards until 31 March 2003 for which he received 750.
Following his resignation from the Company Board on 31 December 2002, NS Tresilian has continued to provide services under a consultancy agreement.
The agreement will expire on 31 January 2004 unless continued by mutual consent.
The fees payable under the consultancy agreement are 12,000 per annum.
In the period from 1 January 2003 until 31 March 2003, NS Tresilian received consultancy fees of 3,000.
2M Barnes was appointed to the Board on 30 January 2003.
3HPJ Meakin, who resigned from the Board on 26 July 2001, has a consultancy agreement with the Company at a fee of 25,000 per annum, which is contracted to run until 26 July 2003.
4 RN Gilbert, JP Williams and Sir Peter Michael had all their fees paid directly to third party companies.
5 There were no gains made on the exercise of share options during the year 2002: nil.
Further information on directors emoluments is given in note 6 to these accounts.
GWR Group plc Report of the Board on directors Annual report and accounts 2003 remuneration to the members of 25 GWR Group plc a 1985 Executive Share Option Scheme Report of the Board on The GWR Group plc 1985 Executive Share Option Scheme closed in 1995.
At 31 March 2003, options were held to directors remuneration to the subscribe for 62,661 shares at a price of 120.106p per share members of GWR Group plc exercisable by 2003. continued b 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme Options may be granted to any eligible employee under the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme at the discretion Annual incentive of the Remuneration Committee.
Options are priced at not All executive directors are in the same annual incentive less than the greater of the nominal value and the market scheme, which provides that payments will be made if the value of a share.
The Remuneration Committee is Groups profit before taxation and goodwill amortisation responsible for setting performance targets and share exceeds a specified target.
This target is proposed by the capital limits.
Options are exercisable between three and Chief Executive and approved by the Remuneration ten years from the date of grant, assuming that the Committee.
The upper limit on the executive directors relevant performance criteria have been met.
At 31 March annual incentive payments is 100% of basic salary for RM 2003 options were held to subscribe for 559,107 shares Bernard and JPE Taylor and 75% of basic salary for the under this scheme at prices ranging between 179.5p other executive directors.
No payments under this scheme and 858p per share exercisable by 2012. were accrued for the year ended 31 March 2003. c 1995 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme The Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion The GWR Group plc 1995 Savings-Related Share Option to award annual bonuses to individuals in exceptional Scheme is available to employees who have been in circumstances.
continuous service for a minimum of three months.
Options are priced at not less than the greater of the Pensions nominal value and 80% of the market value of a share.
The Company provides pension entitlements based on basic At 31 March 2003 options were held to subscribe for salary to executive directors that are defined contribution 477,440 shares under this scheme at prices ranging in nature.
The pension values in the table on page 25 are between 229p and 637.5p per share exercisable by 2005. contributions payable by the Company for the year ended This scheme has no performance criteria.
RM Bernard, S Orchard, R Lewis and SC Ward have a pension entitlement of 25% of basic salary.
d 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme W Pallot has an entitlement of 15% of basic salary.
Options may be granted to any eligible employee under JPE Taylor is not in pensionable employment.
the 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Options are priced at not The GWR Group Pension Scheme the Scheme is open less than the greater of the nominal value and the market to all Group employees over the age of 18 following three value of a share.
The rules of this Scheme provide that months of service with the Group.
Until 5 April 2001 the grants of up to 1.5 times annual salary may be made each Scheme was contracted-out of the State Earnings Related year, or such higher limit not exceeding 3 times annual Pension Scheme SERPS with a normal retirement age of salary as the Remuneration Committee may approve 60 and benefits based on the contributions paid in for each having taken into account market practice, role and individual member.
The Scheme re-entered SERPS with responsibility, or because it considers the circumstances effect from 6 April 2001. of the grant to be exceptional.
Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant, Share Incentive Schemes assuming that the relevant performance criteria have been The directors strongly believe in encouraging employees met.
At 31 March 2003 5,123,613 options had been granted to participate in share schemes, thereby aligning their under this Scheme at prices ranging between 179.5p and interests with those of the shareholders.
Share Options Executive directors are eligible employees under the Companys executive share option schemes and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The policy on share options is to grant such incentives to those executives who can make the most significant contribution to the profit performance of the Company.
Options issued under the executive share option schemes that are subsisting may be exercised only if certain performance criteria are satisfied.
Executive share options are never offered at a discount.
GWR Group plc Report of the Board on directors Annual report and accounts 2003 remuneration to the members of 26 GWR Group plc e Details of shares under option held by directors are set out below: Directors Number of shares under option Exercise Expiry Earliest price date exercise date At 1.4.
05 428,207 5,941 434,148 Notes 1These options were granted under the 1995 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
All other options above were granted under the 1995 or 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme.
The 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme is Inland Revenue approved, the 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme is unapproved.
2All the directors detailed above are executive.
3 No options were exercised by any director during the year.
4The market price of the shares at 31 March 2003 was 141.5p.
The range during the year ended 31 March 2003 was from 123.5p to 289.5p.
5 Options issued above under the Executive Share Option Schemes that have lapsed during the year did so as the relevant performance criteria were not achieved.
6Directors holdings in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 20.
GWR Group plc Report of the Board on directors Annual report and accounts 2003 remuneration to the members of 27 GWR Group plc All share options granted in July 2002 under the 1995 and Report of the Board on 1996 Executive Share Option Schemes shall vest at the third anniversary of the date of the grant on a sliding scale basis, directors remuneration to the depending on the growth of the Headline earnings per members of GWR Group plc share as measured against target growth rates when compared to a base earnings per share figure of 9 pence.
continued No options will vest until a compound growth rate of 12% per annum in earnings per share is exceeded over the three-year period.
At the highest-level earnings per share f Performance criteria for 1995 and 1996 Executive compound growth of 20% per annum over the three-year Share Option Schemes period generates a 100% vesting percentage level.
The exercise of the above options is subject to the achievement of performance conditions as follows: In each of the above cases earnings per share will be measured as that disclosed as Headline earnings per share Share options granted up to July 2001 under the 1995 and in the Companys Annual Report based on the definition 1996 Executive Share Option Schemes to executive directors of Headline earnings per share provided by the UK Society shall vest at the third anniversary of the date of the grant of Investment Professionals formerly the Institute of on a sliding scale basis, depending on the growth of Investment Management and Research.
This measure the Headline earnings per share above RPI as measured is used because it is a recognised definition that enables against target growth rates when compared to a base easy comparisons to other companies.
earnings per share figure determined at the date of grant.
An earnings per share compound growth of 5% per annum Equity Participation Plan above RPI generates a 25% vesting percentage level.
The directors wish to encourage the senior executives to At the highest level, earnings per share compound growth commit themselves to the long-term development of the of 17.5% per annum above RPI generates a 100% vesting Company through an Equity Participation Plan.
The base earnings per share figures used for this Plan is requested at the forthcoming Annual were as follows: General Meeting.
Executives taking part in the Plan will be awarded an opportunity to acquire, over a period of up to Financial year of grant Base EPS in pence three years, a significant shareholding in the Company and to hold those shares for a minimum period of 5 years from 1996 97 5.8 1998 99 11.0 the date of award.
At the end of that period, if the profit 2000 01 12.9 before taxation and amortisation PBTA exceeds a minimum target, the Company will give shares to the executive in a defined proportion to his shareholding The only exception to the above was the base earnings per under the Plan.
The PBTA measure is proposed because share used for the options granted to R Lewis on 12.11.98, improving the Companys profit levels after the recent which was 8.2p.
difficult trading period is a key priority.
The number of shares given will increase in proportion to the amount Share options granted in August 2001 under the 1995 and by which the profit exceeds the target up to a defined 1996 Executive Share Option Schemes to executive directors maximum in the case of exceptional performance.
shall also vest according to a straight line sliding scale based Further details of the terms of the new Plan are set out on the growth of the Headline earnings per share as in the notes to the Annual General Meeting Notice, measured against target real growth rates when compared which are to be included in this document together to a base earnings per share of 12.7 pence.
An earnings per with the Annual Report, on pages 59 and 60. share compound growth of 5% per annum above RPI generates a 25% vesting percentage level.
At the highest level, earnings per share compound growth of 17.5% per annum above RPI generates a 100% vesting percentage level.
Options vest in different proportions based on growth in headline earnings per share in the three years to 31 March 2006 as follows: Year to Year to Year to Director 31.3.
06 RM Bernard 33% 33% 33% JPE Taylor 50% 35% 15% R Lewis 50% 50% S Orchard 33% 33% 33% W Pallot 100% SC Ward 100% To the extent they do not vest in the first earnings period tested, the vesting period may be extended by one year and tested at the end of that next year based on the longer earnings period.
No earnings period may exceed five years.
GWR Group plc Report of the Board on directors Annual report and accounts 2003 remuneration to the members of 28 GWR Group plc Total shareholder return The date of executive director contracts is shown below: The following graph charts the total shareholder return TSR on a holding of shares in the Company for the five RM Bernard 21 March 1997 years from 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2003, compared with JPE Taylor 16 September 1996 the average total shareholder return of companies in R Lewis 27 May 1999 the FTSE Media and Photography and FTSE 350 indices.
S Orchard 17 July 1992 The FTSE Media and Photography index was chosen as a W Pallot 31 March 2003 comparator index because it includes the Companys closest SC Ward 17 July 1992 competitors, the FTSE 350 index was chosen because it is a relevant broad equity market index.
The majority of non-executive directors have contracts for a fixed term of one year, renewable annually at the invitation of the Board.
Details are given on page 25 of GWR Group 700 payments made to former directors of the Company by 600 way of compensation for loss of office following the FTSE 350 500 reorganisation of the Board earlier in the year.
FTSE Media & 400 Entertainment External appointments 300 The Remuneration Committee must approve all 200 appointments of executive directors to external company 100 boards.
Fees receivable by the executive as a director of any 0 company outside the Group, in which he or she holds office Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr as nominee or representative of GWR Group plc are 98 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 generally payable to the Group and not to the individual director.
In limited situations a director may be entitled to Service contracts retain his fees.
RM Bernard and JPE Taylor currently have service contracts with unexpired rolling terms of two years and a notice Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by period by either party of two years.
RM Bernard has proposed that the notice period for his contract be reduced to a rolling notice period of one year as from 1 April 2004, RN Gilbert except on a change of control that is not recommended by Director the Board, in which case notice will remain at two years.
All the other executive directors have service contracts with unexpired rolling terms of one year and a notice period by either party of one year.
Contracts for RM Bernard, JPE Taylor, R Lewis and W Pallot provide that on a change of control as a result of which within six months the executive is dismissed or treats himself as being dismissed as a result of any repudiation by the Company of his contract, compensation is payable for the unexpired portion of his notice period.
These contracts also provide that in the event of a change of control that is not recommended by the Board, the executive can, within six months of that change of control, choose to terminate his employment by giving not less than 30 days notice and receive compensation for the unexpired portion of his notice period.
GWR Group plc Report of the Board on directors Annual report and accounts 2003 remuneration to the members of 29 GWR Group plc TSR rebased to 100 on 1 4 98
