Board report on corporate governance Combined Code The senior independent non-executive the procedures by which Directors are The Directors are committed to the Director is Ken Clarke.
The role has terms given and can obtain information, highest standards of corporate governance, of reference that include the provision training and independent advice: corporate responsibility and risk that he is available to shareholders if they the procedures for the provision of management in directing and controlling have a concern for which contact through notices, agendas, papers and minutes the Group.
The Company throughout the the normal channels of Chairman or for meetings of the Board and Board year complied with the provisions of Chief Executive is inappropriate or which committees: and Section 1 of the Combined Code on such contact has failed to resolve.
how meetings of the Board and Corporate Governance issued by the The senior independent non-executive Board committees are conducted.
UK Financial Services Authority which Director periodically holds meetings applied to this period.
with the other non-executive Directors The Board is collectively responsible for outside the presence of executive Directors.
promoting the success of the Group by The Directors have agreed action that will directing and supervising the Groups raise the level of compliance in 2004 with At each AGM, at least one-third of the affairs.
There is a schedule of matters the revised Combined Code on Corporate Directors and any Director who has served reserved for approval by the Board, which Governance issued by the UK Financial for more than three years without being ensures that it takes all major strategy, Services Authority on 23 July 2003, which proposed for re-election at an AGM retire policy and investment decisions affecting applies for reporting years beginning on or by rotation and seek re-election.
This schedule is reviewed after 1 November 2003.
The way in which annually and includes specic matters the principles of good corporate governance The Board does not have a majority of under the categories of legal, stock are applied, along with comment and independent non-executive Directors, as exchange, strategic management control, explanation relating to significant extra required by the revised Combined Code: Board membership, Board committees, disclosures under the revised Combined steps have been taken to address this by capital and revenue commitments, Code, are described below.
the appointment of two additional nancing, advisers and employees.
independent non-executive Directors in At each scheduled meeting, the Board The Board 2003.
The balance between independent receives a report on current trading and The Board comprises a non-executive and non-independent Directors will further major business issues and annually agrees Chairman whom the Board considers to change when Claude Berretti retires at the the operating plan for the following be non-independent, an independent conclusion of the AGM.
The Board delegates day non-executive Deputy Chairman, a Chief appointments have also broadened the to day management of the Group to Executive, five other executive Directors pool of independent non-executive Directors the executive committee.
and seven other non-executive Directors, who can serve on committees, such that five of whom the Board considers to be undue reliance is not placed on particular The Company Secretary attends all meetings independent.
Biographical details of the individuals.
It is considered that the of the Board and of Board committees Directors are shown on pages 28 and 29. composition of the Board has the balance and all Directors have access to his advice of skills and experience appropriate for and services.
The appointment and removal There is a division of responsibility between the requirements of the business and that of the Company Secretary is a matter the Chairman, Jeff Harris, who is responsible no small group of individuals can dominate reserved for the Board.
In July 2003 for the effective operation of the Board the Boards decision making.
Marco Pagni was appointed General and the Chief Executive, Stefano Pessina, Counsel and Company Secretary, replacing who is responsible for the performance of Operation of the Board Adrian Goodenough who had served the Groups businesses.
The Chairman and The Directors met nine times as a Board in as Company Secretary since 1990.
Chief Executive each have terms of 2003 and are scheduled to meet at least reference that include provision that they eight times in 2004.
Additional meetings During the year the Board undertook a must ensure there is agreement between are held as required.
The attendance formal and rigorous evaluation of its own them on the division of responsibilities.
record for the Board meetings held in performance including that of the Board 2003, as required by the revised committees.
This evaluation was carried Jeff Harris was appointed Chairman in Combined Code, is shown below.
out by an independent rm of management September 2001.
In April 2003 he retired consultants.
as a full time executive, continuing as The Board has adopted principles of good Chairman in a non-executive capacity.
These principles ensure Board committees joined the Group in 1985, was appointed that the Directors can perform their role The Board has delegated specic to the Board in 1986 and held the position effectively and are given the means and responsibilities to four Board committees.
of Chief Executive from 1992 to 2001. information necessary for them to make The attendance record, as required by the The Directors are of the opinion that his informed decisions.
The principles include revised Combined Code, membership of extensive industry and business specic details of: these Board committees and a summary knowledge and experience, gained during of their main duties under their terms 17 years as an executive Director, are the legal responsibilities of Directors: of reference are shown below.
extremely beneficial to the Board and that the role and appointment of his ongoing chairmanship provides valuable non-executive Directors: continuity to develop the business in the best interests of shareholders and customers.
34 Alliance UniChem Plc Meeting attendance record Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings in 2003 9 16 4 3 6 Director J. F. Harris 9 5 K. H. Clarke 9 3 5 S. Pessina 9 16 5 G. I. Cooper 9 16 G. R. Fairweather 9 16 O. Barra 9 16 1 P. Utnegaard 4 6 2 S. W. J. Duncan 8 16 3 C. Etherington 2 3 N. E. Cross 9 4 3 6 4 A. W. Loader 1 P. Ponsolle 8 4 3 4 P. Scaroni 5 1 5 M. Stach C. J. S. Berretti 6 E. Jornod 5 1 appointed to the Board in September 2003: four Board meetings and six executive committee meetings were held after his appointment 2 appointed to the Board in January 2003: eight Board meetings and 16 executive committee meetings were held after his appointment 3 resigned from the Board in March 2003 4 appointed to the Board and audit committee in September 2003: three Board meetings were held after his appointment but no audit committee meetings: appointed to the remuneration committee in February 2004 5 appointed to the Board in December 2003: no Board meetings were held after his appointment: appointed to the audit committee in February 2004 Executive committee The duties of the audit committee are to: oversee the process for dealing with The executive committee, chaired by complaints received by the Group Geoff Cooper, consists of the executive consider the appointment, regarding accounting, internal Directors.
The executive committee met re-appointment and or removal of accounting controls or auditing matters 16 times in 2003. the external auditor: and the condential, anonymous consider any change to, independence submission by employees of concerns The duties of the executive committee of, objectivity of and fees to the regarding questionable accounting are to: external auditors: or auditing matters: consider the effectiveness of the external review the effectiveness of systems run the Group on a day to day basis: audit process taking into consideration for internal financial control, financial implement decisions of the Board: relevant UK professional and regulatory reporting and risk management: attend to all matters not reserved for requirements: monitor, review and challenge where approval by the Board or delegated by maintain and monitor a policy on the necessary the integrity of financial the Board to other Board committees: and engagement of the external auditor statements and formal announcements attend to all matters delegated to it.
to supply non-audit services: relating to the financial performance agree with the external auditors the of the Group: Audit committee scope and nature of their audit, review review the consistency of accounting The audit committee consists of five their quality control procedures, ensure policies: independent non-executive Directors: coordination of audits, review their monitor compliance with the Groups Neil Cross Chairman, Adrian Loader, management letter and managements borrowing limits: and Patrick Ponsolle, Paolo Scaroni and response and discuss any issues arising monitor compliance with the principles Manfred Stach.
Others normally attending from their audit: of good boardroom practice.
meetings in advisory capacities are the review the programme, resourcing, Group Finance Director, the Director of effectiveness and results of the internal Internal Audit, the Group Financial audit function and approve any change Controller, the General Counsel and to the Director of Internal Audit: Company Secretary and representatives from the external auditors.
The committee met four times in 2003.
Alliance UniChem Plc 35 Board report on corporate governance continued The Group has a policy of not awarding ensure that payments made on management consultancy assignments to termination of employment of executive the external auditors except where they Directors are fair to both parties: have specic knowledge not available to execute standard service contracts others.
The Group has a preference to with executive Directors: use its external auditors for certain due recommend any changes in terms diligence assignments on potential and conditions of employment of acquisitions where their knowledge of executive Directors: the industry can provide insights useful in approve the annual Board report assessing the target company and its t on remuneration: with the Group.
Tax related work is shared agree the policy on authorising expenses between a small number of selected rms, from the Chairman and from the Chief including the Groups external auditors.
Executive: and The Groups principal external auditors grant options under and agree will audit all major subsidiaries with amendments to the rules of the effect from 2004. discretionary share option schemes.
In accordance with the above duties, The Board report on remuneration particular areas of focus of the audit provides details on how the committee committee during 2003 included: exercises these duties.
a review of the Internal Audit function: Nomination committee the appointment of a new Director of The nomination committee consists of five Internal Audit: Directors, three of whom are independent the implementation by January 2004 non-executives: Ken Clarke Chairman, of a policy to ensure that the principal Jeff Harris, Stefano Pessina, Neil Cross external auditors audit all major and Patrick Ponsolle.
The nomination subsidiaries: committee met six times in 2003. agreement of a policy for the approval of non-audit services provided by The principal duties of the nomination external auditors: committee are to: a review of post-investment audits: and the implementation of an effective system review regularly the structure, size and for dealing with complaints received by composition of the Board: the Group regarding accounting, internal identify and nominate candidates to ll accounting controls or auditing matters vacancies on the Board: and the condential, anonymous review annually the time required from submission by employees of concerns non-executive Directors and evaluate regarding questionable accounting whether each non-executive Director is or auditing matters.
spending sufficient time to full his duties: ensure succession plans are in place for Remuneration committee Directors and, in particular, for the The remuneration committee consists of Chairman and Chief Executive: four independent non-executive Directors: recommend the re-appointment of Ken Clarke Chairman, Neil Cross, Directors taking into account the Adrian Loader and Patrick Ponsolle.
evaluation of individual performance: and Jeff Harris and Stefano Pessina attend recommend candidates for senior meetings in advisory capacities but are Board positions.
not present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The remuneration committee Appointments to the Board are made met three times in 2003. on merit and against objective criteria, taking into account the balance of skills, The duties of the remuneration committee knowledge and experience required.
are to: External search consultants are used to recruit executive and non-executive determine the Groups remuneration Directors.
The non-executive Directors policy for executive Directors and confirm that they have sufficient time executive management: available to devote to their role.
determine the remuneration for the Chairman and the executive Directors: 36 Alliance UniChem Plc A rigorous, wide-ranging review process Internal controls dispensing and professional pharmacy was undertaken for the selection and The Board has overall responsibility for the protocols: appointment of the two additional nonGroups system of internal control and for procedures for security and specialist executive Directors and the appointment reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of handling of certain drug classes: of the Wholesale Director during the year, internal control is designed to manage, a rolling programme of surveys by in recognition of the need to refresh the rather than eliminate, the risk of failure the Groups insurance brokers to membership of the Board and to broaden to achieve business objectives and can advise on physical risks: further the level of international experience.
provide only reasonable, and not absolute, centralised treasury operations operating assurances against material misstatement within dened limits and subject to Investor relations or loss.
The Board considers risk assessment regular reporting requirements: The Company values its interaction with and control to be fundamental to achieving an effective internal audit function both private and institutional investors.
its corporate objectives within an acceptable providing independent scrutiny of Institutional shareholders, fund managers risk reward prole and confirms that there internal control systems and risk and analysts are kept informed of the is an ongoing process for identifying and management procedures: overall strategy of the Group through combating significant risks in the Group regular monitoring of risks and control regular meetings and presentations.
The effectiveness of the internal systems throughout the year by control system is reviewed annually by the operating businesses: and The AGM is seen as the main opportunity audit committee on behalf of the Board a self-certication process, whereby for private investors to communicate with and throughout 2003 and up until the operating businesses are required to the Directors face to face.
To facilitate this: date of this report accords with the Turnbull confirm in writing that the system of internal control guidance for directors as internal control is operating effectively.
notices convening AGMs are sent to required by the Combined Code.
shareholders at least 20 working days before a meeting: Key elements of the Groups system of the document containing the notice internal controls are as follows: of the relevant AGM will include a commentary on the business of the regular Board meetings with a formal meeting and notes to help shareholders schedule of matters reserved by the exercise their rights at the meeting: Board for decision: all shareholders, whether they can Board approval of business strategies, attend an AGM or not, are encouraged medium term business plans and annual to ask questions: and operating plans: it is the intention of all Directors to an annual risk review by the audit be present at AGMs.
committee, based on a detailed selfassessment by management of all The senior independent Director took steps business risks in terms of impact, to arrange to meet and understand the likelihood and control strength: views of major shareholders.
clearly dened organisational structures and appropriate delegated authorities Financial reporting and going concern for the Groups businesses: The Directors have acknowledged their monthly review by the executive responsibilities in relation to the financial committee of key performance statements in the Directors responsibilities indicators to assess progress towards statement.
The Directors are also responsible objectives, action being taken as for the publication of unaudited interim required: reports of the Group that provide balanced continuous monitoring of regulatory and understandable assessments of the developments: Groups financial position for the first procedures for planning, approving and six months of each accounting period.
monitoring business acquisitions, The same standards are applied to other divestments and capital expenditure price sensitive public reports and reports to projects, supplemented by postregulators, as well as information provided investment performance reviews: to satisfy statutory requirements.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the near future and therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
