Directors reports Corporate governance The remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service of Introduction the Executive and Non-Executive Directors appear in the Directors The Directors of Allied Domecq PLC are committed to the high Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51.
Allied Domecq PLC is in standards of corporate governance set out in the Principles of compliance with Schedules A and B of the Combined Code Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, which together relating to remuneration.
comprise the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Directors are accountable to Organisation and functions of the Board the shareholders for ensuring that these principles are understood and key Board Committees and implemented throughout the Companys operations and this The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy, statement describes the manner in which Allied Domecq PLC performance and management of Allied Domecq PLC.
It is has applied the Principles and Provisions of the Code during the currently comprised of four Executive Directors and five financial year.
In July 2003, a New Combined Code was issued independent Non-Executive Directors including the independent by the Financial Reporting Council in response to the Higgs Chairman.
Throughout the financial year, the roles of Chairman Review on Non-Executive Directors and the Smith Review on and Chief Executive Officer have been held separately.
The Directors support the spirit of the New The Board and its Committees have formal terms of reference Combined Code and comply with the majority of its provisions.
setting out their authorities and duties.
They are not required to report on their compliance with the New Combined Code until they report to shareholders in respect of All Board members have access to the advice and services of the financial year ending 31 August 2005, however the Directors the General Counsel & Company Secretary and, in accordance do make the following initial observations: with agreed procedures, are also able to obtain independent professional advice as required at the Companys expense.
The Directors consider Gerry Robinson to be independent of management in his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman On appointment, new Directors are given the opportunity to participate in an external professional programme for Directors 2.
The Board had already appointed Donald Brydon as its Senior and are offered other appropriate induction and training.
Independent Director but it is not currently intended that he will accompany management at meetings with institutional All of the Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience shareholders unless requested by shareholders to the Board and participate fully in decisions on key issues facing the Group.
All Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman 3.
In view of the relatively small size of the Board, it is currently are considered by the Board to be independent of management intended to continue the practice of all Non-Executive Directors, and free from any business or other relationship which could including the Non-Executive Chairman, being members of both materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
the Remuneration and Audit Committees with such Committees continuing to benefit from the diversity and experience the The Board generally meets at least six times a year focusing on various Non-Executive Directors bring to the proceedings.
strategic issues and financial performance.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and decisions are As a Company listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as well communicated widely throughout the Allied Domecq Group of as being subject to UK legislation and practice, Allied Domecq is companies.
Included within this formal schedule of matters is subject to the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission responsibility for the Groups risk management strategy.
We continually monitor our compliance with such rules members are provided with sufficient information on a timely basis as applicable to foreign registrants and are in compliance with in order to ensure their ability to discharge their duties.
the rules that are currently in force.
The Company follows UK corporate governance practice which does not differ significantly The Board of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Limited and the from the corporate governance standards set out in section 303A Quick Service Restaurants Executive generally meet monthly.
of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual, except These groups, together with the Executive Committee of the that the Nomination Committee is required to be comprised of Board, formulate strategy and oversee day-to-day operations a majority, rather than entirely, of independent Directors.
of the Group, approve projects within capital expenditure limits delegated by the main Board, and lead the management Executive and Non-Executive Directors development process.
During the year under review, the Executive Directors were The Board has established a number of Board Committees, engaged on employment contracts subject to 24 months written each of which has formal terms of reference.
Membership notice given by either party.
However, as stated in the Directors of Board Committees is shown on page 39.
Remuneration Report on pages 46 and 47, the Executive Directors have subsequently entered into new employment contracts subject The Remuneration Committee is comprised of the five to 12 months written notice given by either party.
Non-Executive independent Non-Executive Directors responsible for determining Directors are appointed for three-year terms and are generally the remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service limited to six years of service.
In accordance with the Companys of the Executive Directors.
It also reviews external appointments Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by offered to Executive Directors.
The Committee generally meets shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, and at least twice per year.
Committee members are not eligible for any to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
share options, bonuses or pension entitlements.
The Committee The Non-Executive Directors fee levels are determined by the has access to the services of independent advisers as required.
Board of Directors, whilst the Executive Directors salary levels are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Directors do not participate in decisions regarding their own remuneration.
42 The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the system of financial A process of annual control self-assessment and hierarchical and operational controls of the Group.
It also considers the Groups reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail of compliance with the Combined Code and oversees the objectivity, accountability from the local business unit to regional management effectiveness and independence of the auditors.
The Committee to executive management.
This process includes an internal is comprised of the five independent Non-Executive Directors.
control questionnaire which is completed for all business units The Committee can request the external auditors, Executive and reviewed by regional management.
The questionnaire is Directors and any other officers of the Group to attend its tailored by region to reflect the potential risks and the control meetings.
Additionally, the Groups internal and external auditors environment of the region and each region has appointed a have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters of business risk champion to challenge, validate and collate the concern.
The Committee is required to meet at least twice each responses into regionally owned reports.
These self-assessment year and met twice during the financial year ended 31 August tools provide for successive assurances at increasingly higher 2003.
The Committee receives periodic reports from the internal levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
audit function, the external auditors and management summarising The process and the supporting documentation are reviewed audit issues noted and corrective actions planned.
It also approves by the internal auditors for completeness, accuracy and compliance the provision of audit, audit-related and non-audit services to the with Combined Code requirements.
Planned corrective actions, Group by the external auditors.
During the year, the Board where applicable, are independently monitored for timely completion.
approved new terms of reference for the Audit Committee to ensure its responsibilities were broadly consistent with current Through these mechanisms, risk assessment and internal corporate governance guidance and included the responsibilities control have been embedded in ongoing operations.
Business required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In addition, the performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely Committee itself approved detailed procedures to ensure manner, their financial implications assessed, control procedures compliance with the auditor independence provisions of that Act.
re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
The Nomination Committee has responsibility for leading the In addition, throughout the year, the Company has operated process for Board appointments and making recommendations a Disclosure Committee, as recommended by the SEC, which to the Board.
It is comprised of a majority of independent Nonis responsible for considering the materiality of information to be Executive Directors and meets from time to time as required.
included in its financial reports as well as determining the Groups disclosure obligations on a timely basis.
The Disclosure Committee The Turnbull guidance for directors on internal control was issued reports to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Board confirms that it has established a process that meets Relations with shareholders the Turnbull guidance.
The process has been in place for the whole The Board believes it is important to respond adequately to all the of the year to 31 August 2003 and, as part of this process, the queries of both institutional and private shareholders.
At the AGM Board has received and reviewed regular reports during the year shareholders are offered an opportunity to raise with the Board and on internal control and risk and has reviewed the effectiveness the respective Board Committee Chairmen any specific questions of the Groups system of internal control.
they have concerning the Group.
In addition, meetings are also held between individual Directors and institutional shareholders at Internal control various times during the year.
At the AGM the Company indicates, The Board of Directors has final responsibility for the system following a vote on each resolution, the number of proxy votes of internal control maintained by the Group.
The responsibility lodged and the notices covering each AGM are sent to the for establishing and operating detailed control procedures within shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
each operating business lies with the operating Board and local management.
The approach to internal control is risk based, Going concern with risk management processes including an evaluation of the After making enquiries, the Directors, at the time of approving likelihood and impact of risks.
This system provides reasonable, the financial statements, have determined that there is reasonable but not absolute, assurance against material loss and includes expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate the safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
records, the reliability of financial information, compliance with For this reason, the Directors have adopted the going concern appropriate legislation, regulation and best practice, and the basis in preparing the financial statements.
identification and mitigation of business risks.
Group and local management are responsible for the identification and evaluation Compliance with Combined Code of key applicable business, operational, compliance and financial The Company was in compliance throughout the financial year with risks.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis, taking into the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code account the overall risk environment, and may be associated except that Executive Directors were engaged on employment with a variety of internal or external sources including control contracts subject to 24 months written notice given by either breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, party during the year.
However, as stated in the Directors natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Remuneration Report on pages 46 and 47, the Executive Directors have subsequently entered into new employment contracts subject Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews which to 12 months written notice given by either party and the Company include consideration of long-term financial projections and the would be in compliance on this basis.
Operating units prepare annual budgets: performance against budget is actively monitored both Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has reviewed the Directors at the level of the Board of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Limited statement on the Companys compliance to the extent required and the Quick Service Restaurants Executive and the Board, by the Listing Rules and its report appears on page 52. supported by regular forecasts.
