corporate governance The Board supports the principles of good governance and code of best materially interfere with the exercise of their independent practice set out by the Hampel Committee as appended to the FSA judgement.
They have no service contracts and their original Listing Rules the Combined Code.
This statement sets out how the selection was not made through a formal process, but their reCompany has applied all the provisions of the Combined Code appointment is considered every three years by the Board and, if throughout the period under review, with the exception of the provisions the Board recommends such re-appointment, by the Company.
relating to terms of office for Non-Executive Directors and a Nomination Committee, as detailed in the following sections.
Internal Control and Risk Management Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the The Board of Directors The Board currently consists of Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms five Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and thereby complying with Provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Code managing the significant risks faced by the Group, and that this which recommends that at least one-third of the Board be Nonprocess has been in place for the year under review and up to the Executive Directors.
date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is consistent with the The Board, which meets regularly throughout the year, is Turnbull Guidance.
responsible for determining policy and business strategy, setting financial and other performance objectives and monitoring The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal achievement.
There is a clear division of roles between the control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman takes responsibility risk management, to safeguard shareholders investments and the for the conduct of Company and Board meetings ensuring that Companys assets.
It is acknowledged that any system of internal Directors are properly briefed to enable full, constructive Board control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and that discussions.
The Chief Executive is required to develop and lead even the most effective system can only provide reasonable, and business strategies and processes for the furtherance of the Group.
not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow it to discharge The Companys risk management policy requires all business units its duties, all Directors are given full and timely access to all relevant to operate appropriate and effective risk management processes.
information, have free access to the advice and services of the The Company has a detailed risk management process which Company Secretary and may receive independent advice at the identifies the key risks facing each division.
These processes are expense of the Company.
designed to support the Groups strategic direction and business objectives.
Responsibility for risk management rests with line There has been no Nomination Committee of the Board management and the Company endeavours to ensure that the throughout the period under review, the appointment of both appropriate infrastructure, controls, systems and processes are in Executive and Non-Executive Directors being a matter for the place.
A Compliance Manager has the responsibility to oversee and Board as a whole.
The Combined Code states that there should be review the internal control and risk policies and procedures and a Nomination Committee unless the Board is small.
The Directors management framework within the Group.
The Compliance consider the size of the current Board to be small, but will review Manager reports to the Board and to the Audit Committee on any the position should the number of Directors increase substantially.
The Companys Articles of Association ensure that all Directors The Directors confirm that they have carried out a review of the must seek re-election at least once every three years.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, the key features of which include: Non-Executive Directors Mr D J Brecher, aged 76, is a fulltime consultant with Nicholson, Graham & Jones, Solicitors, whose Management Structure The Board has overall firm provides occasional legal services to the Group on normal responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of commercial terms.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Following the Company on 28 August 1987 since when he has brought to the a recent review of such matters a Corporate Management Board a wealth of experience both in legal and corporate matters.
He Committee was formed, comprising the Chairman, Chief has been appointed as the senior Non-Executive Director to whom Executive and Group Finance Director.
This Committee regularly any concerns of the other Directors may be conveyed.
monitors the Groups financial performance and cash flow.
It is also responsible for approving property acquisitions and other Sir William F Cotton, aged 75, formerly the Managing Director of significant contracts and for the appointment and promotions to BBC TV and Chairman of Meridian Broadcasting Limited, was senior management positions.
Each Executive Director has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 6 May given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
His interests encompass keeping abreast of any changes in Executive Directors, together with key senior executives, meet the Broadcast Industry and their potential impact on the Group.
regularly to discuss day-to-day operational matters.
Mr P E Selway-Swift, aged 59, formerly Deputy Chairman of HSBC Corporate Accounting and Procedures Manual Investment Bank and Chairman of Samuel Montagu & Co, now Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as serves on the boards of a number of companies in the United part of the ISO 9002 manual which sets out, amongst other Kingdom and Hong Kong.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive things, the general ethos of the Group, delegation of authority Director of the Company on 18 September 1998 and his financial and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control and commercial expertise, coupled with his extensive knowledge of procedures.
The manual is updated regularly and procedures are conducting business in Hong Kong and China gained in his capacity subject to internal and external audit.
as Executive Director of Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Quality and Integrity of Personnel The integrity and Corporation in Hong Kong, bring significant benefits to the Group.
competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and standards and subsequent training.
High quality personnel is seen are free from any business or other relationship which could as an essential part of the control environment.
18 corporate governance and wider stakeholder communities.
The Board acknowledges the Identification of Business Risks The Compliance Manager holds quarterly meetings of divisional directors or their commercial and ethical importance of the development and nominees to review identified and emerging risks and reports to the maintenance of a culture of continuous improvement in CSR Board on any material issues.
The Board is responsible for matters as far as they are relevant to the Groups activities and identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for accepts that the implementation of a system for measuring and determining the appropriate course of action to manage those risks.
reporting on key CSR indicators may, over time, be appropriate.
Budgetary Process Each year the Board approves the Employees annual budget.
Key risk areas are identified.
Performance is The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment monitored and relevant action is taken throughout the year through where staff are individually valued and recognised, and appreciates regular reporting to the Board of variances from the budget.
its responsibility to encourage and assist in the employment, training, promotion and personal career development of all Investment Appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by employees without prejudice.
a budgetary process and authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specific levels, proposals have to be submitted to It is the Groups policy to promote equal opportunities in the Board.
Due diligence work is carried out if a business is employment and this policy extends to employees and applicants for to be acquired.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled persons are fully and fairly considered Insurances The Company maintains insurance cover with having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities and that reputable insurers and works closely with brokers, underwriters disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, career and their consultants on risk management policies and controls.
In the event of an existing employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their Audit Committee This comprises the Non-Executive employment by the Group continues and that appropriate Directors, Mr D J Brecher Chairman, Sir William F Cotton and adjustments and training are provided.
This Committee, which reports to the Board, is responsible for reviewing accounting policies and The Group recognises that its employees are fundamental to its reporting requirements, ensuring the maintenance of accounting continued success and strives to provide an environment which systems and controls and ensuring that the external audit process attracts and retains the best staff.
It also places value on the is effective.
involvement of its employees and keeps them informed not only on The Audit Committee monitors the controls which are in force matters affecting them as employees, but also on various factors and any perceived gaps in the control environment.
The Audit affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through Committee also considers and determines relevant action in both formal and informal meetings which also provide an respect of any control issues raised by the external auditors.
opportunity for the views of employees to be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function and concluded that the current size of the Group does not justify Participation by eligible staff in the success of the Group is the establishment of an independent internal audit department but encouraged by the availability of a UK only Savings-Related Share will keep the matter under review.
Finance personnel are regularly Option Scheme and an Executive Share Option Scheme for senior instructed to conduct specific and detailed reviews of business staff, which aligns their interests with those of shareholders by functions relating to key risk areas and to report their findings to requiring that options may only be exercised conditional upon the Board.
Going Concern The Directors confirm that the Group has After completion of a qualifying period UK employees are invited adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the to join the Alba plc Group Retirement and Death Benefit Scheme, a contracted-in money purchase scheme.
The Groups overseas foreseeable future and, consequently, they continue to adopt the subsidiaries provide mandatory pension scheme facilities for their going concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
Directors' responsibilities for the Financial Statements Directors are required by the Companies Act Health, Safety and Environmental PoliciesThe Group 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which recognises and accepts its responsibilities for health, safety and the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and environment H, S & E. A full time Senior Manager is responsible for compliance issues including Health & Safety advice the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or and for the development and monitoring of H, S & E policies, loss for that period.
It is also the Directors' responsibility to procedures and control systems.
He reports to the Board through maintain adequate accounting records, safeguard the assets of the the Chief Executive.
Company and the Group and take reasonable steps in preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Group is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, environment at all its locations which fully reflects local requirements consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent for overseas sites, not only for our employees but also for visitors, judgements and estimates, have been used in the preparation of the members of the public and third parties.
The Group recognises that financial statements on a going concern basis, and that applicable it is everyones responsibility for reducing the risk of injury and accounting standards have been followed.
occupational related illness at the workplace.
A nominee is appointed at each of our UK locations and is trained to act as a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The Board is Representative for Employee Safety and to monitor adherence to mindful of the guidelines produced by the Association of British agreed procedures and controls, reporting back centrally when Insurers and the attention being given to CSR issues by investors appropriate.
19 corporate governance The Group seeks to minimise the environmental impact of its There are specific requirements relating to employment conditions activities and aims to operate in accordance with the standards based on a respect for fundamental human rights.
Issues such as a required by law, codes of best practice and issued guidelines.
The minimum wage, overtime, hours of work and sickness pay must Group is also participating through its membership of trade fully comply with local laws, custom and practice.
Exploitation of associations in the consultative stages of emerging environmental child labour or any other vulnerable group is not tolerated nor is legislation, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic WEEE the use of forced or bonded labour or any practice involving Directive and the Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical physical or mental abuse.
Suppliers must comply with all local laws and Electronic Equipment ROHS Directive.
relating to health and safety both in the workplace and residentially where facilities are provided.
The provision of adequate first aid Key elements of its social, environmental and ethical SEE facilities is essential at all times and in all locations.
The Group policy are: requires working conditions to be of an acceptable standard with the provision, to all staff, of access to sanitation, drinking water and i The integration of an SEE audit into a comprehensive supplier quality assurance programme with factory audits and fire escapes, adequate ventilation and reasonable working inspections being carried out by qualified inspectors and a temperatures and arrangements for meal breaks.
These audits cover conditions Suppliers are expected to adhere to all laws and local regulations of employment, health and safety, working conditions and relating to the protection of the environment and to actively environmental issues.
Further details are set out under the acknowledge their responsibility to improve the environment heading Suppliers below.
through participation in any local initiatives.
The Code is reviewed ii An ongoing product review programme which assesses and on a regular basis and employees and suppliers are invited to minimises the environmental impact resulting from product contribute to the further development of it.
manufacture, use and eventual disposal.
Relations with Shareholders Presentations by the iii The continuation of efforts to minimise the environmental Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Financial Director to impact of product packaging through reduction at source, use institutional shareholders and City analysts are made on the issue of recyclable or recycled materials and the active of full year and interim results and as and when considered encouragement of the proper recycling of packaging waste.
appropriate by the Board or the Companys advisers.
All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General iv The management and control of waste disposal both from its Meeting each year and have the opportunity to put questions to warehouses and office facilities.
The Chairman of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees will also be available at the forthcoming Annual v Effective communication to management, employees and General Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
suppliers of the Groups SEE policy to ensure their commitment to practical implementation and ongoing development.
Suppliers The Group seeks to develop long-term business relationships with its suppliers who are required to maintain ethical standards which are acceptable to the Group and to conduct their business dealings in a fair and honest way.
These principles, which are set out in a Code of Conduct the Code, extend to their relations with employees, sub contractors and other third parties.
