com Corporate governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code During the financial period ended 26 April 2003 the Company has been fully compliant with the Code of Best Practice as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Accordingly, the Board sets out below its report on how it applies the principles of the Combined Code, excluding those areas which are specically reported on elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Statement of application of the principles of the Combined Code The Board comprises six Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman who is responsible for running the Board, and three Executive Directors being the Chief Executive officer who has overall responsibility for running the Companys business, the Chief Operating officer and the Group Finance Director.
The Board considers four of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Eric Nicoli, the Chairman, is the Executive Chairman of EMI Group plc, a major supplier of the Company and is by virtue of this relationship not considered to be independent.
Steven Tadler is a director of Advent International plc, which through its fund management is a major shareholder in the Company he is therefore also not considered independent.
The Company believes that the Directors have between them a wide range of experience which ensures an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
In accordance with recommendations of the Combined Code Non-Executive Directors comprise more than one third of the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for initial terms of three years and the Articles of Association include a requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year following his or her election or re-election, as the case may be.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code, Roy Brown, the Deputy Chairman, was appointed as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 23 July 2002.
The other independent Non-Executive Directors are David Kappler, Mark McCafferty and Lesley Knox.
The biographical details of the members of the Board are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The Board, which together with sub-committees of the Board other than the Audit, Nominations or Remuneration Committees, met on 16 occasions during the financial year ended 26 April 2003, provides effective leadership and manages overall control of the Groups affairs and to this end has reserved certain matters for decision by the Board only.
These include approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure, significant acquisitions and disposals, risk management policies and the approval of financial statements.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner on a regular basis with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
On appointment to the Board, all Directors are given a brieng on their responsibilities as Directors and thereafter receive further guidance as and when required.
Training programmes, including induction into the operations of the Company, are being developed for future newly appointed Directors.
There are also procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice at the cost of the Company, if appropriate.
No advice was sought by the Directors in the year under review.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
In general terms, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that the Company has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy: that there is a Chief Executive officer with a team able to implement the strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives and that the Company is operating in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance.
The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to Board Committees with clearly dened authority and terms of reference.
The composition and main functions of these Committees are described below.
Board Committees The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 September 2003.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which meets a minimum of three times a year, is comprised of David Kappler Chairman, Roy Brown, Lesley Knox, Mark McCafferty, Eric Nicoli and Steven Tadler.
The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year under review.
The Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors attend meetings at the invitation of the Audit Committee.
The main duties of the Audit Committee are to: Review, on behalf of the Board, the financial statements and preliminary and interim results: Review the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings of the external auditors: Review, on behalf of the Board, the Groups systems of internal control: Review and direct the internal audit function and findings: Make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: and Review the cost effectiveness and objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Groups annual report, financial statements and preliminary and interim results remains with the Board.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of Audit Committee meetings to the Board.
com The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions in the year under review.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 41.
The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required each year.
The Chief Executive officer and the Group Human Resources Director attend meetings at the invitation of the Remuneration Committee.
The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee are, on behalf of the Board and the shareholders: To determine the Companys policy for executive remuneration: To determine the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, including pension rights and compensation payments: and To oversee the implementation and operation of share incentive schemes.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of the Remuneration Committee meetings to the Board.
The Boards Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 49 sets out the Companys application of the principles of Section 1B of the Combined Code and the Companies Act 1985.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises Eric Nicoli Chairman, Roy Brown, David Kappler, Lesley Knox, Mark McCafferty and Steven Tadler.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when required each year.
It did not meet during the year under review.
The principal functions of the Nominations Committee are to: Consider the composition of the Board: Consider retirements and appointments to the Board: and Make recommendations in these respects to the Board.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the outcome of the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
A system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the Groups system of internal controls including financial operational and compliance controls as well as risk management, and that these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out in the Turnbull Report, that such controls have been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, and that there are satisfactory ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These processes accord with provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
The systems of internal control and the processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of those systems include: Group Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision: Clearly dened organisational structures and appropriate delegated authorities: Regular performance monitoring with remedial action taken where necessary: Established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring major projects: A comprehensive system of financial reporting which includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting with rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting to enable the Group to meets its public financial reporting requirements: Certain centralised functions that are staffed by appropriately qualied individuals who draw on external professional advice.
These functions include finance, tax, treasury, management information services, legal, company secretarial, and internal audit: A Policies and Procedures Manual which sets out, inter alia, authority limits and guidelines for capital expenditure, which include annual budgets and appraisal and review procedures.
All operating businesses have to confirm compliance with the Manual on an annual basis: Detailed risk registers which describe the significant risks and control strategies in each area of the business and which are reviewed annually: and An internal audit function which carries out a programme of audits covering the management of significant corporate risks, and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of key internal controls.
com Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Approving the scope of the annual Group risk management programme: Reviewing the results of the risk identication process: Providing input on risks and internal controls into the annual Board strategy discussions: Reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process and discussing significant risk issues with the Board: Considering reports from internal and external audit on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses: Reviewing the internal audit and external audit work plans: and At the year end, before producing the statement in the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board, through the Audit Committee, considers reports generated from internal and external audit on any major problems that have occurred during the year.
Relations with shareholders The Directors place high importance on maintaining good relationships with both institutional and private investors and ensure, through an Investor Relations programme, that shareholders are kept informed of significant Group developments.
Shareholders can access further information on the Group via the website at www.
In addition, members of the Board meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts, and the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Companys general meetings, where shareholders are invited to ask questions and express views on the Companys business.
The Chairmen of all the Board Committees will be in attendance at the Companys Annual General Meeting in September.
Accountability and audit The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
This assessment is provided primarily in the statements from the Chairman and Chief Executive, and in the Operating review and Financial review on pages 18 to 35.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors with a view to conrming that, in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and value for money on the other has been kept appropriately in balance.
In this context, the Audit Committee considers that it is appropriate for the external auditor to provide to the Group tax advice, tax planning and other accounting services, including those in connection with supporting and reporting on financial representations in public documentation.
The provision of other services is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid in the year under review are given on page 63.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements in preparing the financial statements on pages 54 to 84.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
