training, career development and promotion of DIRECTORS Holidaybreak plc disabled persons should, as far as possible, be The Directors of the Company who served during the identical with that of other employees.
year were as follows: Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors POLICY ON EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT RJ Ayling RW Atkinson The Group places considerable value on the appointed 1 February 2003 RG Baddeley involvement of its employees and keeps them HA Crichton-Miller JR Crew informed on matters affecting them as employees and resigned 31 May 2003 NP Cust on the various factors affecting the performance of CH McLintock SJ Tobin the Group.
This is achieved through formal and JAS Wallace MC Wray informal meetings, regular briefings, the Company The Directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests newsletter and circulation of results announcements in the shares of the Company as at 30 September and important public statements.
Employees are 2003, together with changes between the end of the consulted regularly on a wide range of matters financial year and 2 December 2003, are disclosed Directors Report affecting their current and future interests.
Within the Directors Report on page 19.
The Directors present their annual report on the Camping and Adventure Divisions, this is achieved affairs of the Group, together with the financial In accordance with the Articles of Association of the through the election of employee representatives who statements and independent auditors report for Company, RW Atkinson, RG Baddeley and SJ Tobin are members of a staff council or forum and meet the year ended 30 September 2003. retire by rotation at the 2004 Annual General regularly with management.
In the case of the Hotel Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reBreaks Division, consultation takes place via PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS election.
On 23 December 2002, RW Atkinson departmental heads.
Permanent employees are, in the REVIEW entered into a new service agreement with the majority of cases, entitled to receive bonuses related The Company acts as the holding company for Company which provides for a notice period of to individual or team performance.
All permanent UK Greenbank Holidays Limited, Eurocamp Travel GmbH, twelve months with full contractual benefits being employees of the Group are given the opportunity to Eurocamp Travel Schweitz AG, Camping in Comfort payable in the event of early termination.
join the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
BV, Superbreak Mini Holidays Group Limited, Explore RG Baddeley entered into a service agreement with CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY AND NUMBER Worldwide Limited, Regal Diving & Tours Limited and the Company on 18 January 1996 for an initial OF DAYS their subsidiary undertakings.
The principal activities period of twelve months with a notice period of The Groups policy is to pay suppliers on terms agreed of the Group are the provision of camping holidays twelve months thereafter.
SJ Tobin entered into a with each supplier.
The Company had no trade including the hiring-out of fully equipped tents and service agreement with the Company on 1 January creditors outstanding as at 30 September 2003. mobile-homes on camp-sites throughout Europe, the 2001 for an initial period of twelve months with a provision of hotel short-breaks in the UK and CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS notice period of twelve months thereafter.
continental Europe, and worldwide adventure and During the year the Group contributed a total of Biographical details of the Directors are given on activity holidays.
Details of the Groups performance 32,000 to charities.
Further details of the Groups page 19.
Details of Directors emoluments and share during the year and expected future developments involvement in charities is contained on page 24. options are given in the Directors Remuneration are contained in the Chairmans Statement and Chief The Company did not make any political donations.
Executives Review on pages 2-6, and in the Financial ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Review on pages 16-17.
A review of activities by SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The 2004 Annual General Meeting will be held at each of the divisions is contained on pages 7-15.
Details of interests in the ordinary share capital of The Oaklands Hotel, Millington Lane, Gorstage, There have been no important events affecting the the Company which, as at 2 December 2003, had Weaverham, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2SU on been notified to the Company in accordance with business of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries, Tuesday 10 February 2004 at 2.30pm.
sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 are which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS auditors to the Company will be proposed at the The profit after taxation for the year ended 30 ACQUISITIONS BY THE COMPANY OF ITS Annual General Meeting.
Full details of all the September 2003 amounted to 14,609,000 year OWN SHARES resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory ended 30 September 2002 - 16,911,000.
The Shareholders authority for the purchase by the notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Annual Company of 4,702,000 of its own shares existed at Directors recommend a final dividend of 16.0p General Meeting which accompanies this annual 2002 14.1p per ordinary share which, together the end of the financial year.
The Directors will seek report and financial statements.
with the interim dividend of 6.0p 2002 5.9p, to renew this authority at the 2004 Annual General By order of the Board represents a total of 22.0p per ordinary share Meeting.
POLICY ON DISABLED EMPLOYEES It is proposed that the retained profit of 4,284,000 Applications for employment by disabled persons are 2002 - 7,616,000 be transferred to reserves.
always fully considered, bearing in mind the Julie Vickers ACIS aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of Company Secretary members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is 4 December 2003 made to ensure that their employment with the Registered Office: Hartford Manor, Greenbank Lane, Northwich, Group continues and that appropriate training is Cheshire CW8 1HW Registered in England No: 2305562 arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the 20 Procedures are in place to ensure that all Directors The Nomination Committee are provided with appropriate and timely The Nomination Committee is responsible for information, and Directors have access at all times recommending candidates for Board appointment.
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Committee engages external advisors to assist The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board with the recruitment of Directors.
Candidates go for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and through a rigorous assessment before a that applicable rules and regulations are complied recommendation is put forward to the Board.
Directors are able to take independent The Directors who served on the Nomination professional advice, if required, at the expense of Committee during the year were as follows: the Company.
HA Crichton-Miller resigned 31 May 2003 Executive Directors receive annual appraisals which RJ Ayling appointed 1 February 2003 are carried out by the Chief Executive.
Appraisal CH McLintock reports are reviewed by the Remuneration JAS Wallace Corporate Governance Committee.
The Chairman carries out annual Governance The Committee was chaired by HA Crichton-Miller The Board is committed to high standards of appraisals for the Chief Executive and the other until his resignation on 31 May 2003 and by corporate governance in its management of the Non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans appraisal RJ Ayling from 1 June 2003. affairs of the Group.
It is accountable to the is carried out by the other Non-executive Directors.
Company's shareholders for good governance and All Directors receive appropriate induction training The Remuneration Committee this statement outlines how the principles set out on appointment to the Board.
Other training The Remuneration Committee is responsible for in Section 1 of the Combined Code have been requirements are identified as part of the annual ensuring that remuneration policy facilitates the applied throughout the accounting period.
During the year, the Directors attraction, retention and motivation of senior attended an in-house training course on Directors executives of appropriate calibre, whilst avoiding The Board of Directors Duties and Responsibilities.
Details of membership of the The Board of Directors consists of an independent Committee and its current remuneration policies are Chairman, six Executive Directors and two Board Committees given in the Directors Remuneration Report on independent Non-executive Directors, both of whom The Audit, Nomination and Remuneration pages 25-28. are considered to be independent of management Committees each have written terms of reference.
and free from any business or other relationship These are published on the Companys website at Dialogue with Institutional which could materially interfere with the exercise of www.
The posts of The Directors seek to build on a mutual Chairman, which is a non-executive position, and The Audit Committee understanding of objectives between the Company Chief Executive, are not combined ensuring a clear The Audit Committee reviews the half-year and and its institutional shareholders.
Results division of responsibility at the head of the annual financial statements.
It also meets regularly presentations are made on a bi-annual basis to Company.
CH McLintock, Non-executive Director and with the external auditors to monitor the adequacy market analysts and cover the historic results, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has of the Groups internal controls, risk management current trading and immediate future prospects.
been designated as Senior Independent Director.
processes, accounting policies and financial A series of one-to-one and group meetings are then reporting.
The Committee also keeps under review Biographical notes on all the Directors are given on held with institutional shareholders and potential non-audit work carried out by the Companys page 19 of the annual report and financial institutional investors covering the same material.
statements and fuller biographies are available on The Companys advisors provide regular feedback the Company's website at www.
The Directors who served on the Audit Committee from investors and analysts and the Directors during the year were as follows: communicate with investors and analysts on a Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified JAS Wallace Chairman regular basis throughout the year as required.
terms of three years, subject to a requirement to RJ Ayling appointed 1 February 2003 give three months notice in the event of resignation Statement of Compliance with HA Crichton-Miller resigned 31 May 2003 within that period and also subject to re-election the Provisions of the Combined CH McLintock and to Companies Act provisions relating to the Code removal of a Director.
Reappointment is not The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance The Directors consider that throughout the automatic.
New Directors appointed by the Board Director and a representative of the external accounting period ended 30 September 2003, the must submit themselves for re-election by auditors attend meetings at the invitation of the Company has complied with the Code provisions set shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Committee.
Meetings are held not less than three out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on following their appointment.
It is proposed that at least one Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules.
accordance with the Combined Code, the Companys meeting a year is held where the external auditors Articles of Association require that all Directors attend without executive management present.
stand for re-election at intervals of not more than External auditors may request a meeting if they three years.
consider that such a meeting is necessary.
21 Holidaybreak plc Board Responsibilities and Planning The Board has overall responsibility for the management of the Group, the formulation of the Groups corporate strategy, approval of acquisitions, annual Group budget, major capital expenditure The Revised Combined Code Internal Control and disposals and treasury policy.
Control of On 23 July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council The Board of Directors has overall responsibility operational matters is delegated through the Group published The Combined Code on Corporate for ensuring that the Company maintains a Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Governance, July 2003, which derived from a system of internal financial control to provide respective divisional and subsidiary managing review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive them with reasonable assurance regarding the directors and local directors as appropriate.
This directors by Derek Higgs and a review of audit reliability of financial information used within the structure ensures a strong link between corporate committees by a group led by Sir Robert Smith.
The business and for publication and that assets are strategy and its effective implementation.
Directors are currently reviewing the Boards safeguarded.
corporate governance in light of the revised Code.
The Board meets at least once each month, with the Subsidiary businesses produce monthly Although it is the Boards intention to increase the exception of December, to review the affairs and management accounts information which is used number of independent non-executive directors trading progress of the various businesses within to compare actual performance with budget and relative to executive directors, it does not expect to Holidaybreak plc and the Group as a whole.
These accounts include comply with the provision requiring at least half the of the Executive Directors report to the Board on updated forecasts and other information to Board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise relevant matters relating to their areas of enable the Board to assess the prospects of all independent non-executive directors.
responsibility, having previously circulated written businesses in the Group.
There are specific reports to all Board members.
All members of the guidelines for the appraisal and authorisation of Directors Responsibilities Board are expected to attend the main monthly all capital expenditure and disposal proposals.
United Kingdom company law requires the Directors meetings and to arrange their diaries to ensure that to prepare financial statements for each financial this is possible.
With the exception of the April The Group has an established internal year which give a true and fair view of the state of Board meeting at which one director CH McLintock organisation structure with clearly defined lines of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit was absent due to health reasons, there was 100% responsibility and accountability.
This is or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the attendance at all meetings in the period covered by supported by well established and documented financial statements, the Directors are required to: these financial statements.
accounting controls and procedures common to all individual businesses.
Certain of the Group's select suitable accounting policies and then apply The three trading divisions of the Group, Camping, key functions including the company secretariat, them consistently, Hotel Breaks and Adventure Holidays also hold treasury, legal, taxation compliance and make judgements and estimates that are monthly board meetings to report on and review planning and business risk insurance are reasonable and prudent, trading progress and discuss future plans.
The undertaken centrally under the direct control of state whether applicable accounting standards Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance have been followed, subject to any material sit on the divisional boards and attend meetings in Director.
departures disclosed and explained in the a non-executive capacity.
There are inherent limitations in any system of The planning and budgeting cycle enables internal financial control and accordingly even the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper management at all levels to identify and address all most effective system can provide only accounting records which disclose with reasonable significant business risks and to control the strategic reasonable, and not absolute, assurance with accuracy at any time the financial position of the and financial objectives of the Group.
The Board is respect to the preparation of financial information Company and the Group and enable them to ensure responsible for the formulation of medium term and safeguarding of assets.
The Board regularly that the financial statements comply with the corporate strategy.
This in turn provides a basis for reviews the effectiveness of the systems, control Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the formulation and review of divisional strategy by and reporting procedures and will continue to do the system of internal control, safeguarding the the divisional boards.
All strategic plans are subject so, making any changes required as a result of the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for to an annual review.
Divisional strategic plans and review and the development of the Group.
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and annual reviews are presented to and reviewed by the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Board and, once approved, form the basis of annual The Board has applied Principle D. 2 of the budgets.
Combined Code by establishing a continuous Going Concern process for identifying, evaluating and managing Detailed reviews of the trading divisions are After making enquiries, the Directors have a the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board included within these financial statements.
The reasonable expectation that the Company and the regularly reviews the process, which has been in Board uses these, together with the Chairmans Group have adequate resources to continue in place from the start of the year to the date of statement and Finance Directors review, to present operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For approval of this report and which is in accordance a balanced and understandable assessment of the this reason, they continue to adopt the going with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on Groups position and prospects concern basis.
the Combined Code published in September 1999.
22 The Board is responsible for the Group's system of Corporate Social internal control and for reviewing its CSR Responsibility effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to The duty of the Board is to further the interests of The Board is not currently aware of any unusual or manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to the Company as a whole, particularly for the benefit potentially onerous risks which may arise from the achieve business objectives, and can only provide of the shareholder.
The Board recognises its social and environmental impact of its activities.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against responsibilities towards the Companys employees.
However, it recognises that it currently lacks material misstatement or loss.
The Board also believes that it is in the Companys information at a sufficiently detailed level and that In compliance with Provision D. 2.1 of the interests to recognise environmental and social the introduction of further controls may be Combined Code, the Board continuously reviews issues arising from the growth in travel and our necessary.
the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal responsibilities towards the communities in which control.
The Board's monitoring covers all controls, we operate.
We support the principles of including financial, operational and compliance sustainable tourism, as we believe the opportunity controls and risk management.
It is based to experience the unspoilt natural world is one of Explore follows Tourism Concern guidelines on porter welfare and provides tents, sleeping bags and ponchos for principally on reviewing monthly reports from the key features of the holidays we offer.
its Kilimanjaro porters executive management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has considered the need to establish an internal audit resource and, whilst at present this has not been implemented this matter remains under active review.
The Board conducts an annual Group-wide selfassessment process designed to review the effectiveness of all internal controls and risk management processes at both subsidiary and Group level.
This process is designed to highlight key risks to the business and to consider what action should reasonably and cost effectively be taken to manage them.
The Board has completed a Group-Wide self-assessment process which was reviewed and approved by the Board on 26 We are pleased that the low impact nature of our November 2003.
There will be an ongoing review activities and our commitment to make a positive of the process.
impact on society has achieved recognition in our inclusion in the FTSE4Good index and our shares It is not the Groups intention to avoid all being held by various SRI Socially Responsible commercial risks and commercial judgement will Investment funds.
Furthermore, we believe that, be made in the course of the management of the even from a more narrow commercial and strategic Groups operations.
perspective, it is in the Groups interest to be aware The Audit Committee assists the board in of and to seek to minimise the risks arising from the discharging its review responsibilities.
social and environmental impact of our activities and to do everything possible to ensure the long term sustainability of our businesses.
Eurocamp supports the charitable efforts of its staff, including this donation for specialist equipment in a local hospital 23
