46 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The Board has identified the following non-executive directors as independent in accordance with The Board is committed to high standards of the definition of independence contained in the corporate governance.
new Code: The listing rules of the UK Listing Authority Tony fide Nunzio Senior Independent Director the Listing Rules require listed companies to Lesley Knox disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the principles of Ian Smith good governance and code of best practice produced Peter Wallis by the Committee on Corporate Governance and appended to the Listing Rules the Combined Code, Non-executive directors are appointed for an how they have applied its principles and whether or not initial term of three years, subject to reappointment they have complied with its provisions throughout the by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment are financial year.
Consequently this report describes how available for inspection at the Annual General the Group applies the principles and complies with Meeting and on request.
A Committee appointed the provisions of the Combined Code.
by the Board comprising the Chairman and Chief In addition, following the issue of the new Code Executive Officer agrees the fees of the non-executive provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code directors.
The Remuneration Committee determines on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial the Chairmans fee.
All directors are subject to Reporting Council in July 2003 which applies to the reappointment by shareholders at the first annual Companys next financial year, the Board has reviewed general meeting following their appointment by the the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Board and thereafter no more than every three years new Code and save for the areas described below is in by rotation under the articles of association.
The separate roles of the Chairman and Chief Organisational structure Executive are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring The Group has an appropriate organisational its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its structure for planning, executing, controlling and agenda and the Group Chief Executive, for the monitoring the business in a manner, which seeks to satisfactory execution of the strategy agreed by the achieve the Groups objectives taking into account the Board working with his fellow Executive Directors interests of all stakeholders.
and other Executive Committee members.
The primary purpose of the Board is to ensure Appropriate training is available to all directors.
that the needs and aspirations of all stakeholders are Biographical details of the directors are given satisfied.
This is achieved through the development of on page 30. a balanced strategy which serves the interests of the The Board holds regular meetings and receives stakeholders.
The Boards role is then to set the accurate and timely information.
context for the business, create suitable structures for Each year the Board meets to examine its implementing the strategies and to ensure the performance including its Committees.
coordination, alignment and motivation of resource.
A report is provided to this meeting which The Board then assesses the results of these actions summarises the feedback given by all directors to an and sets revised priorities where appropriate to experienced external facilitator on the effectiveness of service the needs of the stakeholders.
During 2003 the the Board over the past year.
This report is discussed Board met nine times.
and areas for improvement identified.
In addition, the The Board comprises the non-executive external facilitator reviews feedback from discussions Chairman, Ian Peacock, six executive directors and with the members of the Board on the performance of four independent non-executive directors.
The Chief the Chairman with the senior independent director.
Executive Officer is John Hancock.
The Board reviews The Board believes that committed relationships are its composition annually and believes that its current the essential element of an effective Board.
composition provides the balance of skills and There is a procedure for all directors to take experience appropriate to achieve the satisfactory independent external advice, at the Companys execution of the Companys strategy and the size, expense, in the course of their duties via the Company complexity and geographical spread of the business.
The Company Secretary is responsible for Consequently, the Board has no plans to increase the ensuring that board procedures are followed and all number of independent non-executive directors from directors have access to his advice and services.
four to seven which would be the number required The Board has established Audit, Remuneration for at least half the Board to comprise independent and Nominations Committees each with defined non-executive directors.
47 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 terms of reference.
The terms of reference of these for the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report Committees are reviewed regularly.
Membership of on pages 33 to 45 includes details on remuneration these Committees, which is reviewed annually, is policy, terms of appointment and the remuneration shown on page 77.
The terms of reference for each of executive directors.
During 2003 the Committee Committee are available on the Companys website.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee The Audit Committee consists of the four independent The Nominations Committee consists of the five non-executive directors and is chaired by Tony fide non-executive directors, four being independent, Nunzio.
The biographies of the independent directors and is chaired by Ian Peacock.
The Committee keeps include details of their qualification for their under review the composition of the Board, including membership of the Committee.
The Audit Committee succession, and makes recommendations to the Board assists the Board in ensuring that the Groups for all new appointments and re-appointments.
financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date Relations with shareholders information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a The Company considers its relationship with both true and fair reflection of this position.
It also assists institutional and private investors to be important the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting and readily enters into dialogue with investors.
policies, internal controls and compliance procedures An investor relations website www.
co. uk are in place and monitors the management of Risk provides an ideal channel for communication with and the effectiveness of the internal audit function by existing and potential investors.
The Annual General reviewing its work schedule and reports.
The Auditors, Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders Deloitte and Touche LLP attend its meetings, as does to put their questions to the directors.
the head of the Groups internal audit function.
At each of its meetings the Board receives a report During 2003 the Audit Committee met three times.
from the Finance Director on relations with the major During the year the Board reviewed the work of shareholders and developments and changes in their the Auditors and agreed that to further safeguard shareholdings and, during the year, it is expected that their independent position it would be appropriate the Senior Independent Director will attend a number for Deloitte to discontinue their role as adviser to the of meetings with shareholders.
Details of Deloittes fees for At the Annual General Meeting the Company audit and non-audit work during 2003 are on page 58. proposes separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and, except where a poll is called, the Remuneration Committee numbers of proxy votes cast for and against each The Remuneration Committee consists of the four resolution is reported after each resolution has been independent non-executive directors and is chaired by taken.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent Lesley Knox.
It is responsible for advising on the to shareholders at least twenty working days before remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and the meeting.
motivate executive directors of the required quality.
Risk and internal control The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing strategy and policy on executive The Board is responsible for the Groups system of remuneration and for deciding on the remuneration internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, packages of individual executive directors and reviews whilst the role of management is to implement Board the remuneration and policy of certain other senior policies on risk and control.
Such a system is, however, executives who are not on the Board.
A firm of designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of professional advisers, the Chairman, the Chief Executive failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing Officer and the Company Secretary assists the Committee these objectives, internal controls can only provide in its work.
Full details on the Committees work are reasonable assurance against misstatement or loss.
contained in the remuneration report on pages 33 to 45.
The Combined Code recommends that the Board Following a review of the role of Deloitte as at least annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups advisers to the Committee, it was decided that to system of internal controls, including financial, further safeguard Deloittes independent position as operational and compliance controls and risk Auditors, it would be appropriate for Deloitte to management.
Subsequently the Institute of Chartered discontinue their role as adviser to the Committee.
Accountants in England and Wales produced further The Committee has since appointed Ernst & Young as guidance on the wider aspects of internal control its advisers.
Ernst & Young perform no other services in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
48 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Corporate governance report continued i Risk between staff, management and the Risk Committee on matters relating to risk and control.
The Board can confirm that for the 2003 financial year, and up to the date of approval of the annual ii Internal control report and financial statements, there has been an The Group has an established framework of internal ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and controls, which includes the following key elements: managing the significant risks faced by the Group, Members of the Board have responsibility for that is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords monitoring the conduct and operations of with the Turnbull Guidance.
individual businesses within the Group.
The Group The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief reviews the strategies of the individual businesses Operating Officer and is comprised of nine senior and the executive management of each business is executives from the key areas of the business.
It is the accountable for their conduct and performance responsibility of the Risk Committee to review the within the agreed strategies.
effectiveness of the risk management process and The Group and its subsidiaries operate control internal controls, on behalf of the Board.
The Risk procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate Committee reports to the Board on how risks are accounting of financial transactions, and to limit being managed.
In addition, there is a mechanism in exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken place to report significant control breakdowns or risk include physical controls, segregation of duties in occurrences to the Executive Committee.
key areas and periodic Internal Audit reviews.
An ongoing process for the effective management The Audit Committee meets regularly and its of risk has been defined by the Risk Committee and is responsibilities are set out above.
It receives reports operated in the following stages: from the Internal Audit function on the results of Risks raised by all areas of the business, through the work carried out under a semi-annually agreed audit adoption of both a bottom-up and top-down programme.
The Audit Committee has independent process are regularly reviewed.
The key risks to each access to the internal and external auditors.
business areas objectives are identified and scored Internal Audit facilitates a process whereby for probability and impact.
The key controls to businesses provide certified statements of manage the risks to the desired level are identified.
compliance with internal financial controls, which A database of all risks and controls is utilised, and the are supported by the operation of key controls information filtered to produce a number of generic during the period.
risk areas, forming a key risk register for the Group.
The Risk Committee reviews the risks to assess the Going concern effectiveness of the risk management strategies.
After reviewing current performance and detailed Controls, which mitigate or minimise high-level risks, forecasts, taking into account available bank facilities are confirmed as operated via a self-certification and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, process completed by the relevant operational the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate employees.
resources to enable it to continue in business for the The Internal Audit Department conduct Compliance foreseeable future.
For this reason the Board believes Audits on controls upon which the Group rely upon it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going most to mitigate significant risks.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Key management are nominated in each business area, and are responsible for reviewing their Compliance with the Combined Code functions risk register.
Regular reporting on The Group has complied with the requirements of the internal and external changes that affect the risks or Financial Services Authority relating to the provisions their importance to the business, and any risk of the Combined Code and with the Turnbull Guidance occurrences, are received from these managers.
throughout the period ended on 27 December 2003 The generic risks and their management are regularly and up to the date of approval of the annual report reported to and discussed at the Executive Committee.
An ongoing program to further embed the risk process into the culture of the business is being Gerard Hughes adhered to.
This includes ongoing communication Secretary to the Groups employees through such mediums as the Risk Management Intranet Web Site designed 26 February 2004 to heighten awareness of risk issues and to communicate fully all aspects of the Groups risk process.
