DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The years results Corporate social responsibility been given suitable training for employment within the Group or Directors interests The Group profit and loss account is shown on page 46.
The Board has adopted a code of business principles and policies elsewhere.
The Group also supports charities for assisting disabled The interests of the persons including the interests of their Group profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation reflecting the high standards of conduct it expects of itself and people into work.
families who were directors at the end of the year in the amounted to 136.9 million 2002: 99.3 million and profit before employees across the Group.
The code is available from the share capital of the Company, and their interests in the Health, safety and the environment taxation amounted to 117.2 million 2002: 74.3 million.
Earnings Company Secretary and on our website www.
Companys share option schemes, are shown on pages It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions applicable to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to 71.0 million Further information on corporate social responsibility matters is set 40 and 43. and to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the 2002: 55.4 million.
Directors responsibilities for the financial statements environment.
A summary of the relevant Group policies and The directors are required to prepare financial statements for Dividends Employment policies performance is set out on pages 24 to 27 and further information is each financial period which comply with the provisions of The directors recommend a final dividend at the rate of 9.5p per The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels available on our website www.
the Companies Act 1985 and give a true and fair view of the share on the ordinary share capital payable on 25 May 2004 to in the organisation.
Formal joint consultative machinery is operated Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 April in all except the smallest units where it is strongly encouraged on an Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers aware of of the accounting period and of the profit or loss for that 2004.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.0p per share paid on informal basis.
During the year consultative arrangements, including the terms of payment and agreeing such terms with their suppliers period.
Suitable accounting policies, consistently applied, 20 October 2003, this final dividend brings the total distribution for formal committees and team briefings, were used to consider and for each business transaction.
It is Group policy that payments to supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and the year to 15.5p per share 2002: 15.5p per share.
discuss employees views, to develop understanding of business suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
The Company is estimates, have been used in the preparation of the financial aims, to increase awareness of financial and economic factors Shareholders funds not a trading entity.
statements and applicable accounting standards have been affecting performance, and to improve effectiveness.
The Group has Shareholders funds increased from 527.9 million to 539.4 million Donations followed.
a European Works Council which meets at least once a year to at 31 December 2003.
323,000 was given during 2003 for community and similar The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate exchange views on trans-national issues facing the Group in the Principal activities purposes including 231,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the European Union.
During 2003 the Groups businesses were organised under the supports a range of selected national charities and smaller charitable Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable steps The Annual Report is available to all employees.
The company following main classes: Fluid Controls, Retail Dispense and Building organisations operating in communities where the Group has a for the prevention and detection of fraud and other operates an All Employee Share Ownership Plan covering all UK Products.
Subsidiary companies operating within these classes of presence.
A sizeable proportion of total donations went into irregularities.
employees of certain operations, under which an annual bonus business are listed on pages 74 and 75.
The turnover, profit and education including establishments in engineering and technology.
worth up to 3,000 can be awarded to employees in shares and Annual general meeting capital employed attributable to each of these classes of business In the arts, IMI is a founder patron of Symphony Hall, Birmingham, employees can invest their own money to acquire additional shares The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton are shown in note 1 on page 53.
Notwithstanding the disposals in and sponsors the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and the in a tax efficient manner.
A savings-related share option scheme, Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, 2002 of its Copper Tube and Copper Fittings businesses, the Birmingham Royal Ballet.
IMI also supports numerous community which is available to the majority of UK employees, has operated Birmingham on Friday 14 May 2004, commencing at noon.
Company retains responsibility in relation to the European art and welfare groups.
No donations to political parties were made since 1984.
An executive share option scheme, available to selected Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a Commissions investigations into the copper tube and fittings during the year.
executives, including executive directors, has operated since 1985 separate circular.
industries see note 27 on page 73. and a long term incentive plan for senior executives was introduced Directors Auditor in 2002. Review of activities The persons who were directors throughout the year were Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as A number of management development initiatives are co-ordinated The activities of the Group in 2003, together with indications of Mr G J Allen, Mr M J Lamb, Mr J W Leng, Mr R B Pointon, Mr T J Slack auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to across the Group, including the IMI Academy and senior talent likely future developments, are reviewed on pages 8 to 19.
Mr T M Gateley was appointed as a nondetermine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed at management programme.
The Group encourages its operating of acquisitions and disposals are given in notes 1 to 3 on pages 53 executive director on 1 November 2003 and Sir Chips Keswick was a the forthcoming annual general meeting.
units to train and develop employees at all levels and a wide range and 54. non-executive director until his retirement on 31 October 2003. of business-related education and training opportunities are made Changes in executive directors were announced in December 2003: By order of the Board Research and development available.
Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney joined the Board on 1 March John OShea Company Secretary Expenditure on research and development in the year was 28.0 It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in employment 2004 and Mr R B Pointon will retire on 31 March 2004.
8 March 2004 million compared with 28.0 million in 2002. consistent with the requirements of the countries in which the Under the Companys articles of association, Mr G J Allen and Share capital Group operates.
The policy extends to employees and applicants for Mr T J Slack retire by rotation and are recommended for re-election During the year 1,107,667 new ordinary shares were issued under employment and requires companies in the Group to eliminate at the annual general meeting to be held on 14 May 2004.
In employee share schemes: 959,767 under the all employee share discrimination and communicate and promote the policy to all addition, Mr T M Gateley, Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney will ownership and save as you earn plans and 147,900 under executive employees.
Chief executives of operating units have responsibility be standing for re-election at that meeting, being the first annual share options.
The Company has been notified of the following for complying with the policy and each employee is required to general meeting since they were appointed.
Biographical details substantial interests 3% or more in its issued share capital: participate in the policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that appear on page 28.
Mr G J Allen and Mr T M Gateley are applications for employment from disabled persons are fully and non-executive directors and do not have a service contract.
Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 4.12 % fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney are executive directors and Standard Life Investments 3.99 % opportunity in training and promotion.
As a matter of longstanding have service contracts terminable on one years notice.
policy, where appropriate, employees who become disabled have 30 Directors report IMI plc Annual Report 2003 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Standing committees of the Board Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its remuneration report on pages 36 to 44.
Each of these committees operate under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee were With effect from 1 January 2004 a new Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, became applicable to the revised in the light of the new Combined Code in December 2003.
Summaries and full copies of these new terms of reference appear on the Company.
The Board took steps towards compliance with the new Code during 2003 and expects to be able to report substantial Company website www.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
compliance in the 2004 Annual Report.
In anticipation of the new Code, a number of additional, voluntary disclosures are made below and in the Remuneration Report.
The Audit Committee was chaired by Mr B L Staples until 1 November 2003 when Mr T M Gateley was appointed as its chairman.
The two other independent non-executive directors are members of the Audit Committee.
Mr T M Gateley is qualified as a chartered accountant and The Board has significant relevant financial experience.
The committee met three times during the year and received reports from the external auditor During the year the Board comprised seven directors: the Chairman: Chief Executive: three independent non-executive directors: and two who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies executive directors.
Management changes announced in December 2003 resulted in the number of executive directors increasing from three and significant issues of judgement, internal financial controls, the proposed external audit approach and the independence and objectivity to four in March 2004 and the Board intends to balance this in due course through the appointment of an additional non-executive director.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the guidance for audit committees in the Smith There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reflected in a written statement approved by Report and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and plays a key role in the development of strategy but does not Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non audit work is monitored by the committee.
have any executive role or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and The committee also oversaw the development of an internal audit function through the establishment of the IMI Assurance Department.
The implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to re-appoint the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their meeting.
The committee regularly calls upon the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other personnel, including the Controller independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the new Combined Code and are regarded by the Board as and the Group Assurance Manager, to attend for parts of its meetings and report to the committee.
The committee approved the foregoing independent of the Groups executive management.
The Chairman, Mr G J Allen, was chief executive before he became non-executive report on its work.
Chairman on 11 May 2001 and is not regarded as independent.
The independent non-executive directors are from varied backgrounds and The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Sir Chips Keswick until 1 November 2003 when Mr J W Leng was appointed as its chairman.
bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Mr B L Staples succeeded Sir Chips The two other independent non-executive directors are members of the Remuneration Committee.
The committees main responsibilities are Keswick as the senior non-executive director after Sir Chips retirement in October 2003.
The Chairman has two other non-executive to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments directorships at publicly traded companies but does not chair the board of either.
Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 28. and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
In performance related elements of executive remuneration and pensions.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most addition, one third of the Board retire by rotation at each annual general meeting and each director stands for re-election at least once every senior level of management.
The committee met on three occasions during the year.
External consultants were engaged by the committee three years.
to provide advice and the Chairman and Chief Executive attended its meetings when required.
The Board provides leadership, direction and control for the business and corporate affairs of the Group and oversees business and The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, who chairs the Committee, the three independent non-executive directors and the management performance.
It has retained direct responsibility for matters not specifically delegated to the executive directors including Chief Executive.
The committee met on two occasions in 2003.
During the year the committee reviewed Board composition and made strategy and key areas of policy, major investment decisions and changes in the composition of the Group.
The Board reviews detailed nominations for appointments to executive and non-executive positions on the Board.
The committee nominated candidates for one nonbudgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial executive and two executive appointments.
In relation to the non-executive position, the committee received assistance from external and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group.
Where appropriate, senior executives from around the consultants and recommended the appointment of Mr T M Gateley, who joined the Board on 1 November 2003.
He was appointed on the Group are invited by the Board to attend meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to basis of a standard form of appointment letter for non-executive directors which had been reviewed and updated by the committee in the become engaged with management and there is regular communication between management and non-executive directors.
The Chairman light of the new Combined Code.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and made recommendations, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently were approved by the Board, concerning the composition and chairmanship of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, and in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board regarding the choice of a successor to the retiring senior independent non-executive director.
Candidates for the two executive positions operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Combined Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
were met by all members of the Board and the committee made the recommendations to the Board which led to the appointments of Mr D C Nicholas and Mr W R Whitney.
The committee approved the foregoing report on its work.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
Directors and officers insurance is held by the Company and details have been The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors.
It meets monthly and circulated to each director.
more often as may be required in order to monitor performance, review business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.
It also acts The Board normally meets formally six times a year and additional meetings were convened during the year for special purposes as the as the Risk Committee of the Board.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive need arose.
The non-executive directors met as a group with the Chairman on several occasions during the year.
From 2004, as part of his additional Investor relations responsibilities under the new Combined Code, the senior independent director will lead at least one such meeting in the absence of the Chairman and arrange performance evaluation in respect of the Chairman.
The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2003 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encourages debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2003 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the directors report for 2002.
A separate resolution for the approval of the remuneration report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2003 annual general meeting was despatched more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are made available upon request from the Company Secretary.
32 Corporate governance IMI plc Annual Report 2003 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Standing committees of the Board Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code and complied with its best practice provisions The standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its remuneration report on pages 36 to 44.
32 Corporate governance IMI plc Annual Report 2003 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Investor relations continued All operating units prepare forward plans annually which make projections for a period of three years.
These plans are reviewed in detail by executive directors and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with Cazenove & Co contact details are shown on page directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
In addition to the annual report, the Company publishes an interim report to shareholders and issues trading updates at the mid-year accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certified quarterly reports and in December.
The Company has its own website www.
com which includes recordings of certain key presentations made by are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance with Group standards.
There is also a central internal audit senior management, recent annual and interim reports, trading updates, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group function, IMI Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.
These include on site businesses.
reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Assurance Department and co-ordinated with the divisional financial The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Dialogue is maintained management review processes and external audit.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by Group finance personnel in conjunction with shareholders and the executive directors regularly meet with institutional investors.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have with the external auditor.
primary responsibility for investor relations and report to the Board at least quarterly in that connection.
In addition, financial analysts notes Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment are circulated to the Board and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee or the Board, as appropriate, according to their materiality.
The Chairman and senior independent non-executive director will meet with major shareholders upon request and otherwise if either of them considers appropriate.
In addition, the Executive Committee regularly reviews the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, ethical trading, taxation, insurance, legal and regulatory compliance.
Reports are Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation made to the Board at least annually and more often, as appropriate, to keep the Board informed and enable it to consider internal control A formal induction process for new directors has been in operation for several years.
It is overseen and kept up to date by the Chairman with issues and developments.
support from the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Mr J W Leng and Mr T M Gateley, who joined the Board in December 2002 and November 2003 respectively, went through their main induction programme during 2003.
During and after induction new directors are Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2003 and up to the encouraged to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
Appropriate coaching date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors.
risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A formal process for the evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors will be put into effect during 2004.
The Chairman will arrange such evaluations.
However, in evaluating the performance of the Chairman, the senior independent non-executive director will lead the process of assessment with the other non-executives.
Corporate social responsibility By order of the Board The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and sets a framework of relevant policies for the John OShea Group.
Through the Groups risk assessment processes key issues of corporate social responsibility are identified and addressed.
Company Secretary Following a review in 2003, the Company successfully met the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and was awarded 8 March 2004 membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
The Company was also selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 24 to 27 and on the Company website www.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control accords with the relevant guidance issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Committee Guidance.
Consistent with the Turnbull Committee Guidance, the Board has assigned responsibility for the continuous review of risk management and controls to the Executive Committee.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control including the nature and scope of external audit.
The committee also oversaw the development of an internal audit function through the establishment of the IMI Assurance Department.
Each operating unit is required to undertake a continuous process of business risk assessment and reporting.
This is reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and any major risk issues are referred to the Executive Committee at least quarterly.
The Executive Committee makes regular reports to the Board on major business risks faced by individual operations and by the Group and how it is proposed that those risks be managed.
Through this process business risks are identified, assessed and ranked according to their nature and urgency and the Board considers what measures would be appropriate in order to manage such risks.
The Board has clearly defined those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and the executive directors.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules and policies regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations.
34 Corporate governance IMI plc Annual Report 2003 35
