CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC remains committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Accordingly, throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, it has complied with the best practice governance provisions as set out in Section 1 of Part 2 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
In addition it is addressing actively those few issues where it does not yet fully meet the recent further governance provisions of the New Combined Code the New Code, which will formally apply to the Group only after 1 October 2004.
Corporate governance compliance The Board recognises it is accountable to the Groups shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and this statement, together with the Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated by the Code, are applied in practice within Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
During the course of the financial year there has been significant and continuing change in the way the Group manages its activities, arising principally from the acquisition and integration of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Reemtsma in May 2002.
Notwithstanding this change in the scale, geographic spread and management cultures, the Board has continued to keep under review the Groups whole system of internal control, encompassing not just financial but also operational controls, compliance and risk management.
Across the Group, formal procedures, blended with well established and embedded internal controls have been developed further over the course of the current year.
These measures, together with continuing regular, formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the significant areas of risk to achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Prior to the acquisition of Reemtsma, an extensive due diligence review covering financial, operational, legal and environmental matters was performed which led us to believe that the Company was well controlled and managed.
Further high level reviews of procedures to identify any requirements necessary to align more closely Reemtsmas policies and procedures with the Groups standards of corporate governance have since been undertaken such that the Board is satisfied that appropriate internal controls are now in place across the whole Group.
During January 2003 German authorities conducted a significant search of certain Group premises, including Reemtsmas headquarters in Hamburg, as part of wide-ranging investigations into alleged foreign trading and related violations by Reemtsma during a period prior to its acquisition by the Group.
As a result of their enquiries, a number of Reemtsma employees were named in search orders.
A Board Committee under the Chairmanship of Mr A G L Alexander was established to monitor on a regular basis the progress and conduct of the investigations and the Groups responses, on behalf of the Board.
From its review of the current operations of the Reemtsma businesses, the Committee is satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged by the authorities.
We continue to cooperate fully with the authorities.
Whilst the Group can confirm that no charges have been brought against these employees or Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH in relation to these investigations, since they could take several years to be concluded, the Board, in the interests of good corporate governance, required that the named employees be suspended on full pay for the duration of the investigations.
In the light of this, Mr M A Hussler, Sales & Marketing Director for the Group, one of the named employees, also tendered his resignation as a Director of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and from his position as Speaker of the Vorstand, the Board of Directors of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH.
Given that it could not be excluded that the investigations might eventually bring about a conflict of interest between Imperial Tobacco Group and Mr L W Staby, a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and formerly Chief Executive of Tchibo, the company from whom the Group acquired Reemtsma, the Board thought it appropriate that he step down and accordingly accepted his resignation in July 2003.
During the course of the year, more detailed business reviews of the Groups operations, performed as part of the Group Compliance Functions normal programme, identified certain relatively minor weaknesses and failures in systems of control at the location level.
From the resulting investigations into these matters, it has been concluded that neither individually nor collectively did they have a material impact on the results or performance of the Group for the year.
ITG 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board and Board Committees The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, which meets at least five times a year, currently comprises six Non-Executive Directors and five Executive Directors, with a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
Mr A G L Alexander is Vice Chairman and the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom any concerns can be conveyed.
All of the Non-Executive Directors, in the opinion of the Board, are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
During the year, and prior to their resignations, it should be noted that Mr M A Hussler and Mr L W Staby were excluded from those parts of Board and Board Committees meetings at which the progress of the German investigations was reviewed.
During the year Dr F A Rogerson was appointed to the Board as Corporate Affairs Director to reflect the importance of the fierce regulatory environment in which the Group now operates, while Mr D Cresswells appointment as Manufacturing Director underlines the significance of the Groups worldwide manufacturing and supply chain network and the risks and opportunities arising.
Both appointments were effective from 1 June 2003.
At the same time, to further formalise and enhance the process of control and management of the larger and more complex Group, the Chief Executives Committee comprising the then Executive Directors and certain senior executives, including the Managing Director International, the Director of Finance and Planning and Group Human Resources Director, was formed.
This is not only providing strong support to the Executive Directors but will also assist in the process of succession planning within the Groups enlarged pool of management talent.
Further to this, at the end of September it was announced that Mr B C Davidson would join the Board as Sales & Marketing Director, with responsibility for the Groups global sales and marketing activities across Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Australasia.
This appointment was effective from 1 October 2003.
Directors biographies, appearing on page 34, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry together with a range of business and financial experience, vital to the management of an expanding international company.
The full Board manages overall control of the Groups affairs by the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include responsibility for the Groups commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements, major acquisitions and disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury and risk management policies and succession plans for senior executives.
It also has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring strategies proposed for the development of the business are critically reviewed.
This ensures they act in the best long term interest of shareholders, take account of the wider community of interests represented by employees, customers and suppliers and that social, environmental and ethical issues are fully integrated into the Groups risk assessment processes.
The Board regularly reviews the strategy and operating results of the business, as well as approving annual budgets and medium-term plans.
Actual results of the Group are reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in the intervening periods.
This ensures the Board is supplied with information on the progress of the business in a timely manner.
Within the framework of the Chief Executives Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business control matters to the Chief Executive and Executive Directors who, with the executive management, are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business, including post event reviews of major projects.
They have full power to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the Groups standards and policy guidelines.
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through their membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
The membership and remit of each Committee is considered below.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, consisting exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, Mr D C Bonham, Mr S Huismans and Dr P H Jungels, meets at least twice a year under the chairmanship of Mr I J G Napier.
It is responsible for setting salaries, incentives and other benefit arrangements of the Executive Directors and senior management, and overseeing the Groups employee share schemes.
Members of the Remuneration Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
However, he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
ITG 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Since Listing in 1996, all increases in the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors have been taken in the form of the Companys shares, with the exception of the Chairman and Vice Chairman, where the requirement to reinvest fee increases net of tax was waived, following their increases in October 2002, given their continuing high level of investment in the Group.
With the increase in fees of other Non-Executive Directors from 1 October 2003 from 35,000 to 40,000, it has been agreed that the salary threshold after which their fees are required to be reinvested in shares of the Group be increased from 25,000 to 30,000.
The Remuneration Report, which outlines remuneration strategy and policy and includes full details of Directors emoluments, has been approved by the Board and appears in this years Annual Report and Accounts on page 45.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprising all the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive with Mr D C Bonham as chairman, meets when necessary to formulate succession plans and recommendations to the Board for the appointment of Directors.
New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The training needs in respect of new appointments to the Board are assessed and arrangements put in place, as appropriate.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, consisting exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr A G L Alexander and Mr I J G Napier, met under the chairmanship of Mr S P Duffy, three times during the year.
All of its members were qualified accountants, or have held senior finance positions in publicly quoted companies, and are therefore well qualified to discharge the responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails.
After the year end Dr P H Jungels was invited to join the Committee to replace Mr L W Staby who resigned during the year.
The Committees terms of reference cover the points recommended by the Code.
Its duties include monitoring internal control throughout the Group, approving the Groups accounting policies and reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the full Board.
It is also intended, in line with the New Code, that the Committee formally reviews all statements containing financial information and in particular, the requirement to review Form 20-F, prior to Board approval, is to be incorporated into the Committees annual programme.
The Committee also reviews and approves the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented by the Control and Compliance function and, as part of the annual assessment of the need for a formal internal audit function, critically reviews the resource allocated to this activity.
The Finance Director, other financial management and the Groups compliance manager attend by invitation.
The Groups Auditors also attend each meeting and have direct access to the Committee without the presence of any Executive Director, or manager, providing a direct line of communication between the Auditors and Non-Executive Directors.
An opportunity for the Groups compliance manager to meet formally with the Committee at least annually, without management being present, is also being arranged to meet the New Code requirements.
The Group has always maintained a policy of strict separation between the auditing and consultancy functions of its external Auditors.
However at the beginning of this financial year, in order to continue to meet best practice in the light of new regulations and legislation, the Group strengthened this policy with the introduction of a formal Auditor Independence policy document.
This provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors may and may not provide such that their independence and objectivity is not impaired, as well as establishing a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and preapproval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform.
The Audit Committee has also carried out six-monthly reviews of the remuneration received by  LLP for non-audit work, with the aim of seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance with this policy.
The fees for non-audit work have arisen principally as a result of tax advisory work associated with reorganisation of legal entities within the Group following the acquisition of Reemtsma, together with some due diligence activity.
The outcome of the reviews was that no conflict of interest exists between  LLP audit and non-audit work, and that this was the most cost effective way of conducting the Groups business.
In other situations, proposed assignments are subject to independent tendering and decisions taken on the basis of competence and cost effectiveness.
Internal control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent compliance function and external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives, by managing rather than eliminating risk.
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee which regularly reports its findings for consideration by the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control and confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year.
ITG 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk assessment: The Group clearly sets out its strategic objectives as part of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning, annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and forecasting cycles.
All areas of the business are required to undertake a risk profiling exercise to review formally their principal areas of risk so that all major risks are reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment reviews from each business unit for the measurement and assessment of risk areas, together with the controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such risks.
This review is ongoing throughout all the business operations of the Group, to ensure there continues to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk exposure so identified.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Regular reporting by the Control and Compliance function supports the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls at each business unit, through a programme of regular reviews.
In this way, it seeks to minimise the risks identified and satisfies itself that the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group.
Control environment and control activities: The Group consists of a number of manufacturing and trading operations each with its own management and control structures which satisfy the Groups accounting policies and local control responsibilities.
The Board continues to review the organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and segregation of duties, with staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted roles, remain in place.
These procedures for delegated authority ensure that decisions, significant either because of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
The full Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature which are required to be brought to it for decision.
Imperial Tobacco Group has a framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
Reemtsma also had a similar framework of procedures to which its employees were required to comply.
Since the acquisition, these existing policies and procedures which cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, an international marketing code, ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance, and health, safety and environmental issues, are being integrated.
A consolidated framework of policies and procedures is being issued with consistent communication being cascaded down throughout the enlarged Group by the end of 2003.
The Group has an established and consistent methodology for identifying and ranking business risks and has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include not only internal controls but other approaches, such as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies.
This methodology is reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure it continues to reflect accurately the relevant risks and takes into account necessary movements in the Groups risk profile consequent upon changes in the business operations.
There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including acquisitions.
The Groups treasury function operates within the defined policy designed to control the Groups financing arrangements and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through specialised treasury instruments.
ITG 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Information and communication: Operating companies are required to produce detailed operating budgets prior to the start of each financial year, which are reviewed for robustness and realism.
A comprehensive system of budgetary controls, including monthly and regular periodic performance reviews for each business unit, are in place to ensure that major variances are promptly and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews are conducted at a detailed level within each business unit and at a high level by the Executive Directors.
On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
Monitoring: A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal control in the Group.
These include self assessment of controls and annual certification of compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures including compliance with environmental, health and safety and business conduct standards by both the managing director or senior executive and the senior finance manager of each business unit and function, together with independent reviews by the Control and Compliance function.
The Control and Compliance functions responsibilities include reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, focusing on those areas with the greatest perceived risk to the Group.
This compliance programme is currently being developed further to review controls across key areas of risk annually to meet new US compliance legislation.
Follow-up procedures ensure there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls identified by reviews from the Control and Compliance function.
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the year ended 30 September 2003.
Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above, and review of the Groups financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Going concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pension fund Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board, but by Trustees, consisting of five nominees from the Company, one member chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Company and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension scheme funds can only be used in accordance with its rules and for no other purpose.
Communication with shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
The Groups Annual Review, a summary financial statement, provides shareholders with the material information concerning Imperial Tobacco Group in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders can also request the full report and Form 20-F. At the half year an Interim Report is published.
All of these documents are available on-line through the Imperial Tobacco website www.
com, together with all announcements, investor presentations and share price information.
During the year shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Group through trading statements and other announcements of significant developments that are released through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences.
This is being extended to ensure Non-Executive Directors on appointment also meet with major shareholders and that the Senior Non-Executive Director attends regular meetings with major investors.
Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
It is the Companys practice to make arrangements to send the Report and Accounts to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
The Company indicates the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed at its Annual General Meeting following each vote on a show of hands.
Details of abstentions are also disclosed.
ITG 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the balance sheet date and of the profit or loss and the cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors consider that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently.
They also confirm that reasonable judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2003 and that applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Auditors responsibilities Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs Registered Auditors,  LLP, are responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group as presented by the Directors, and for reporting their opinion to shareholders.
Their report is set out on page 57.
By order of the Board R. C. HANNAFORD, Company Secretary 17 November 2003 ITG 44
