26 Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require listed sufficient timely and accurate information to enable it to companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined discharge its duties.
Code 1998 the Code, how they have applied its principles and Newly appointed Directors who have not previously held whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the listed company board appointments receive appropriate external accounting period.
A brieng process has been developed for newly appointed This statement, together with the report on Directors Directors to ensure that they are properly apprised of the Groups remuneration on pages 28 to 34, explains how the Company has activities and strategic direction.
In addition the Company is applied the principles and complied with the provisions set out in developing a programme, which covers generic induction for new the Code.
Board members and arrangements for individual coaching and The Company is aware of the requirements introduced in annual best practice updates for the whole of the Board where the new Combined Code the New Code, which applies for appropriate.
These arrangements will continue to reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003. be provided by a combination of internal and external resources.
Some measures have already been taken, including changes The Company has retained the services of an independent in the membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination external adviser, Towers Perrin, to develop a performance evaluation Committees and the adoption of: new terms of reference for programme for the Board and its Committees.
The programme those Committees: terms and conditions for the appointment of will be operational during 2004.
Non-executive Directors: and the schedule of matters reserved All members of the Board have access to the services and for decision by the Board, all of which have been revised in light of advice of the Group Company Secretary.
Where appropriate, these documents are available Board committees on the Companys website.
The Company will continue to review The Board has three principal committees, all with written terms its compliance throughout 2004. of reference.
The Group Company Secretary serves as Secretary The Board to all three Committees.
The Chairmen of these Committees are The role of the Chairman is separate from that of the Group Chief expected to be available to answer questions at the AGM.
The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions Audit Committee to achieve overall Board, and individual Directors, effectiveness The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range whereas the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the of financial matters including the interim and year end accounts, operational implementation of the strategy and policies agreed litigation reports, matters relating to the external audit, corporate by the Board.
governance matters, the preservation and promotion of good Currently the Board has seven Non-executive Directors who ethical practices and monitoring the Groups internal controls.
bring to the Group a wide diversity of experience and expertise.
Part of the Committees responsibility in relation to external Five of the Non-executive Directors including the Chairman are auditors is to review the nature of their independence and the considered by the Board, in accordance with the Code, to be extent of the non-audit services that they provide.
independent of the management of the Group and free from any The members of the Committee during 2003 were Ken Hanna business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Chairman, Sir John Egan, Hugh Norton and Simon Robertson.
the exercise of their independent judgement.
Simon Robertson is They are all Non-executive Directors and are regarded as the senior independent Non-executive Director.
Trevor Taylor is the independent of the management of the Company in accordance Non-executive Deputy Chairman and a Non-executive Director.
The dates of their respective appointments are Trevor Taylor is not regarded as independent of the management given on page 22.
All members served on the Committee of the Group because he was formerly an Executive Director.
Raymond Chien is a Non-executive Director and is also not The participation of Sir John Egan on the Committee has regarded as independent because he previously had a service been reviewed in light of the provisions of the New Code.
While contract with Crown Motors Ltd, a subsidiary of the Company Sir John will continue to attend meetings, he ceased to be a incorporated in Hong Kong.
member of the Committee with effect from 29 January 2004.
Non-executive Directors have been appointed for an initial Michael Wemms, who joined the Board on 29 January 2004, period of three years, which may be extended by agreement with was appointed as a member of the Committee on that date.
With the exception of Michael Wemms, all Directors In light of Ken Hannas qualications as a Chartered currently on the Board have submitted themselves for election or Accountant and his experience with Coopers & Lybrand and re-election as applicable within the last three years, as required Compass Partners, the Board has determined that he has by the Companys Articles of Association.
Michael Wemms was recent and relevant financial experience.
appointed to the Board since the 2003 AGM and he will be The Committee held three scheduled meetings during seeking election at the 2004 AGM.
the year, an additional meeting having been introduced in light The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the of the New Code.
Group, and monitoring executive management.
It meets regularly The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the to deal with strategy and policy issues, to review the Groups Director of Audit and Risk Management and the external auditors financial performance and to examine significant acquisitions also attend meetings of the Committee.
The Non-executive and disposals and major operational capital expenditure.
Directors on the Committee have the opportunity at each meeting All Directors bring an independent judgement to bear on to review any issues with the external auditors and with the issues of strategy, performance, resources, including key Director of Audit and Risk Management without any other appointments, and standards of conduct.
In 2003 the Board had members of the executive management being present.
nine scheduled meetings, and a number of ad hoc meetings to Attendance of non-members is at the discretion and by deal with particular matters.
In addition, the Board held a strategy invitation of the Committee Chairman.
There is a procedure for Directors to take Remuneration Committee independent professional advice at the Companys expense The Remuneration Committee is responsible for remuneration where relevant to the execution of their duties.
The Board has issues regarding Executive Directors and certain other senior a formal schedule of matters required to be brought to it for its executives within the framework recommended by the decision.
The Board considers that it has been supplied with Committee and approved by the Board.
More details are given in the Board report on remuneration on pages 28 to 34.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 27 Nomination Committee that require improvement and reports back to the Audit The Nomination Committee is responsible for making Committee every six months, or more frequently if required.
recommendations to the Board on the selection and nomination The Group Chief Executive also reports to the Board, on of directors and their election or re-election as applicable behalf of executive management, significant changes in the at AGMs.
Groups business and the external environment in which it The members of the Committee are Sir John Egan operates.
In addition, the Group Finance Director provides Chairman, Peter Johnson, Ken Hanna, appointed on 26 February the Board with monthly financial information, which includes 2004, Hugh Norton and Simon Robertson.
Other than Ken Hanna, key performance and risk indicators.
all members served throughout the year.
The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee sets include the following: objective criteria and uses external advisers to facilitate the search Financial reportingThere is a comprehensive budgeting system process.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are then with an annual budget approved by the Directors.
Monthly actual considered on merit against those criteria.
The Committee also results are reviewed and reported against the budget and, satisfies itself that the selected candidate has enough time where appropriate, revised forecasts at each of the Boards available to devote to the appointment.
The Committee held two ad hoc meetings during the year to consider the election and re-election of Directors to the Monitoring systemsThe internal audit group reports to the Audit Board at the 2003 AGM, and to consider the appointment of Committee on its examination and evaluation of the adequacy Michael Wemms as a Non-executive Director in accordance and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
with the processes explained above.
The internal audit group also works closely with management and the external auditors, and significant issues are reported Communication with shareholders to the Audit Committee.
The Company encourages two way communication with its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all Operating unit controlsThe overall control framework for the queries received verbally or in writing.
The preliminary and interim Group is detailed in the Group Finance and Information Systems results are presented publicly to analysts and other meetings with manuals and supplemented by risk management policies.
shareholders are arranged as appropriate.
Compliance with Group policies and the effectiveness of internal The Company has an established Investor Relations controls are regularly assessed through the audit process and programme in the course of which the Group Chief Executive through a process of self certication, which requires business and the Group Finance Director have regular meetings with major unit management to assess annually the quality of internal shareholders to update them on the Companys progress and to controls in their businesses.
discuss any issues that investors may have.
Any issues arising Risk managementThe Groups management operates a risk at such meetings are reported and considered by the Board.
management process, which identies the key risks facing each In addition, the Companys stockbrokers, UBS, obtain shareholder business unit twice a year.
A risk register, which identies the key feedback on a condential basis from major investors following risks, the impact should they occur and actions being taken to the meetings and this is reported in summary and considered manage those risks to the desired level, is produced for each at Board meetings.
In addition, actions to be taken in the event that The Chairman wrote to major shareholders during the year such risks crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they advising them that he, the senior independent Non-executive are managed are also included.
This information is passed up the Director and the rest of the Board are available to meet organisation on a lter basis, culminating in the production of a shareholders.
Group Risk Register, which is approved by the Risk Committee Remuneration report and provided to and discussed with the Audit Committee.
The Companys policy on executive remuneration with details In addition, internal audit continuously reviews financial, of the Executive Directors salaries, annual bonuses, long term commercial and systems developments in the Groups business incentives and pensions, and fees for the Non-executive Directors units to ensure appropriate audit focus in the major risk areas.
appears in the Board report on remuneration on pages 28 to 34.
Investment appraisalThe Group has clearly dened policies for Internal control capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing appraisal and review procedures.
key procedures designed to achieve a sound system of internal The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal control control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can systems in operation during the financial year through the provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any processes set out above.
material mis-statement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to monitor and Auditors independence review internal controls, with its Chairman reporting the results The Company, through its Audit Committee, has reviewed a of such reviews to the Board.
In addition, the Board has entrusted report from its auditors,  LLP PwC, executive management with responsibility for implementing conrming, in their professional judgement, their independence.
The review included the audit, audit related, tax and consulting The Group operates a Risk Committee, which is chaired services provided by PwC, and compliance with the Group policy by the Group Chief Executive and includes inter alia, the Group introduced in 2002 which prescribes the types of engagements Finance Director, Group Company Secretary, Treasury Director, for which external auditors may be used.
The Company concluded Director of Audit and Risk Management and the Group Risk that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure Manager.
The Risk Committee meets quarterly to consider what the required level of independence.
changes to risk management and control processes should be Statement of compliance with the Combined Code recommended.
Its review covers matters such as responses to The Company was in compliance throughout the year ended significant risks that have been identied, output from monitoring 31 December 2003 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of processes, including internal audit reports, and changes to be the 1998 Combined Code.
made to the internal control system.
It also follows up on areas Inchcape plc Annual report 2003
