Corporate governance WE ARE COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND, ALONGSIDE REPORTING ON OUR GOVERNANCE PRACTICE IN TERMS OF THE REQUIREMENTS IN FORCE AT THE BEGINNING OF 2003, WE ALSO SET OUT HOW WE COMPLY WITH THE PRINCIPLES IN THE NEW CODE, AND HOW ANY SIGNIFICANT EXCEPTIONS WILL BE ADDRESSED.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued 2003 Mark Williamson was appointed as Chief Financial the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Officer and an Executive Director.
Peter Giller resigned as which applies to reporting years beginning on or after Deputy Chairman and as a Director on 31 December 2003.
We are committed to high standards On 1 January 2004, Steve Riley and Tony Concannon of corporate governance and, in addition to reporting on were appointed as Executive Directors.
The Board our governance practice in terms of the requirements for believes that it now has the skills and experience 2003, we also explain how we comply with the new code.
necessary to provide effective leadership and control of the Company.
The Board For the majority of 2003 the effectiveness of the Board The full Board met nine times during 2003.
Tony Isaac was underpinned by a balance between Executive and was unable to attend two of these meetings.
Whilst there is at present one Directors were in attendance on the relevant meeting more Executive Director than independent Non-Executive dates.
Meetings of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Company retains the Directors are also held without the Executive Directors casting vote.
The Board is currently seeking to recruit a being present.
During 2003, two such meetings took place.
The Board has also indicated The Non-Executive Directors intend to meet once a year that it intends to appoint an additional Executive Director without the Chairman present.
This meeting will be to head our US business in due course.
chaired by Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent NonIn accordance with the Combined Code and the Executive Director, and will include a review of the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors submit Chairmans performance.
themselves for re-election every three years and From January to 30 November 2003, the Board newly appointed Directors are subject to election by comprised the Chairman Sir Neville Simms : a shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Peter Giller : two after their appointment.
Arrangements are in place Executive Directors David Crane and Philip Cox and to ensure that newly appointed Directors receive a three Non-Executive Directors Tony Isaac, Jack Taylor comprehensive briefing on the Company, and training and Adri Baan.
Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent is provided for Directors on their roles and their legal Non-Executive Director.
The three Non-Executive obligations to ensure that they are fully conversant with Directors are considered to be independent.
Peter Giller their responsibilities as Directors.
In accordance with this was not considered to be independent because of his policy Tony Concannon, Steve Riley and Mark Williamson former role as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
have already attended a course arranged through the Institute of Directors.
On 30 November 2003, David Crane resigned as a Director.
On 11 December 2003 Philip Cox succeeded A programme of continuous training is provided for the him as Chief Executive Officer.
Directors are also kept informed of changes to the regulatory regime such as the revised Combined Code, new institutional investor guidelines and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
All of the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Below and left: EOP, Czech Republic also to external independent advice should they so wish.
Periodically the Board meets at the site of one of the Groups assets and briefings are also given at Board meetings on particular parts of the business, including regional and functional reviews.
annual report 2003 27 that the Board and its Committees worked effectively.
Operation of the Board The contribution by individual Directors to Board and The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, Committee meetings was considered to be high.
The ensuring the successful implementation of approved review did highlight the imbalance of the Board and, projects proposals and for the financial policies of the following the departure of David Crane, it was decided Group.
It maintains a schedule of all matters requiring to widen and strengthen the Executive Director team of specific Board approval.
Throughout 2003, this included the Company.
all strategy decisions and significant capital investment proposals.
The Board receives information on capital Chairman and Chief Executive Officer expenditure projects and investment proposals in advance There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of Board meetings, as well as management reports on of the Company between the roles of the Chairman and the operational and financial performance of the business.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership Financial performance is monitored on a monthly basis and effective operation of the Board, in terms of its and the overall performance of the Group is reviewed agenda, decision making and the utilisation of the skills against approved budgets.
At least once a year, the CEO and experience of the Directors.
He monitors, with the presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board for assistance of the Company Secretary, the information review and approval.
Each investment decision is provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, made in the context of this plan.
The Chairman is also The Board has established business values and standards responsible for ensuring that there is effective engagement for the Company, which provide a framework for the and communication with shareholders.
The CEO is Company to balance the interests of all its stakeholders responsible for the running of the Company, and leading in the conduct of its business.
The business values FIRST the executive and operational teams in implementing are set out at the front of this Annual Report.
The the strategies approved by the Board.
Companys Code of Business Conduct has been formally In addition to his role as Chairman of the Company, adopted by the Board and is set out on the Companys Sir Neville Simms is also Chairman of Carillion plc.
This code includes a whistle blowing procedure Board believes this does not compromise his role as and is in the process of being disseminated throughout Chairman of the Company.
Philip Cox is also a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton A questionnaire on Board performance is completed by plc.
His remuneration from this role is retained by him.
each Director and discussed with the Chairman and the His remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2003 Company Secretary.
The results of this questionnaire are was 28,000. discussed with the Board as a whole.
Overall these evaluations confirmed that the Directors considered Above: Coal delivery facility, Pego, Portugal Above: Marmara, Turkey 28 International Power Audit Committee, particularly in reviewing the role of Non-Executive Directors and their function the external auditors and internal control systems, it is Through membership of the Board Committees, the appropriate for the Chairman to be a member of this Non-Executive Directors have responsibilities for: ensuring Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman is Tony that systems of internal control and risk management are Isaac, who is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of appropriate and effective: evaluating the performance of Management Accountants and, before becoming Chief management in meeting targets and objectives: setting Executive of The BOC Group plc, was its Group Finance the remuneration of Executive Directors: the appointment Director.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the of Executive Directors: and senior management Committee.
During 2003 the Audit Committee met on succession planning.
Tony Isaac and Jack Taylor attended each of these meetings, whilst Adri Baan and Sir Neville Board Committees Simms attended three meetings each.
The Company has established the following committees: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Time is set aside for the Committee to meet the external the Appointments Committee.
No person other than the auditors without executive management present and Committee members is entitled to attend the meetings these sessions have been extended to include the head of these Committees, except at the invitation of the of the Groups internal audit function.
In addition to the Committee.
The full terms of reference for each members of the Committee, regular attendees at the Committee are available on the Companys website: Audit Committee meetings included representatives of www.
the external auditors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller Audit Committee and the head of Internal Audit.
The Committee is responsible for selecting and fixing the remuneration of the external auditors and reviewing the Remuneration Committee effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for monitoring also ensures policies and procedures are in place to the performance of the Executive Directors of the Company ensure that the external auditors remain independent.
against targets, and making recommendations to the In addition to reviewing the Groups accounts, results Board on remuneration.
announcements, risk management and accounting The Committee is comprised of all of the independent policies, the Committee monitors the effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors of the Company and the internal control systems for the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is Adri Baan.
monitors the work of the internal audit function and its The Human Resources Manager of International Power progress against the Groups annual internal audit plan, acts as secretary to the Committee.
Whilst the revised and also reviews reports from the external auditors.
Combined Code states that the Remuneration The Audit Committee is comprised of all the Committee should be comprised of independent nonindependent Non-Executive Directors of the Company executive directors only, the Board believes that given the and the Chairman.
Whilst the revised Combined Code importance of executive remuneration to the Company states that the Audit Committee should be comprised of and the Chairmans role in maintaining contact with its independent Non-Executive Directors only, the Board principal shareholders on Directors remuneration, it is believes that due to the importance of the role of the appropriate that the Chairman of the Company be a Our business values FIRST set out the ethical manner in which we operate throughout the world.
annual report 2003 29 member of the Committee.
During 2003 the Remuneration Relations with shareholders Committee met on four occasions.
Sir Neville Simms, The Board is accountable to shareholders for the Adri Baan and Jack Taylor attended each of these performance and activities of the Group.
International meetings whilst Tony Isaac attended two meetings.
Power ensures that its Annual General Meeting AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive Appointments Committee comprehensive information on all aspects of the Groups The Appointments Committee is responsible for matters business activities and to question senior management of management succession and the identification and about business issues and prospects.
The Committee is comprised of All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes the Chairman and all of the independent Non-Executive lodged for each resolution is reported at the AGM.
In line Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee with best practice, the Company aims to ensure that the is Sir Neville Simms.
The Human Resources Manager of Notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to International Power acts as secretary to the Committee.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
During 2003 the Committee met on three occasions.
Sir Neville Simms was in attendance at all three meetings, International Power also runs, within the terms of the whilst Adri Baan, Tony Isaac and Jack Taylor attended regulatory framework, frequent contact programmes two meetings each.
with industry analysts and institutional investors to discuss matters of strategy and financial performance.
Contact When reviewing candidates for the appointment of is made principally by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Executive Officer, the Appointments Committee Chief Financial Officer.
On issues of major importance, instructed Spencer Stuart, external search consultants.
the Chairman communicates with major shareholders.
The appointment of Philip Cox was made following full The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Tony evaluation of internal and external candidates, after taking Isaac is also available as an alternative point of contact into account their past experience, their personal if shareholders have concerns over the Chairmans achievements and other factors such as their knowledge performance or where contact with the Chairman would and experience of the global electricity industry and the be inappropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors do not business environment of International Power.
For the have any direct communications with institutional other executive positions filled in December 2003 and in investors, primarily to avoid potential confusion over January 2004, the Appointments Committee evaluated channels of communication.
At each Board meeting an the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required update is given on movements in major shareholdings for the business.
In appointing Mark Williamson, Steve and on contact programmes between the Executive Riley and Tony Concannon, the Committee was satisfied Directors and institutional shareholders.
Reports issued that the candidates knowledge of the Group and the by financial analysts on the Company are circulated to industry, and their past performance as senior managers, Board members.
These summaries and reports enable matched the skills and personal attributes necessary for the Directors to gain an understanding of the views and the roles.
opinions of those with an interest in the Company.
Above: SEA Gas pipeline, Australia 30 International Power All results presentations and stock exchange Any system of internal control is designed to manage, announcements are available to shareholders on rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Companys website, www.
The system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Accountability and audit financial misstatement or loss.
The principal features of the Groups systems of internal control are: The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of International Control environment Powers financial position and prospects, both to investors The Board encourages a culture of integrity and and regulatory authorities.
The Annual Report, preliminary, openness.
The Company has an organisation structure interim and quarterly results are the principal means of with clear lines of accountability and authority across its achieving this objective.
worldwide operations, supported by appropriate An explanation of the respective responsibilities of the reporting procedures.
Each of the regional businesses Directors and external auditors in connection with the is accountable to the Chief Executive and is managed financial statements is set out on page 61.
The Directors within the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities confirm on page 60 their view that the Group is a adopted by the Board.
Control procedures The Audit Committee approves all non-audit services Control procedures have been established in each of provided by the external auditor to ensure that the the Companys operations to safeguard the Groups objectivity and independence of the external auditor is assets from loss or misuse and to ensure appropriate not compromised.
In line with the requirements of the authorisation and recording of financial transactions.
Risk Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our procedures specify the services management procedures are in place for the Companys from which the external auditor is excluded and the operations, including its energy marketing and trading rigorous approval process for all other services.
activities, which are overseen by the Global Commodities Risk Committee, which comprises executive and senior Internal control management, and is chaired by the Global Risk Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the Groups system The Group treasury function operates under defined of internal control and for monitoring and reviewing policies and the oversight of the Treasury Committee, its effectiveness.
chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
All acquisition and investment decisions are subject to disciplined investment Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the appraisal processes.
Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
Above: Thai National Power Pluak Daeng, Thailand annual report 2003 31 Performance reporting and information Risk identification and management Corporate plan Executive management submits an There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating annual corporate plan to the Board for approval.
The plan and managing the key risks faced by the Company.
for each business unit is the quantified assessment of its Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, planned operating and financial performance for the next which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, and has financial year, together with strategic reviews for the responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the following four years.
Group management reviews the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing plans with each operational team.
The individual plans are significant risks, that appropriate control systems and based on key economic and financial assumptions and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual incorporate an assessment of the risk and sensitivities exposures are consistent with the Companys strategy underlying the projections.
Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
Performance monitoring Monthly performance and financial reports are produced for each business unit, with As part of the annual business planning process, the key comparisons to budget.
Reports are consolidated for overall risks associated with achievement of principal objectives review by executive management, together with forecasts are identified and their impact quantified.
During the year, for the profit and loss account and cash flow.
Detailed significant changes in the risk profile are highlighted reports are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
through the business performance reports.
The principal risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee, which provides Performance review Each business unit is subject to a reports to the Board and the Audit Committee.
performance review with Group management regularly during the year.
Actual results and forecasts for the year Energy marketing and trading are compared to budget.
Key operational and financial The objective of the Groups energy marketing and results are reviewed together with the risk profile and trading operations is to maximise the return from the business environment of the reporting unit.
purchase of fuel and the sale of the associated output.
Investment projects These are subject to formal review and For each of the businesses that operate in merchant authorisation procedures with designated levels of authority, energy markets, local risk committees have been established including a review by an investment appraisal committee to oversee the management of the market, operational and comprising the Executive Directors and senior managers.
credit risks arising from the marketing and trading activities.
Major projects are subject to Board review and approval.
The committees are made up of the Global and Local Risk Managers, Directors and senior managers.
Risk management is a key part of the annual planning process.
32 International Power The Group hedges its physical generating capacity by Business unit managers provide annual self-certification selling forward its electrical output, and purchasing its fuel statements of compliance with procedures.
These input, as and when commercially appropriate and within statements give assurance that controls are in operation approved control limits.
This is accomplished through a and confirm that programmes are in place to address any range of financial and physical products.
Our limited weaknesses in internal control.
The certification process proprietary trading operations use similar methods.
embraces all areas of material risk.
Internal Audit reviews the statements and reports any significant issues to the Energy market risk on our asset and proprietary Audit Committee.
portfolios is measured using various techniques including Value-at-risk VaR.
VaR is used where appropriate and Compliance with the Combined Code provides a fair estimate of the net losses or gains which During the year the service agreements for both David could be recognised on our portfolios over a certain Crane and Philip Cox contained a provision whereby if, period and given a certain probability: it does not provide before 31 December 2004, their service agreements an indication of actual results.
Scenario analyses are were terminated by reason of a change of control of the used to estimate the economic impact of sudden market Company, then their notice periods would be increased movements on the value of our portfolios.
This from 12 months to 24 months.
This provision was supplements the other techniques and methodologies agreed by the Remuneration and Appointments and captures additional market risks.
Committee upon the resignation of Peter Giller as CEO at the end of 2002 to provide security for the Executive Monitoring Directors in the event of a change of control.
David The Board reviews the effectiveness of established Cranes provision lapsed upon his resignation.
Philip Coxs internal controls through the Audit Committee which service agreement still has this provision in place.
However, receives reports from management, the Risk Committee, if no change of control takes place before 31 December the Groups internal audit function and the external 2004, then his notice period in the event of a change of auditors on the systems of internal control and risk control reverts to 12 months.
In all other respects, the Company has complied with the Internal Audit reviews the effectiveness of internal controls provisions of the Combined Code throughout the period and risk management through a work programme which is of the review.
based on the Companys objectives and risk profile and is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Findings are reported to operational and executive management, with periodic reporting to the Audit Committee.
Above: Rugeley, UK Left: KAPCO, Pakistan annual report 2003 33 Compliance with the revised Combined Code recommendations to the CEO, the CFO and the executive management on the adequacy of processes to The revised Combined Code applies to financial reporting permit the signing of certifications required by the Act.
years beginning on or after 1 November 2003: therefore the first reporting year to which the revised Combined In November 2003, the SEC approved changes to the Code applies for International Power is the year beginning listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE 1 January 2004.
The Board believes that it is broadly related to the corporate governance practices of listed compliant with the requirements of the revised Combined companies.
Under these rules, listed foreign private Code.
The Chairman, however, is a member of the Audit issuers, such as International Power, must disclose any and Remuneration Committees.
An explanation as to significant ways in which their corporate governance why the Company feels this is appropriate is provided practices differ from those followed by US domestic in the narrative above.
Other principal areas of variance companies under the NYSE listing standards.
There are with the revised Code requirements have already been no significant differences in the corporate governance outlined in the corporate governance report for 2003. practices undertaken by International Power as compared to those followed by US domestic companies under US corporate governance compliance the NYSE standards.
Under the terms of the NYSE rules, The Company has securities registered in the US and, Sir Neville Simms is deemed to be an independent as a result, it is required to comply with those provisions Director as all the payments he receives from the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as it applies Company are in respect of Directors fees and therefore to foreign issuers.
The Board continues to monitor the his membership of the Audit Committee, Remuneration new rules arising from the Act and arrangements are also Committee and Appointments Committee is in accordance being developed to ensure that the Company will be able with the requirements of the NYSE corporate governance to report on its systems of internal controls over financial rules.
The terms of reference of the Appointments reporting as required for year ended 31 December 2005.
Committee only relate to succession issues rather than corporate governance principles, which are currently As recommended by the US Securities and Exchange reserved to the Board as a whole.
Commission SEC, the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Company Secretary, the head of Internal Audit and representatives of the investor relations, finance and company secretariat departments.
The Committee meets regularly and is responsible for performing an oversight and advisory role in the disclosure process for the content and form of the annual report and Form 20-F.
The Committee makes We strive to play a positive role in the communities in which we operate they are one of our most important stakeholder groups.
Above and right: Milford, US 34 International Power
