Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance The authorities in the Board matrix are reviewed regularly and and has throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 complied any changes are approved by the Board.
The Board matrix is with The Combined Code annexed to the Listing Rules the Code.
communicated to all senior management to ensure that The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good throughout the Group it is known when Board approval is required.
corporate governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles of governance have been applied to There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman the Company.
and the Chief Executive Officer and they have been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
THE BOARD An effective Board is in place, which provides entrepreneurial The Board considers five Treves, DP Allvey and RE Sayers to be leadership and controls the Group.
The Board comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors.
W Hauser is not considered independent Non-Executive Chairman five Treves, the Chief to be independent under the provisions of the Code as he has a Executive Officer RC Nelson, one other Executive Director, two consultancy agreement with the Company, but the Board believes independent Non-Executive Directors and one other Non-Executive that nonetheless W Hauser brings valuable expertise to the Board Director.
The senior independent Director is DP Allvey.
The and exercises independent judgement in all decisions.
Directors biographies appear in the Annual Review on page 18.
To ensure that each Director increases his knowledge and becomes The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper more familiar with the Group, every year a conference is held, management of the Group.
A statement of the Directors attended by the Board and senior management from each division responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts is and geographic area, to discuss policy and strategy.
All Directors have a wide range of experience, Board also visited Hong Kong and China to tour some of the bringing independent judgement to bear in the interests of the Groups facilities and meet local management.
Company on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, and the Board has the appropriate range All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of skills, which is vital to the success of the Group.
Secretary who will assist in arranging any additional training as required.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
proper account of the interests of employees, customers and suppliers.
A new annual performance evaluation process has been established for each Director, Committee and the Board as a whole.
To enable them to do this, all Directors have full and timely access The first evaluation is due to take place towards the end of 2004. to all relevant information.
The Board papers are circulated a week before the Board meetings to ensure that Directors have the The Non-Executive Directors fulfill a vital role in corporate necessary time to read and review the papers.
The memberships of the three relevant Board identified a number of key areas that are subject to regular Committees are set out below.
reporting to the Board and this enables the performance of management to be reviewed and monitored.
There were ten board THE AUDIT COMMITTEE meetings in 2003 and in between meetings, there is frequent This Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive contact to develop the Companys business.
During 2003, all Directors, DP Allvey Chairman, RE Sayers and five Treves.
DP Allvey Directors were present at every Board meeting.
A Board matrix is in has recent and relevant financial experience as detailed in his place which formally outlines the matters specifically requiring the biography on page 18 of the Annual Review.
consent of the full Board and includes, inter alia, the approval of Group strategy, the annual budget, the Annual Report and The Committee has responsibility for, amongst other things, the Accounts, the Interim Report and related announcements, major planning and review of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts capital expenditure, the recommendation of dividends and the and the Interim Report and the involvement of the Groups auditors approval of treasury and risk management policies.
in that process, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the rules of the UK Listing The Board matrix also identifies areas where management can Authority and ensuring that an effective system of internal and risk give approval subject to certain financial limits.
Where any of the management controls is maintained.
activities involve amounts greater than the limits laid down for management approval they are referred to the full Board.
21 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
com Corporate governance The Groups auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial All the above Committees operate in accordance with the relevant Officer, Vice President Financial Control, Vice President Compliance terms of reference as approved by the Board.
Copies of the terms and the Head of Internal Audit, usually attend Committee of reference for each of these Committees are available on request meetings.
The Groups auditors meet with the members of the from the Secretariat Department at the registered office or can be Audit Committee alone at least once a year.
The Audit Committee downloaded from www.
seeks to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors and in this regard, monitors the level of non audit INTERNAL CONTROL work undertaken for the Group.
A breakdown of the audit and non The Directors are ultimately responsible for establishing and audit fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year is set out in maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for note 3 to the financial statements.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against Report and Accounts and the Interim Report remains with the material mis-statement or loss.
During 2003, the Audit Committee met four times and all members were present at every meeting.
The Board can confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Groups short and long term value, including those arising from This Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process has been in Directors, DP Allvey Chairman, RE Sayers and five Treves.
The place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of Committee has responsibility for making recommendations the Annual Report and Accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the to the Board on the Groups policy for the remuneration of Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
No material the Executive Directors and senior executives and for the breaches of any such policies were identified during the year.
In determination, within agreed terms of reference, of additional carrying out the risk review the Board is satisfied that it received benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including pension adequate information from operations around the world.
Training rights and any compensation for loss of office.
The Committee is is provided to Directors on these matters where necessary.
also responsible for the implementation and operation of employee share schemes.
During 2003, the Remuneration Committee met The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system seven times and all members were present at every meeting.
In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying and evaluating the THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE significant risks affecting the business and the policies and This Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive procedures by which these risks are managed.
This has been Directors, five Treves Chairman, DP Allvey and RE Sayers.
This reinforced by the adoption of a Code of Ethical Business Conduct, Committee, which normally meets at least once a year, nominates approved by the Board, which provides practical guidance and candidates to fill board vacancies, reviews succession planning and instruction for staff.
A copy of this Code is available on makes recommendations to the Board on the balance and www.
The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in composition of the Board.
The Committee will appoint an external regard to breaches of ethics and employees are required to sign a search firm when considering new possible candidates to act as certificate confirming their understanding that any breaches of the Directors to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent appointment Groups code of ethics will result in disciplinary action that may process.
include dismissal of the employee concerned.
To support Group policies there is an independent e-mail and telephone hotline so A job description is prepared for any new Board position and when that staff may report anonymously any inaccurate or unethical a NonExecutive Director is appointed, the Committee will ensure working practices.
The telephone hotline is managed by an that he or she has confirmed that they have sufficient time to fulfill independent third party.
the commitments of the role.
A formal induction programme has been established for new Directors and this will be tailored In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee endeavours to to suit the individual.
All new Directors are subject to election ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and by shareholders at the first annual general meeting after their effective controls, checks, systems and risk management appointment and then are subject to re-election by shareholders techniques so as to be in line with best practice on such matters.
Each operating division is responsible for the identification and The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the evaluation of significant risks applicable to that area of business Remuneration report.
22 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 together with the design and operation of suitable internal impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be monthly financial information, which includes the comparison of associated with a variety of internal or external sources including the key performance figures against budget and forecasts, risk control breakdowns, disruption of information systems, indicators and compliance with covenants.
Where areas for competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical reporting Committee.
The Board approves the treasury policy and that has been established which provides a documented trail of departments activities are also subject to internal audit.
These procedures are applied across Group operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS increasingly higher levels of management and finally, to the Board.
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides a Company produces an Annual Review which is sent to shareholders degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system together with the Annual Report and Accounts.
At the half year, of internal control.
Planned corrective actions are independently an Interim Report is published.
The Company also has a website monitored for timely completion.
com which contains up to date information on the Groups activities and published financial results.
Each division reports annually to the Audit Committee via the Vice Shareholders can subscribe via the Investor Relations section of President Compliance on its review of risks and how they are www.
com to receive e-mail alerts of important managed.
The Audit Committees main role is to review, on behalf announcements made by the company.
of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary to ensure such risks are properly managed.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations after the Companys Preliminary Announcement of The Vice President Compliance heads a central compliance team, the year end results and at the half year.
Any feedback from the which co-ordinates the quality assurance function, internal audit institutional shareholders is provided to the Board.
The Chairman, and claims management.
Quality assurance audits are carried Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors out by the divisions and the findings reported to divisional have also attended meetings with institutional shareholders during management and to centrally controlled compliance officers who the year.
report to the Vice President Compliance.
Each division has at least one dedicated compliance officer who undertakes investigations of The Board views the Annual General Meeting as a valuable issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or by other opportunity to communicate with private and institutional investors means such as the employee hotline.
Reports of significant findings and welcomes their participation.
All Board members attend the are presented to the Audit Committee.
Each geographic region has Annual General Meeting and in particular, the Chairmen of the an internal auditor who is independent of the divisions.
The main Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to reporting sites are reviewed annually.
The other sites are all answer questions.
reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality and risk.
Reports of significant findings are presented to the Audit GOING CONCERN Committee and it monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation internal audit function.
The international internal audit department that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for has been awarded ISO 9001: 2000 accreditation, one of the few the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the internal audit teams in the UK to have achieved this standard.
going concern basis in preparing the Groups Accounts.
The Group has implemented internal audit systems to facilitate CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY compliance with applicable requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act Practices Act FCPA, the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC ethically in relation to the physical and social environment in which and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development it operates and that failure to do so could adversely impact on the OECD and similar laws and regulations affecting conduct of Groups long and short term value, as a result of financial penalty its business.
and loss of customer support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously paying due regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures, ensuring The Group provides equal opportunity for its entire staff irrespective that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of of their ethnic or religious background, age, sex, sexual orientation assurance required by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant Appropriate health and safety measures have been established and changes in the business and the external environment, which could are operated throughout the Group.
Local compliance officers keep 23 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 www.
com Corporate governance the operation of such measures under regular review.
Any incidents are investigated by a central team of specialists, which makes recommendations to avoid a repetition.
The Group actively seeks to provide good employment opportunities and conditions for all staff and it is part of the corporate culture to hire, train and develop employees and managers from local communities.
No use is made of live animals in any of the tests carried out by the Group.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS There can be the potential for an environmental impact associated with various parts of the business.
The Group, however, is committed to preventing any adverse impact on the environment as a result of its operations.
The Groups worldwide risk management team is tasked with identifying all such potential risks and introducing procedures to prevent such an occurrence.
Use is also made of a third party to carry out a triennial global environmental survey of all group operations to determine whether procedures are being properly implemented and to advise on further precautionary measures.
A policy of zero tolerance for noncompliance with such procedures is enforced and regular checks are carried out to ensure compliance.
In certain cases the Group occupies facilities where pollution occurred prior to the Groups use of the site.
In each case the Group has implemented remedial works, on the advice of third party specialists, to minimise further damage to the environment.
NEW COMBINED CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Higgs Report was published in January 2003, which led to the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Revised Code issued in July 2003.
The Revised Code will apply for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board has reviewed the Revised Code and believes that most of the principles and provisions of good corporate governance contained therein have already been adopted by the Company and are reflected in this statement.
The Company will report formally its compliance with the Revised Code in its Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 December 2004.
24 Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
