Corporate governance Principles attend meetings of the Committee.
On occasions, the other The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate non-executive directors attend meetings of the Committee to obtain governance.
Throughout the year, Invensys has been in full a fuller briefing on significant issues and this forum is particularly compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code appended to valuable in providing a direct line of communication between the the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Code.
The following external auditors and the non-executive directors.
describes how the Principles set out in the Code have been applied.
The Audit Committee reviews the work undertaken by the external auditors going beyond the scope of the audit itself in order to ensure The Board that the independence of the auditors is not impaired.
This review The Board currently has ten members, comprising eight non-executive covers the nature of the work, the method of appointment and the directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors.
This work generally falls into two categories as follows: There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which ensures that there is a balance of power Audit and assurance: this includes work that in their role as auditor and authority.
All the non-executive directors are regarded as they are best placed to undertake.
This comprises formal reporting independent.
Mr Rolf Brjesson is the Senior Independent Director.
and other work related to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, Biographies of all the directors are presented on page 17.
As can be various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and seen, they have a wide range of international business and financial disposals: and experience relevant to the direction of a global company.
Taxation: the auditors are used in cases where they are best suited, Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the such as tax provision and statutory work.
Other significant tax operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is advisory projects are put out to competitive tender.
particularly important in ensuring that the strategies proposed by In 2000, Ernst & Young disposed of its management consulting the executive management team are fully discussed and examined business and as a result the auditors do not carry out such work for to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of shareholders and the Group.
The payments made to Ernst & Young LLP are detailed in also take account of issues affecting employees, customers, suppliers note 4 on page 41. and the many communities in which Invensys conducts its business.
The Audit Committee also reviews the work undertaken by the Risk The Board meets at least eight times during the course of a year with Committee and by Group Internal Audit as described in more detail additional meetings convened as necessary: in the financial year under in the section of this report dealing with internal control.
review, the Board met on nine occasions.
It is exceptional for any director to be absent from any meeting.
There is a formal schedule The Remuneration Committees constitution and role are of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that includes all described in the Boards Remuneration report on page 22. major strategic and financial decisions: other decision-making is Communication with shareholders delegated through structured procedures to committees and senior Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a management.
To enable the Board to perform its duties, all directors number of means are used to promote greater understanding and have full and timely access to all relevant information.
Each director dialogue with investment audiences.
is required to retire by rotation no later than the third annual general meeting following their appointment or re-appointment.
The summary financial statement provides shareholders with the material information concerning Invensys in a form more readily The Board Committees assimilated than the full annual report and accounts.
Shareholders The Board has three standing committees: can also request the full report.
At the half year an interim report is The Nominating Committee is responsible for monitoring the published.
All of these documents are available online through the performance of directors, reviewing induction and training Invensys website www.
com, together with details of all requirements for individual directors and or the Board as a whole announcements, investor presentations and share price information.
and making recommendations to the Board for the appointment During the year, shareholders are kept informed of the progress of or re-appointment and removal of directors.
Its current members the Company through trading statements and other announcements are: Lord Marshall who chairs the Committee, Sir Philip Beck of significant developments that are released through the London and Mr Martin Jay.
Mr Robert Bauman until 24 July 2002 and Stock Exchange and other news services.
There is regular dialogue Sir Graham Hearne 14 June 2002 to 31 March 2003 also served with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences.
on the Committee during the year.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company at The Audit Committee is composed of three independent any time of the year through a facility on the website.
non-executive directors: Mr Andrew Macfarlane Chairman of the Additionally, there is an opportunity at the annual general meeting Committee from 1 April 2003, Mr Rolf Brjesson and Mr Larry for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the Farmer.
Sir Graham Hearne was Chairman of the Committee from chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominating Committees.
1 ApriI 2002 until his retirement on 31 March 2003.
It meets at least The report and accounts are sent to shareholders at least 20 three times a year to review the published financial information and working days prior to the annual general meeting.
The results of the effectiveness of both external and internal audit and of the Groups all polls held at general meetings are announced to the London internal controls and risk management procedures.
auditors normally attend all the meetings and there is a meeting at least once a year between the Committee and the external auditors at which management is not present.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regularly 18 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Internal control Operating controls Controls are detailed in formal procedures, In accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control, instructions and manuals and compliance is verified by the Groups the Board reports on its reviews of internal control which includes internal auditors and, to the extent necessary to form their opinion consideration of the effectiveness of identification, evaluation and on the truth and fairness of the annual accounts, by the external management of all significant risks affecting Invensys.
Senior managers are required annually to certify compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures and controls, The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal including environmental and health and safety matters, and in relation control.
Each division is individually accountable to the Chief to compliance with the Groups legal and ethical conduct policy.
Executive and is managed by a Chief Operating Officer who, with his senior management team, provides day-to-day control over the Internal audit The scope of the internal audit function divisions operations within the strategic guidelines and delegated encompasses the examination and evaluation of the adequacy and authorities adopted by the Board.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal financial control and the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities, The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups reporting to the Audit Committee as necessary.
particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed but it should be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control is, Audit Committee and Main Board review of Internal Control it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Audit Committee reviews reports from internal and external material misstatement or loss.
In the following paragraphs the auditors, executive management and the Risk Committee to obtain directors consider the key components of the Groups system of reasonable assurance that appropriate control procedures are in internal control and the process by which they have reviewed the place and being adhered to and reports on all these matters to the effectiveness of such controls.
The Board is satisfied that the information that it has received for its annual review and throughout the year together Overall strategy on risk and control The Risk Committee with the procedural framework that is in place are sufficient to comprises the Chief Financial Officer chairman, the Chief Executive, enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of the General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group internal control in accordance with the Guidance for Directors Treasurer, the Vice President Risk Management, the Director of on Internal Control.
Internal Audit, the Vice President Litigation and the Company Secretary.
Its principal purpose is to provide further assurance to the Sustainability and social, environmental and ethical matters Audit Committee and the Board.
During the year, its activities have The Board attaches high importance to sustainable development included reviewing the Groups risk framework and its monitoring and the Invensys Intent that is the foundation of our corporate functions and assessing all major risks together with their related behaviour as described on pages 13 to 16.
The risks inherent in risk management responses and, where appropriate, corrective these matters are assessed as part of the Groups overall risk programmes.
The risk management strategy is determined and management processes described above.
Accordingly, the Board, monitored by the Board with the objective of setting clear guidelines through the Audit and Risk Committees, receives regular information in relation to the levels of retained risk acceptable to the Group.
and reports to enable it to make appropriate assessments in these Procedures for the Group-wide assessment of all business risks are areas.
Performance management, incentivisation and training subject to continuous review, monitoring and improvement.
procedures are being continuously developed so as to reflect more fully the Invensys Intent.
The processes required to achieve Risk management The internal risk management function reports appropriate assurance and verification across all aspects of these to the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for assessing the matters continue to be developed and it is the policy of Invensys that Groups exposure to risk in areas such as product liability, for making over time its success in meeting the Invensys Intent should be appropriate policy recommendations to the Board and for monitoring increasingly measurable and transparent.
compliance with policies adopted by the Board.
Responsibility for health, safety, the environment and property rests with the Senior Vice President Human Resources and Group Services, who reports to the Chief Executive.
More details regarding this area are included on pages 13 to 16.
The legal function, which reports to the Chief Executive, also monitors and acts on specific legal issues, legal claims and litigation.
19 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
