30 SECTION EIGHT PAGE THIRTY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT the Board supports the highest standards in corporate governance and seeks to apply recommended best practice where this is appropriate 31 Corporate Governance philosophy The Board acknowledges that the and approach Group operates in a rapidly developing business environment.
Changes to the The iSOFT Group is committed to risk profiles in the business environment business integrity, high ethical values arise as a result of both external and professionalism in all its activities.
challenges, in a highly competitive and As an essential part of this politically driven market place and commitment, the Board of directors through internal challenges including supports the highest standards in the growth in the size of the business corporate governance and seeks to and the development of new products, apply recommended best practice management systems and procedures.
where this is appropriate for the Group.
These challenges also manifest themselves in greater detail as risks to the success of the Groups financial, operational and compliance activities.
As a result, the Board of directors is diligent in evaluating and prioritising each risk and in determining appropriate systems and controls to detect and address them on an on-going basis.
By doing so, the Board believes that an effective mechanism for continual improvement in threat mitigation and opportunity management is being adopted.
The Board of directors The Group is controlled by the Board of directors which, at 30 April 2003 comprised the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two further executive directors and four experienced non-executive directors, three of whom were independent for the duration of the year.
Biographical details of each director are set out on page 26.
Each non-executive director is encouraged to contribute to both the full Board and its committees as appropriate.
The Board of directors met eight times during the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT SECTION EIGHT PAGE THIRTY ONE 32 During the year the Board comprised: Statement of directors roles monitoring the effectiveness of the Chief Executive Officer and his With the objective of ensuring Executive directors executive team against a series successful creation of shareholder value Roger Dickens of performance objectives within a framework of acceptable risk, Executive Chairman and benchmarks: the Board sees its role to include: Meetings attended: 8 setting a control framework within assisting value creation through Patrick Cryne which the Chief Executive Officer can entrepreneurial leadership and by the Chief Executive Officer operate, and authorising his decisions controlled and measured Meetings attended: 7 on major issues and investments: management of a wide range of Tim Whiston business risks: constituting subcommittees of the Group Finance Director and Board to address the issues of deciding the strategic direction and Company Secretary remuneration, appointments and providing the resources required to Meetings attended: 8 audit: and fulfil the future needs of the business: Steve Graham providing open disclosure in respect representing the interests of Chief Operating Officer of the remuneration of executive shareholders and satisfying all Meetings attended: 8 directors and senior members of staff statutory duties due to them: in order to incentivise other staff.
Non-executive directors ensuring appropriate behaviour with Digby Jones The Board believes that its style of respect to the various codes of Senior non-executive director involvement with management through corporate governance and good Meetings attended: 6 the Chief Executive Officer and the business practices and by providing executive directors is the most effective an audit trail of accountability: Eurfyl ap Gwilym way to provide confidence in the control Non-executive director and Chairman overseeing good corporate environment of the Group.
Through of Audit Committee citizenship and ethical behaviour openness, the provision of well-defined Meetings attended: 8 by the Group and its employees information and discussion, the Board with regard to all its internal and endeavours to understand and provide Geoff White external stakeholders: leadership as to the willingness of the Non-executive director and Chairman Group to take appropriate risks in the of Appointments and Remuneration providing a challenging confidential interests of the shareholders.
Committee forum, free from conflicts, in which Meetings attended: 8 the Chief Executive Officer can test strategic thinking with an informed Rene Kern group having broad continuity Non-executive director over time: Meetings attended: 0 requiring the Chief Executive Officer Graham Wilson to report openly on the operational Resigned 5 July 2002. performance of all parts of the Group: SECTION EIGHT PAGE THIRTY TWO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT regular dialogue is maintained to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and consistent view of the Groups performance 33 Statement of directors' responsibilities The directors are responsible for Appointments to the Board for the financial statements keeping proper accounting records Each member of the Board brings which disclose with reasonable Company law in the United Kingdom different experience and skills to the accuracy at any time the financial requires the directors to prepare operation of the Board and its various position of the company and enable financial statements for each financial committees.
The Board composition is them to ensure that the financial year which give a true and fair view of kept under review and when a new statements comply with the Companies the state of affairs of the Company and appointment is to be made, Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the Group and of the profit or loss of consideration is given to the particular safeguarding the assets of the company the Group for that period.
In preparing skills, knowledge and experience that a and hence for taking reasonable steps those financial statements, the directors potential new member could add to the for the prevention and detection of are required to: existing board composition.
Comprehensive, formal and tailored select suitable accounting policies induction is provided to new Board The Annual Report is available on the and then apply them consistently: members.
The Group has long Groups website www.
make judgments and estimates that recognised the vital role that The maintenance and integrity of the are reasonable and prudent: non-executive directors have in Group's website is the responsibility of ensuring high governance standards the directors.
The work carried out by state whether applicable United and maintains a significant the auditors does not involve Kingdom accounting standards have non-executive element of high calibre.
consideration of these matters and, been followed, subject to any material accordingly, the auditors accept no departures disclosed and explained in In keeping with this commitment, responsibility for any changes that may the financial statements: and Rene Kern was appointed as a have occurred to the information non-executive director to the Board on prepare the financial statements on contained in the financial statements 14 March 2003.
Rene Kern is a senior the going concern basis unless it is since they were initially presented on executive with General Atlantic Partners inappropriate to presume that the the website.
who owned 12.8% of the shares of company will continue in business.
iSOFT Group plc at the balance Legislation in the United Kingdom sheet date.
governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT SECTION EIGHT PAGE THIRTY THREE 34 Information and professional Performance evaluation The Chief Executive Officer and Group development Finance Director are also available to The Board monitors performance meet principal shareholders on request.
The directors have implemented against the achievement of the Groups All shareholders are welcomed to the appropriate reporting procedures to strategic objectives.
Each executive Annual General Meeting to put ensure that they are supplied with director has defined responsibilities for questions to the Board of directors.
timely, accurate and comprehensive performance and measurement of Communication is also provided information to enable the Board to achievement includes a mix of financial through the Annual Report and the discharge its duties in full.
Existing and non-financial, together with Interim Report and the Group has Board members have many years of predictive and historic indicators.
established an investor relations facility relevant experience, all are responsible All directors are required to submit on its website, on which up to date for ensuring continuing professional themselves for re-election at regular financial and other information development to maintain up to date intervals and at least every three years, is available.
and effective skills and knowledge.
The directors have access to seek Internal control Board committees independent advice, at the Groups The Board retains full responsibility for The Audit Committee and the expense, if necessary for the proper the Groups system of internal controls Appointments and Remuneration performance of their duties.
The which operate on a global basis, and for Committee deal with specific aspects of directors also have access to the reviewing its effectiveness.
However, the Groups affairs in accordance with Company Secretary for his advice such a system is designed to manage their written terms of reference.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure are comprised of only the three to achieve business objectives and can, independent non-executive directors.
therefore, provide only reasonable and The non-executive directors also met not absolute assurance against material once during the period without the misstatement or loss.
In accordance Executive Chairman or other executive with the Combined Code, the directors directors present.
The Appointments review continually the effectiveness of and Remuneration Committee Report is the Groups system of internal controls, set out on pages 37 to 41 and the including financial, operational, Audit Committee Report is provided compliance and risk management.
In addition, and in support of the Relations with shareholders statement of compliance published The Group values the views of herein, the Board commissioned an shareholders and recognises their annual external assessment of the interests in the Groups strategy and Groups system of internal control.
A regular dialogue with The findings are communicated to all fund managers, other investors and staff thereby embedding risk awareness analysts is maintained, primarily across the Group.
following the announcement of interim and preliminary results, to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and consistent view of the Groups performance.
SECTION EIGHT PAGE THIRTY FOUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT the directors review continually the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management 35 Key elements of the Groups internal on-going review of contractual Going concern controls are: agreements with existing and The directors are satisfied that the new customers: Group has adequate resources to a clearly defined management continue in operational existence for structure and delegation of authority monthly monitoring and the foreseeable future, a period of not to committees of the Board, heads re-forecasting of results against less than twelve months from the date of departments and individual budget, with investigation and action of this report.
For this reason, they business units: taken in response to variances: continue to adopt the going concern clearly documented internal regular internal audits of key basis in preparing the financial procedures set out in the Groups processes and procedures under the statements.
The directors have ISO 9001:2000 accredited quality Groups ISO 9001:2000 accredited satisfied themselves that the Group management manual: quality management process: and is in a sound financial position and that sufficient cash resources will high recruitment standards together an internal quality audit function be available to meet foreseeable with formal career development and which consists of two full time and investment opportunities or other training to ensure the integrity and twenty eight part time members.
competence of staff: During the year, the Group introduced a regular and comprehensive dedicated internal quality audit function, information provided to management, consistent with the Groups growth and covering financial performance and development.
In February 2003 the key performance indicators, including Group successfully secured non-financial measures: ISO 9001:2000 accreditation.
Digby Jones a detailed budgeting process and A comprehensive programme of internal Senior non-executive director rolling three year strategic plans quality audits is defined in advance of which are approved by the Board: each financial year.
The Board considers the structure and remit of the procedures for the approval of internal quality audit function to be capital expenditure and investment appropriate given the size of the Group, and acquisition projects: and the close involvement of directors and senior management in day-to-day operations.
Any future requirement for an increase in the size or scope of the internal quality audit function will continue to be reviewed on an ongoing basis as the Group develops.
Compliance with the Combined Code The directors believe that the Group has complied in all material requirements of the Combined Code as annexed to the Financial Service Authoritys Listing Rules throughout the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT SECTION EIGHT PAGE THIRTY FIVE
