42 SECTION NINE PAGE FORTY TWO AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT the Audit Committee was pleased to see the Group receive the ISO 9001:2000 quality accreditation in the year 43 Role of the Audit Committee The Committee met twice during the External auditors year with the Group Finance Director The Audit Committee the Committee The Audit Committee also reviews and the external auditors.
In addition, is responsible for making annually the performance of the Groups the Committee also met with the recommendations on the appointment external auditors to ensure that an external auditors without the executive of external auditors, the level of the objective, professional and directors being present.
The three audit fee and for ensuring their cost-effective relationship is maintained.
members of the Committee attended independence.
The Committee reviews The Audit Committee is also all the meetings held during the year.
proposed results publications and the responsible for monitoring non-audit Details of the remuneration of the effectiveness of internal controls.
fees paid to the external auditors to members of the Committee are ensure that no conflicts of interest arise.
Audit Committee membership set out on page 39 of the and meetings The Committee has reviewed the Remuneration Report.
non-audit fees paid to the external The Audit Committee is chaired by Financial statements, internal auditors and has deemed that in the Eurfyl ap Gwilym.
Other members of financial controls and risk year ended 30 April 2003 they do not the committee are Digby Jones and management systems affect independence.
All members of the The Committee meets to review the Committee is informed of all material Committee are independent Groups annual and interim financial non-audit work commissioned from the non-executive directors.
Other statements, internal management external auditors in advance of such directors are invited to Audit Committee arrangements, accounting policies and work being undertaken.
The external Internal audit function auditors attended all meetings and have The Committee is responsible for had direct access to the Committee considering the need for an internal throughout the year.
audit function on an annual basis.
The Board commissioned a review of The Audit Committee was pleased to the risk management processes in see the Group receive the place during the year.
The review was ISO 9001:2000 quality accreditation conducted by RSM Robson Rhodes in the year.
Compliance with quality LLP and conclusions were reported processes is overseen by the quality directly to the Audit Committee.
findings of the review are summarised in the Corporate Governance report At this stage in the Companys included within this annual report.
development, the Audit Committee is satisfied that a separate, independent internal financial audit function is not required.
This decision will be reviewed on a continuing basis as the size and complexity of the Group changes.
Eurfyl ap Gwilym Chairman of the Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT SECTION NINE PAGE FORTY THREE
