Statement of corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Group Chief Executives membership of the Nomination governance in its business and has complied throughout the Committee.
period under review with all the provisions of the Combined The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This statement, Its responsibilities include making recommendations on the together with the Remuneration Report, explains how the Companys accounting and reporting policies, reviewing the Company has applied the governance principles of the Code.
scope and results of both internal and external audits and The Board defining and monitoring internal financial control.
It also The Board comprises five Executive Directors and six reviews the performance, independence and objectivity of the Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors auditors.
The Committee receives regular reports from the are set out in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Group Internal Audit Department and the external auditors, Statement on pages 16 and 17.
Changes to the composition and monitors their effectiveness, and it reviews the interim of the Board during the year and the Board succession plans and annual financial statements before they are considered appear on page 8 of this report.
There is a clear division of by the Board.
The Board had adopted a revised policy on responsibilities between the Chairman, who is part-time, and the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit the Group Chief Executive.
All the Non-Executive Directors are services, the objective of which is to ensure that the provision considered to be independent.
They bring wide and varied of such services does not impact the external auditors commercial experience to Board deliberations.
Lord Levene independence and objectivity.
The Head of Group Internal Audit is the senior Non-Executive Director.
has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Companys external auditors attend Committee meetings.
The Board meets10 times a year, including a two day strategy The Chairman of the Audit Committee holds separate meetings conference.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved with the Head of the Group Internal Audit and the external for its consideration.
It is responsible to shareholders for the auditors, whilst the Committee meets with the external strategic development of the Group, the management of assets auditors without management being present.
in a way that maximises performance and the control of the operation of the business.
The Board approves the Groups The Nomination Committee advises the Board on the strategic plan and its annual budget and, throughout the year, appointment of Directors and meets when necessary.
All reviews the performance of the operating subsidiaries against Directors are required to seek re-appointment by shareholders their budgets and targets.
at the first opportunity after their appointment and must stand for re-election to the Board every three years under the The Group Chief Executive has authority delegated by the Companys Articles of Association.
Board for implementing the strategy and for managing the Group.
In doing so, he works with the Group Executive The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set Committee which comprises of all of the Executive Directors out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 12 to 19. and certain other senior executives of the Group.
The Group Internal control Chief Executive also chairs the Boards of Sainsburys The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal Supermarkets Ltd and Shaws Supermarkets Inc. controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of The Company has a programme for meeting Directors training internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate requirements.
Newly appointed Directors who do not have the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business objectives previous public company experience at Board level are provided and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance with appropriate training on their role and responsibilities.
New against material misstatement or loss.
It includes all controls Non-Executive Directors are offered an appropriate induction including financial, operational and compliance controls and programme.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing risk management.
basis to meet particular needs.
The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information control systems include the following: to enable it to discharge its duties effectively.
The Chairman is regular operational and financial reviews of performance responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly briefed against budgets and forecasts by management and the on issues arising at Board meetings.
Board: All Directors have access to the advice and services of the regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee Company Secretary.
There is an agreed procedure by which of the scope and results of internal audit work across the members of the Board may take independent professional Group.
The scope of the work covers all key activities of advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their the Group and concentrates on higher risk areas: duties.
The Company Secretary has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters by the Audit Committee and any significant issues arising: reserved for the Board.
reviews by the Audit Committee and the Board of Board Committees accounting policies and delegated authority levels: and The Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees have consideration by the Board of the major risks facing the written terms of reference which define their authorities, Group and procedures to manage them.
These include health duties and membership.
These Committees are made up and safety, legal compliance, quality assurance, insurance, exclusively of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the security and social, ethical and environmental risks.
10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Investor relations identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced The Company is committed to maintaining good by the Group.
This process has been in place throughout the communications with shareholders.
Institutional investors year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual and buyside and sellside analysts are invited to briefings Report and Financial Statements and accords with the Turnbull by the Company immediately after the announcement of guidance.
The effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a the Companys interim and full year results.
The content year by the Audit Committee which then reports to the Board.
of these briefings is posted on the Companys website The process consists of: www.
co. uk investors so as to be available to all shareholders.
formal identification by management at each level of the Group through a self assessment process of the key risks Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the to achieving their business objectives and the controls in Board at the Annual General Meeting, which will be held on place to manage them.
The likelihood and potential impact 23 July 2003.
There will be a display of various aspects of the of each risk is evaluated: Groups activities and a business presentation by the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and certification by management that they are responsible for Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions.
the risks to their business objectives and that the internal Proxy votes will be announced after each resolution.
A detailed controls are such that they provide reasonable but not explanation of each item of special business to be considered absolute assurance that the risks are appropriately at the Annual General Meeting is included with the Notice of identified, evaluated and managed: Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working reporting and review by the board of each operating days before the meeting.
company of risk management activities and action taken Information on matters of particular interest to private to address non-compliance with controls or to improve shareholders is set out on page 30 of the Annual Review and their effectiveness: and Summary Financial Statement.
In addition, the Companys independent assurance by internal audit as to the existence website www.
co. uk investors makes available a and effectiveness of the risk management activities wide range of information to all shareholders.
The system of internal control and risk management is embedded into the operations of the Group, and the actions taken to mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
Going concern The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group financial statements.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2003 11
