Corporate Governance statement Amersham continues to focus upon the operation of corporate governance in the UK and globally, specifically the US.
The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate governance throughout the group.
The Board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Principles of Good Governance and the provisions of the Code of Best Practice, including recent report issuances identified in the London Stock Exchange's Combined Code, issued on 23 July 2003, are applied by the company.
The Board believes that good governance is about more than satisfying check lists and meeting legal obligations.
The Board seeks to increase understanding of the operation of its governance and in so doing demonstrate that it exceeds the requirements as currently prescribed by law.
With the objective of ensuring successful creation of value within a framework of acceptable risk, the Board sees its role as including: - Assisting value creation by the controlled and measured management of a wide range of business risks - Encouraging the proper assessment and consideration of business opportunity - Deciding, after proper consideration, the strategic direction and future needs of the business - Representing the interests of shareholders and satisfying all statutory duties to them - Ensuring appropriate behaviour with respect to the various codes of corporate governance and good business practices - Overseeing good corporate citizenship and ethical behaviour by the company and its employees with regard to all its internal and external stakeholders - Providing a challenging confidential forum, free from conflicts, in which the Chief Executive can test strategic thinking with an informed group having broad continuity over time - Requiring the Chief Executive to report openly on the operational performance of all parts of the company - Monitoring the effectiveness of the Chief Executive and his executive team as set against a series of performance objectives and benchmarks - Setting a control framework within which the Chief Executive can operate, and making decisions on major issues and investments where the cost exceeds the discretionary limit of the Chief Executive - Setting objectives and appropriate authority levels for the Chief Executive - Constituting subcommittees of the Board to address the issues of remuneration, nominations and audit.
- Considering the effectiveness of the Board itself, committees and individual directors.
- Setting appropriate policies on internal control and seeking assurance that the system is working effectively.
Each member of the Board brings different experience and skills to the operation of the Board and its various subcommittees.
The Board composition is kept under review and when a new appointment is to be made, consideration is given to the kind of experience which a potential new member could add to the existing mix.
Each Non-Executive is encouraged to contribute to both the full Board and where appropriate its committees.
The Board met formally nine times during the year including a two-day annual review of strategy and the full Board attended all meetings except for two directors who were unable to attend one meeting and two directors who were unable to attend two meetings, due to other commitments.
Separate terms of reference delineate the work of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees as well as any other committees of the Board or ad hoc groups that the Board authorises for any purpose.
14 The Non-Executive Directors meet privately as a group with the Chairman, as necessary, at least once a year and similarly with both the Chairman and the Chief Executive to consider management and succession issues.
Non-Executive Directors also review each year the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that this is working in a manner to the benefit of the business.
The Board meetings encourage open discussion, and management brings issues to the Board seeking advice and approval where appropriate.
The Board also receives presentations from advisers and where necessary, members have access to independent advice.
The Board believes that its style of involvement with the management through the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors is the most effective way to provide confidence in the control environment of the company.
Through openness and discussion the Board endeavours to understand and provide leadership as to the willingness of the company to take appropriate risks in the interests of the shareholders.
Annually the Board considers its performance of each of the roles it has set itself.
External communications Amersham recognises and fulfils its responsibilities to maintain a good dialogue with all shareholders and ensures that their views are communicated to the Board.
Regular meetings are held with institutional shareholders throughout the year to discuss the progress of the company, future growth prospects and strategy.
The company maintains an Investor Relations department to facilitate ongoing communication with shareholders.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and encourages their participation in compliance with the Combined Code provisions.
The company has produced a shareholder booklet for retail shareholders which is available on the Companys website or on request.
Other channels of communication include company presentations, seminars, press releases and interim and annual reports.
In addition, the company website www.
com provides information on the company for all shareholders and the general public.
The Board The Board comprises five Executive Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the financial year, the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive have been held separately.
The Chairman Mr D H Brydon, is an independent Non-Executive Director, as deemed by the Board.
Mr D H Brydon took over from the previous Chairman, Mr R D Lapthorne, who was an independent Non-Executive Director, who retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2003.
The Deputy Chairman, Mr J Fr Odfjell, has been identified as the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board members appear on page 11 which also show the membership of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Board considered all the Non-Executive Directors were independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement, except for John Johansen, who is an employee.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
15 The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated widely throughout the group.
To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information and appropriate resources to discharge their responsibilities.
Newly appointed Directors are given training appropriate to the level of their previous experience and specific training for committees to which they are appointed.
All are appraised of their roles and duties as Directors of a public company and have undertaken that they will have sufficient time to meet these expectations when signing the letter of appointment.
The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy, performance and management of the group.
Authority for implementing the Boards policies is delegated to the Chief Executive within certain limits authorised by the Board.
The Board evaluates its effectiveness and that of its committees.
Performance was considered satisfactory in all areas.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met once during the year to review the composition of, and succession to, the Board and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Committee comprises five of the independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Mr J Fr Odfjell, the Deputy Chairman of the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board in light of corporate governance regulation and best practice both current and proposed.
Members of the Committee abstain when matters affecting their own appointments are discussed.
The Committee has available to it the services of external advisers as it deems necessary and at the companys expense.
The Chief Executive attends the meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee also determines group policy relating to share option plans and the level at which share options are granted to senior executives within the group.
The Committee has available to it the services of independent advisers.
The Committee comprises six of the independent Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board and is chaired by Dr J S Patterson, a non-executive director.
Dr J S Patterson took up this position following the retirement of Mr R D Lapthorne at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2003.
The principal terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee appear in the Directors remuneration Report on page 19.
The Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director attend the meetings of the Committee to discuss the performance of the other Executive Directors and to make proposals as necessary but they are not present when their own remuneration is being considered.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the internal controls and accounts of the group and recommends actions or improvements as required.
It also considers the groups compliance with the latest version of the Combined Code.
The Committee is chaired by Mr J F Rejeange who took over as chairman of the committee in July 2003 from Mr D H Brydon who stepped down following his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The Committee comprises four further independent Non-Executive Directors: Mr D H Brydon, Mr D Challen, Mr J Fr Odfjell and Dr J S Patterson, two of whom are deemed to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee can request the external auditors, who are normally present, Executive Directors and other officers of the group to attend its meetings.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Risk and Operational Review department on all aspects of the groups system of internal control and assesses the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committee recommends the appointment of the external auditors, reviews the external audit fee and audit plan and pre-approves all non-audit work in respect of the external auditors prior to commitment.
The 16 Committee ensures that arrangements are in place for staff to raise concerns in confidence about any possible impropriety.
Disclosure Committee As recommended in the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a Disclosure Committee, chaired by Mr G F B Kerr and comprising relevant senior managers, has been established to ensure a robust verification and disclosure control process throughout the group.
This will enable the Chief Executive and the Finance Director to make the certifications as required by the legislation.
The Disclosure Committee reports directly to the Chief Executive.
Appointments to the Board Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors required to retire will be those in office longest since their previous appointment or re-appointment and this will usually mean that each Director retires at least every three years.
The Board has resolved that each Director will retire at least every three years, even if this is not strictly required by the application of the provisions of the Articles of Association.
Compliance In addition to the Principles of Good Governance, the Combined Code as revised in July 2003 also contains a Code of Best Practice detailing some forty-eight provisions.
The Board has carried out a full internal review of compliance with its provisions.
The Board confirms that the company has complied with these provisions throughout the financial year.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board, as required by the Combined Code, reviewed the companys internal control system and was satisfied that it operated effectively for the period under consideration.
The Board confirms that it has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code in that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, which has been in place for the year 2003 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, also that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in accord with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code revised in July 2003.
In accordance with provision C. 2.1 the Board, including the appropriate subcommittees regularly reviews the effectiveness of the groups internal control processes.
Key elements of the groups system of internal controls are set out below: Control environment The group is committed to high standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations throughout the world.
The group has in place group finance policies, a code of business conduct and employee procedures.
The group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegations of authority are documented.
17 Identifying and evaluating risk The identification and evaluation of risk in the business is approached at different levels.
This encompasses both: - Senior managements assessment of the groups risk profile in terms of the achievement of strategic objectives: and - A structured assessment of risks operating within entities and functions.
This process also involves assessing the probability, impact and the required actions for appropriately managing risks as identified.
The group seeks to understand the risks that it faces across the following broad categories: - External risks arising from, for example, market, competitor or regulatory issues - Informational risks concerning the integrity and availability of management information - Operational risks arising from, for instance, the management of our supply chain or our manufacturing processes - Financial risks associated with our budget and planning, liquidity position or the management of our credit - Strategic risks relating to our product portfolio or our planning.
Operational management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to their areas of business.
The group has a formal risk identification and review process facilitated by a dedicated function, which assists management in the process.
This function reports these risks to both the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
Performance monitoring Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews, which include the consideration of long term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
Operating units prepare annual budgets and five-year strategic plans: performance against plan is actively monitored at the Board and business unit level supported by regular forecasts.
Forecasts and results are consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Control procedures The group and its operating units have implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews by management and operational review, and external audit to the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
A process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides for a documented audit trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across group operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
These documents are reviewed by the Risk and Operational Review Department for completeness and accuracy.
Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion.
These processes have been reviewed and where necessary revised in light of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors have reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view the Directors have reviewed the Annual Profit Plan for the year ending 31 December 2004 and strategic plan projections for subsequent years.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the group is in a sound financial position and that sufficient borrowing facilities will be available to meet the group's foreseeable cash requirements.
On behalf of the Board D H Brydon, Chairman 19 February 2004 18
