Corporate governance The company is committed to the highest standards of Audit committee corporate governance as set out in section 1 of the The audit committee comprises all the non-executive Combined Code.
This report sets out how the principles directors and is chaired by John Herring.
The committee identified in the Combined Code have been applied to the meets at least three times a year with the external company.
auditors and one or more executive directors, as appropriate.
The audit committee, which has written Statements of compliance terms of reference, is responsible for reviewing the The company complied with the requirements of section 1 companys internal controls, risk-management procedures of the Combined Code throughout the year.
and the audit process, both internally and externally, and seeks to ensure that the financial and non-financial The board of directors information supplied to shareholders is complete and The board is made up of Tim Martin, the executive accurate, presenting a balanced assessment of the chairman, John Hutson, the managing director, two other companys position.
The committee reviews the objectivity executive directors and three non-executive directors.
The and independence of the external auditors and also senior independent non-executive director is John Herring.
considers the scope of their work and their fees.
The members of the board are described on page 8, and the board considers that all the non-executive directors Particular attention is paid to the engagement of the are independent of the executive team and of the companys auditors on non-audit work.
This is reflected in company, which provides a good balance for the proper the fact that the companys auditors during the year governance of the company.
The board meets formally received payment only for audit services and a review of at least eight times each year, with other meetings as the interim statements.
For several years, the company appropriate, and has a formal schedule of matters has separated the provision of taxation compliance from reserved to it for decision.
Directors are given appropriate the provision of audit services.
and timely information for each board meeting, including monthly reports on the current financial and trading Communications with shareholders position of the business.
Representatives of the company have regular meetings and dialogue with institutional shareholders.
The Annual The roles of the executive chairman and the managing General Meeting is considered to be an important forum director are separately held and are so defined as to for communicating with private shareholders, allowing ensure a clear division of responsibilities.
them to raise questions with the board.
All directors have access to independent professional Going concern advice, if required, at the companys expense.
The The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of directors responsibilities, in respect of the financial the companys financial resources, through a review of the statements, are detailed on page 9. companys budget and medium-term financial plan, including capital expenditure plans and cash flow On appointment, all executive directors undertake a forecasts, and have satisfied themselves that the company comprehensive induction programme covering all aspects will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable of the companys operations.
Formal appraisals take place future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the goingbi-annually, with any training and development needs concern basis in preparing the companys financial evaluated as part of that process.
The articles require that one-third of directors retires by Risk assessment rotation, subject to the requirement that each director To ensure that the company has an ongoing process for seek re-election every three years.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company, the board has established a riskNomination committee management group which contains senior representatives A formal nomination committee has been established, from all aspects of the business and is chaired by the comprising all the non-executive directors, chaired by finance director.
This group is responsible for the John Herring.
The nomination committee meets as administration of a risk register which looks at all areas of appropriate and considers all possible board the business and formulates detailed action plans to appointments and also the re-election of directors, both mitigate any risks identified.
No director is involved in any decision about his or her own re-appointment.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE On behalf of the board, the audit committee reviews the The key procedures in place to enable this responsibility effectiveness of the risk-management group and, where to be discharged are as follows: appropriate, identifies any matters requiring specific consideration by the board.
Similarly, the audit committeeA comprehensive budgeting process is in place, with a reviews the scope of the work undertaken by the internal detailed operating plan for 12 months and a mid-term audit department and receives regular updates on its financial plan, both approved by the board.
Business work and findings and monitors the implementation of results are reported weekly for key items and monthly in recommended actions.
full and compared with budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, for review by the board.
This process has been in place throughout the year underClearly defined authority limits and controls are in review and up to the date of approval of the annual report place over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and and accounts.
It has been regularly reviewed by the board capital expenditure.
and accords with the Combined Code.
A retail audit function monitors the control of cash, stock and operating procedures in operating units.
A Internal control separate internal audit function also looks at the overall The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the business risks facing the company and reviews general companys system of internal control, which can be business processes.
defined as the controls established in order to provideComplex treasury instruments are not used.
Decisions reasonable assurance that the assets have been protected on treasury matters are reserved for the board.
against unauthorised use, that proper accounting recordsThe directors confirm that they have reviewed the have been maintained and that the financial information effectiveness of the system of internal control.
which is produced is reliable.
Such a system can, however, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors recognise that, in attaining long-term shareholder value, they are responsible for providing a return which is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
