Corporate Governance The Board considers that the maintenance of high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group, including compliance with the Combined Code the Code, is central to achieving the Groups objective of maximising shareholder value.
The Company is already advanced in its compliance with the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is effective for reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
A full report on compliance will be published in next years Annual Report.
Board of Directors Composition and responsibilities The Board currently comprises ten directors, made up of five executive and five non-executive directors which the Board considers provides a satisfactory balance of decision-making.
Dr. Christopher Masters is the senior independent director.
Upon the retirement of Mr Bill Edgar and the election of Mr Trevor Noble and Mr Les Thomas there will be six executive directors and, recognising the importance of having an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board, an executive search company has been appointed to find a suitable additional non-executive director.
After careful consideration, the Board considers all its non-executive directors to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board takes the view that a non-executive director does not automatically lose his independence after serving as a director for more than three consecutive terms of three years.
The Board considers that in a long term, complex and diverse international business, it is essential that non-executive directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, knowledge and experience of the business and markets in which the Group operates.
Mr Ewan Brown, who has served as a non-executive director for more than nine years, will offer himself for re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and annually thereafter in compliance with the new Code.
Sir Ian Wood holds the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
As a result of his substantial shareholding in the Company, the Board believes Sir Ian Woods interests are very closely aligned with those of the companys other shareholders and that the combining of these roles is in the interests of both the company and its shareholders.
The nonexecutive directors have discussed the combined role and believe that this is in the best interests of the company.
Management succession plans are in place and will be implemented at the appropriate time.
All directors must submit themselves for election at the annual general meeting following their appointment and, thereafter, for re-election at least once every three years.
Discharge of its responsibilities The Board meets at least four times a year and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consideration and approval.
It is responsible for the approval of Group strategy, the annual budget, significant acquisitions, major financing decisions and the overall system of internal control.
Divisional and company management, including the executive directors, are responsible for the implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects of managing the business.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information from management to enable it to perform its duties, including monthly reports on significant issues.
The Boards skills and knowledge are regularly refreshed, including visits to key Group facilities.
John Wood Group PLC 33 Corporate Governance There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional advice at the companys expense and all directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board undertook an evaluation of its own performance, and of its committees and individual directors in early 2004 by use of the performance evaluation guidance included in the Higgs Report.
The non-executive directors also conducted an evaluation of the Chairmans performance, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
There is a regular assessment of the requirement for directors training and all new directors will receive a full, formal and tailored induction.
Committees of the Board The Board has delegated some of its responsibilities to committees, principally the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A summary of the work of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee is set out below whilst the report of the Remuneration Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38.
The Committees terms of reference will be made available on the companys website.
Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees is summarised below : Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2003 4 3 1 1 Executive directors: Sir Ian Wood 4 1 A G Langlands 4 W R Brooks 3 W Edgar 4 A G Semple 4 Non-executive directors: E Brown 4 3 1 Dr C Masters 4 3 1 R Monti 3 1 - J C Morgan 4 3 1 1 D J Ogren 4 1 1 34 John Wood Group PLC Audit Committee Committee composition and responsibilities The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Dr. Christopher Masters Chairman, Ewan Brown and John Morgan: and, of these, Ewan Brown has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, and has written terms of reference the Audit Committee Charter setting out its roles and responsibilities.
These include: To monitor the integrity of the companys financial statements and its interim and preliminary announcements To review the companys internal financial controls To monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function To review the terms of engagement and independence of the external auditors, and to recommend their appointment, reappointment or removal to the Board of Directors To continually review a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
Discharge of its responsibilities Attendance at Committee meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
However the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors will generally be invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct access to the Chairman of the Committee at all times and the right to meet the Committee without management present.
The Committee met three times in 2003.
At its meetings the Committee reviewed the Annual Report for 2002, the companys 2003 interim announcement, and the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
These reviews included: Discussion with management and the external auditors of significant issues regarding financial risks, accounting principles, practices, and judgements Consideration with the external auditors of the significant matters arising from the annual external audit Review of reports prepared by the internal audit function together with managements response and the actions they have taken Focus on complex or unusual transactions and judgmental areas.
The external auditors provide an annual confirmation of their independence from the Group and details of any relationships between them and the Group that could impact their objectivity and independence.
Non-audit services provided by external auditors The Committee approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy on the engagement of external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy provides guidance to the Committee in safeguarding the external auditors independence and objectivity in relation to the provision of non-audit services.
The non-audit services provided in 2003 consisted mainly of tax advice, the cost of which is reported in Note 2 to the financial statements.
John Wood Group PLC 35 Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Committee composition and responsibilities The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Ian Wood Chairman and all the independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year to review the Board structure, size and composition, make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies and to ensure that succession plans are in place.
Discharge of its responsibilities The Committee met once during 2003.
No changes to the Board composition were made during 2003.
Relations with Shareholders The Group maintains a dialogue with its institutional shareholders throughout the year.
The annual general meeting is also used as an opportunity to answer shareholders questions.
The senior independent director is available to meet with major shareholders.
Statement of Compliance with the Code The Board is satisfied that it has complied with the current Code provisions throughout the year ended 31 December 2003.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull working party report:Internal Control - Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The procedures which the directors have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following: Control environment - The Group has a clear organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued Group Policies, including an Ethics Policy, to define the standards of business conduct.
An advice line has also been introduced to enable staff to raise ethical concerns in confidence.
Risk management - Each Business Unit management team is responsible for the process of identification and evaluation of significant operational, financial and compliance risks, and for the design and operation of effective internal controls.
The Board receives regular updates from management on the key risks and the related controls.
The Board formally reviews the Groups exposure to key business risks twice a year.
36 John Wood Group PLC Information and communication - The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the full board.
This includes monthly reports on significant issues and comprehensive quarterly reports.
The comprehensive quarterly reports include detailed financial review against budgets and revised forecasts, which are prepared at least twice a year.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports.
In addition, each Business Unit performs a quarterly update involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors: including the Chairman and Chief Executive, and the Deputy Chief Executive.
Monitoring of the internal control systems - The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
A quarterly self certification by each company is also used to monitor the quality of the internal financial controls.
The Group, for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Committee Guidance referred to above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Going Concern Having made appropriate enquiries, the directors consider that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are required by UK law to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of that period and of the profit of the Group for that period.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
