Part of Life 32 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the basis, monitoring the financial Mr P E B Cawdron is available to address principles of Corporate Governance achievements of the business.
The Board any concerns that any shareholder may contained in the 1998 Combined Code reviews the performance of management have, which have not been resolved on Corporate Governance and the in meeting the agreed objectives and through the normal communication 2003 Revised Combined Code which goals, plans the succession of key channels of the Chairman or Executive is appended to the Listing Rules of the executives, and determines appropriate Directors.
Financial Services Authority and for remuneration levels.
which the Board is accountable to The Chairman of the Remuneration shareholders.
At least one Board meeting is wholly Committee is Lord Gordon of Strathblane.
devoted to strategy and to the With regard to the Audit Committee, Statement of Compliance with The development of a plan for the long term Sir Harry Roche was Chairman until Code of Best Practice growth of the Company.
This is reviewed December 2003, when Mr P E B The Company has complied throughout and discussed as appropriate at the other Cawdron, who is a chartered accountant, the year with the Provisions of The Code Board meetings held during the year.
of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code.
Following the In addition to the normal agenda at Board Board Attendance publication of the Revised Combined meetings, which is described below, the During 2003, every director attended all Code in July 2003, the Board considered directors consider one operational or meetings with the following exceptions.
all the provisions at its meetings in special topic at each meeting.
During the Lord Gordon of Strathblane missed the September and October and decided on last twelve months this has included strategy meeting in June, although he had early full compliance.
circulation of daily newspapers, future a meeting previously with the Chairman to press requirements, editorial policy, express his views.
Mr P E B Cawdron Statement of Application of The national advertising and human resource was absent for the September meeting.
Principles of Good Governance trends and issues.
Mr R G Parry was absent for the August The Company has applied The Principles meeting when the Board, led by the of Good Governance set out in Section Board Meeting Agenda Senior Independent Director, took the 1 of the Combined Code and the The Board receives a formal schedule of opportunity of appraising the performance Revised Combined Code as reported matters specifically reserved to it for of the Chairman.
Further explanation of how the decision, such as future strategy, Principles have been applied is set out acquisitions and disposals, capital The meetings of the Remuneration and below and, in connection with directors expenditure, trading and capital budgets Audit Committees were attended by all remuneration, in the Directors and Group borrowing facilities.
The Board members either personally or by telephone.
considers monthly reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Director Board Balance Board Effectiveness of Operations and Minutes of the Board Of the Companys current ten Directors, The Board considers that it has shown its are circulated to all Board members.
It two are Executive and the remainder commitment to leading and controlling has also made the Company Secretary Non-Executive, of whom five are regarded the Company by meeting nine times in responsible to the Board for the as independent, excluding the Chairman.
the year, but can meet when necessary timeliness and quality of information.
Other than the Chairman, those who are for any matters which may arise.
The regarded as non-independent are Mr Remuneration Committee met on four Board Responsibilities F P M Johnston and Mr H C M Johnston, occasions and the Audit Committee The Board acknowledges the division who have significant shareholdings in the three times.
of responsibilities for running the Board Company and have previously served the and managing the Companys business Group in an executive role.
The Board sets the strategic aims and with Mr R G Parry as Non-Executive objectives of the Company, ensuring that Chairman, Sir Harry Roche as Senior It is the view of the Board that such the Company has sufficient financial and Independent Director and Deputy circumstances do not lessen the value human resources to meet the objectives.
Chairman and Mr T J Bowdler as the of the contributions made by these two The Board sets the Companys values Companys Chief Executive.
and standards and ensures that its Roche has decided to retire at the Annual obligations to its shareholders and others General Meeting in 2004 and Mr P E B The Board determines that Sir Harry are understood and met.
Management Cawdron succeeded him as Senior Roche is independent despite serving on are responsible for the application of the Independent Director in December 2003. the Board for ten years.
He is highly aims and objectives on a day-to-day respected for his wealth of industry Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 33 experience and his totally impartial and Information and Professional Board Election Re-election professional approach to his role.
He Development It is the policy of the Board for all retires from the Board at the forthcoming The Chairman arranged a detailed directors to be subject to election at Annual General Meeting.
induction process for the two new the first Annual General Meeting after Non-Executive Directors, including their appointment.
In addition, all At least half the Board, excluding the meetings and discussions with advisers directors are subject to re-election at Chairman, comprises Non-Executive and senior management, together with intervals of no more than three years, Directors determined by the Board to be the preparation of a full induction pack although the Articles of Association independent.
provide that one third of the Board must retire every year.
Board Appointments All Board members have access to The composition of the Nomination independent advice on any matters The Chairman has, following the formal Committee was changed in December relating to their responsibilities as evaluation process described above, 2003.
It was chaired throughout the directors and as members of the various considered the performance of the period by Mr R G Parry.
Prior to the end Committees of the Board.
The Company directors subject to election and reof December, it also comprised Mr P E B Secretary is available to all directors and election at the 2004 Annual General Cawdron, Mr F P M Johnston and Sir he is responsible for ensuring that all Meeting and is satisfied that the Harry Roche.
The new Committee Board procedures are complied with.
individuals performance continues to be comprises Mr P E B Cawdron and Lord effective and that they have demonstrated Gordon of Strathblane in addition to the Board Performance Evaluation a clear commitment to the role.
Reporting to the Board, its During the last year, the Board has duty is to seek suitably skilled and conducted a rigorous evaluation of its Financial Reporting experienced candidates, with sufficient own performance.
This involved the The Board has shown its commitment to time to devote to the role, as Noncompletion of an assessment presenting appropriate information about Executive Directors and to oversee all questionnaire by all directors covering the the Companys financial position by Board appointments.
performance of the Board, individual complying with non-mandatory directors and Board Committees.
Other statements issued by the Accounting The terms of reference of the Committee topics included meetings, the provision Standards Board relating to the operating are displayed on the Companys website of information, training and the overall and financial review disclosures which are in the Investor Relations section.
The included in this Annual Report.
questionnaires were submitted to the During the last twelve months two Company Secretary, who prepared a Directors Responsibilities additional Non-Executive Directors were summary of the conclusions, which were United Kingdom company law requires appointed to the Board.
The Nomination discussed at the Board meeting in the Directors to prepare accounts for Committee met in late 2002 to consider January 2004.
Separately, the Secretary each financial year which give a true and the composition and balance of skills on produced a report summarising any fair view of the state of affairs of the the Board at that time and, based on the individual recommendations for the Company and of the Group and of the industry experience and skill set it felt consideration of the Chairman.
This was profit or loss of the Group for that year.
was required from the new followed up by meetings as appropriate In preparing those accounts, the appointments, it prepared a clear brief with individual directors.
Directors are required to: for the Board to consider.
The Board appointed external consultants to seek Training is undertaken as required during select suitable accounting policies and suitable candidates based on the brief it the year.
The feedback from the recent then apply them consistently: had agreed.
Recommended candidates questionnaires will assist in the training make judgements and estimates that were interviewed by the Committee and, plan for the forthcoming year.
The Board are reasonable and prudent: those that were felt to be suitable, by the arranges for its Non-Executive Directors state whether applicable accounting whole Board.
The new independent to visit the Groups principal locations at standards have been followed, subject Non-Executive Directors were appointed certain intervals to discuss the operations to any material departures disclosed on 25 April 2003.
They will retire at the with local management.
In addition, at and explained in the accounts.
Annual General Meeting and will be least one Board meeting is held at one of seeking election.
the Groups centres and the Board After making enquiries, the Directors receives a presentation from the local have a reasonable expectation that the managing director and a tour of the Company and the Group have adequate business.
resources to continue in operational Part of Life 34 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate GOVERNANCE existence for the foreseeable future.
For significant variations against budget external auditors.
These reviews this reason, they continue to adopt the and the previous year are fully include discussion of any control going concern basis in preparing the examined.
The day-to-day responsibility weaknesses or issues identified by accounts.
for managing each of the Groups the auditors.
operations rests with local experienced The Directors are responsible for keeping senior managers and the Group has a The conduct of risk assessment proper accounting records which clear organisational structure which involving all senior managers of the disclose with reasonable accuracy at any includes appropriate delegation of Groups businesses in addition to the time the financial position of the authority.
The Executive Directors Groups Executive Directors.
The Company and enable them to ensure ensure that regular contact is made results of these assessments are that the accounts comply with the with all senior managers.
The Group summarised and reported to the entire Companies Act 1985.
They are also Management Committee, comprising Board.
These risk assessment responsible for safeguarding the assets the Executive Directors, the Director of sessions will continue at each of the Company and the Group and Operations, the Company Secretary, operation and will evaluate the risks hence for taking reasonable steps for the the Director of Human Resources and identified.
During 2003 there has been prevention and detection of fraud and the Business Development Manager, a particular focus on an updated other irregularities.
meets every month to review the Group health and safety policy, financial and operational issues as well management succession and the Internal Control as risks facing the Group.
implementation of an integrated IT The Directors are responsible for the strategy across the Group.
Groups system of internal control and Formal Board approval for capital for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
expenditure over 250K and for other In addition, the Group Management Such a system is designed to manage investment decisions.
Approval was Committee has the ongoing rather than eliminate the risk of failure to granted for all acquisitions and responsibility to set policies, procedures achieve business objectives, and can disposals submitted.
and standards as detailed in the Groups only provide reasonable and not policy guidelines, which have been absolute assurance against material Formal Board approval of the annual updated as appropriate during the year.
The system of budget for the forthcoming financial The guidelines include policies on: internal control has been designed to year.
These are detailed and meet the Groups particular needs and comprehensive budgets, covering Finance the risks to which it is exposed.
Cash treasury controls Trading There is a ongoing continuous process of Review by the Audit Committee on a Customer service, information and identifying, evaluating and managing the six-monthly basis of the work technology significant risks faced by the Group, which performed by the Internal Financial Property management has been in place throughout the year Control Committee IFCC based on a Human resources including pension under review and up to the date of programme of work agreed in administration, health and safety, approval of the annual report and advance.
The IFCC is chaired by the environmental issues and energy accounts.
This process is well Company Secretary who is management documented and regularly reviewed by the responsible for the conduct of control Legal and regulatory compliance Board.
The key elements of the process reviews in selected locations by Business continuity during the period under review have been: members of the Committee who are independent of the location visited.
At its meeting on 30 January 2004, the Formal Board reporting on a monthly The IFCC is also responsible for the Board considered the means by which it basis by the Chief Executive, Finance review of detailed financial control monitors internal controls and concluded Director and Director of Operations on checklists submitted by each that it was satisfied with its process for the Groups performance and on any operation to head office monthly.
monitoring internal controls and that this emerging risks and issues.
The monthly process complies with the management accounts break down the Review by the Audit Committee of the recommendations of the Internal Control results of the Groups operations by results of the annual audit and review Guidance for Directors in the Combined company performance and all of the half-year results by the Groups Code.
Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 35 The Directors also reviewed the need In addition, the meetings consider a shareholders to discuss any issues of for an internal audit department and report on the work of the Internal concern and to obtain feedback.
In concluded that they did not believe it Financial Control Committee.
Its work is addition, they communicate regularly necessary for the Group to maintain described in the Internal Control section throughout the year with those such a department, given the role of and, given the detail and comfort shareholders who request a meeting.
the IFCC and the current independent included in the report, the Committee review and monitoring procedures regard this approach as an effective way The Chairman personally contacts the in operation.
to review the financial controls in the leading shareholders in the Company business rather than establish an internal every year to address any concerns and Audit Committee audit function.
The full Board The composition of the Audit Committee receives a report on any discussion with changed in December 2003.
Previously The Audit Committee meetings to shareholders and the written feedback it was chaired by Sir Harry Roche, and consider the financial results of the that follows the half yearly presentations is also comprised Mr P E B Cawdron and Company are attended by the Finance circulated to the Board.
In December Sir Director and the Company Secretary, reports and analysts briefings are Harry Roche and Mr H C M Johnston who acts as Secretary to the Committee, included in the Board papers sent to the stepped down and were replaced by with minutes being circulated to all directors every month.
Mrs M A King and Mr S J Waugh.
The Chairman and P E B Cawdron, a chartered accountant, Chief Executive are also invited to attend Members of the Board have met with now chairs the Committee.
if required to do so by the Committee.
institutional shareholders during the year Towards the close of both meetings, all to consider Corporate Governance The Committee has written terms of executives leave in order for the issues.
All the Non-Executive Directors reference that outline its authority and Committee to have a private discussion are prepared to meet with shareholders to duties.
This is displayed on the with the auditors.
understand more fully their views.
Companys website in the Investor Relations section.
The terms include a At the meeting to review the Annual Annual General Meeting review of the arrangements by which Report and Accounts, the Committee The Board seeks to encourage staff may, in confidence, raise concerns considers the non-audit services shareholders to attend its Annual General about possible improprieties in matters provided by the Companys external Meeting.
Directors are present to answer of financial reporting or other areas.
These are fully explored and any questions from shareholders.
It uses discussed and the Committee is satisfied the Annual General Meeting to The Committee meets once during the that the objectivity and independence of communicate with private investors and year with the Companys external auditors the external audit is safeguarded.
to discuss and agree the audit programme for the forthcoming year, The Committee oversaw the together with any proposed non-audit appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP in work.
The two other meetings follow the 2002 and have a primary responsibility interim financial review and the year-end for the appointment, re-appointment and audit.
They cover a comprehensive report removal of auditors.
from the external auditors on their work and their conclusions.
The Committee Dialogue with Institutional focuses on the areas of financial Shareholders judgement by the Company.
It also The Board encourages and seeks to build reviews the summary of the Companys up a mutual understanding of objectives key business risks and discusses any between the Company and its institutional revisions.
The Committee is actively shareholders.
As part of this process, the involved in the annual review of internal Chief Executive and Finance Director controls conducted by the main Board as make twice yearly presentations to a specific topic at its meeting in January.
institutional shareholders and meet with
