Corporate governance Corporate governance Executive committee The company is committed to high standards of corporate Chaired by the chief executive and comprising of all the executive governance throughout the group and the board is accountable directors and the group chairman, it has delegated authority to the companys shareholders for maintaining those standards.
to supervise the executive and operational management of This statement describes how the Code provisions identified in the company.
the Combined Code are applied by the company.
Audit committee The board considers that the company has complied throughout The audit committee reviews the groups system of internal control, the accounting period with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 accounting policies and financial and other reporting procedures.
It makes recommendations to the board relating to the appointment of the external auditors.
It agrees the nature and scope of the audit, The board of directors reviews its results and cost effectiveness and the independence and The company is led by a board of directors which maintains control objectivity of the auditors in accordance with the policy described over the companys activities.
Biographies of the current board on page 30.
Ken Jackson is chairman and Derek Roberts and members appear on page 28 of this report.
These indicate the high John Napier are members of the audit committee.
level and range of experience which they possess.
Remuneration committee The board meets at least six times each year and more frequently The remuneration committee recommends to the board the where business needs require.
The board has a schedule of matters remuneration policies for the executive directors and senior reserved for its decision and the requirement for board approval management and determines remuneration packages for those on these matters is communicated widely throughout the senior executives.
No director is involved in discussion or voting in management of the group.
relation to their own remuneration.
David Salkeld is chairman and Derek Roberts and Ken Jackson are members of the Appropriate briefing and training is available to directors on, and remuneration committee.
There is an agreed procedure for directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent Nominations committee professional advice at the companys expense.
Directors have The nominations committee makes recommendations to the direct access to the group company secretary who is responsible board on the appointment of directors.
Derek Roberts is for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
The directors chairman and Ken Jackson, David Salkeld and John Napier receive full and timely access to all relevant information.
are members of the nominations committee.
The board comprises a chairman, three executive directors and Environment and community committee three non executive directors.
All of the non executive directors The environment and community committee recommends are considered by the board to be independent of management to the board appropriate environmental policies and procedures.
and free from any business or other relationship which could It is responsible for the publication of the environment and materially interfere with the exercise of their independent community report which is available on the internet at judgement.
Derek Roberts is the senior independent director.
com environment John Napier is chairman Following the interim appointment of John Napier as executive and Kevin Whiteman is a member of the committee.
chairman, the roles of chairman and chief executive were separated on 2 September 2002.
Directors remuneration Full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the Potential appointments of both executive and non executive companys remuneration policy are set out in the remuneration directors to the board are, at the request of the board or the report appearing on pages 33 to 37. chairman, considered by the nominations committee, which comprises the chairman and all three non executive directors.
Communication with stakeholders The recommendations of the nominations committee are The company places a great deal of importance on communication ultimately made to the full board, which considers them with its stakeholders.
Shareholders have direct access to the before any appointment is made.
company via the investor relations section of its website at www.
com and its free shareholder information Any director appointed during the year is required, under the telephone service.
The company responds promptly to enquiries provisions of the companys articles of association, to retire from shareholders and customers on a wide range of issues.
and seek election by shareholders at the next annual general There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders meeting.
The articles of association of the company require as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary each director to be subject to re-election at intervals of no results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions more than three years.
at the companys annual general meeting and the company will make a presentation at the meeting to highlight the key business The board has delegated certain authority to the following developments.
The chairmen of all board committees will be committees.
Each committee has formal terms of reference.
available to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
The membership of each of the committees is shown on page 28.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 31 Corporate governance Internal control The board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control system of internal control.
It has received the reports of the audit and for reviewing its effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process committee and has conducted a formal annual review covering for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced all controls including financial, operational and compliance by the group and this has been in place for the year under review controls and risk management, in accordance with the Internal and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued Strategic, financial, commercial, operational, social, environmental in September 1999. and ethical risks fall within the scope of this process.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the financial year, material joint ventures have been dealt with as part of the group for the purposes of applying the guidance.
Associates have not been dealt with as part of the group for this purpose, although, Waste Recycling Group plc has its own process for compliance with the Code provisions.
The groups risk management process is intended to be comprehensive, systematic and continuous, and based on constant monitoring of business risk.
The key features of the process include the following: The main risks facing the group are identified and recorded in a strategic risk register together with the control mechanisms applicable to each risk.
These are collated from risk registers maintained by individual businesses.
There is clear allocation of management responsibility for risk identification, recording, analysis and control.
The audit committee generally meets four times each year and reviews the effectiveness of the systems which are in place and reports to the board.
A risk management forum, chaired by the group finance director, has been established with formal terms of reference comprising of senior management from key disciplines and operating companies.
It advises and assists operational managing directors and the board in the implementation of the risk management process and monitors risk on behalf of the board.
It reports to the audit committee.
Business units are required to report annually on principal business risks and the operation of control mechanisms.
The group audit and business services department provides objective assurance and advice on risk management and control, and monitors the risk management process.
Comprehensive and well defined control policies are formally set out in the companys policies and procedures manual.
