Corporate governance statement Combined Code Compliance The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
Their Throughout the year, Kidde has complied with the Combined respective responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference.
Kidde has reviewed the implications of the revised Combined Code and the related guidance and good The Board is ultimately responsible for the direction and practice suggestions including those contained in the Turnbull, management of the Company.
It discharges those responsibilities Smith and Higgs Reports and can confirm compliance with the through defined structures set out in a written Code of vast majority of the principles.
There are three areas where the Boardroom Practice and Board authorities.
This sets out the roles Company may be considered not to comply and these relate to of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, nonthe following code provisions: executive directors, Senior Independent Director and divisional managing directors.
It also describes matters which are reserved A.
2.1 The generally accepted interpretation of these for Board approval such as matters relating to the strategic and provisions of the Code is that a Chairman ceases to be independent financial direction of the Company, including the approval of the on appointment.
Mr Askew became a non-executive director annual budget and corporate plan, risk management and in February 2003 and was appointed Chairman of Kidde on corporate social responsibility strategies, acquisitions and disposals, 31 December 2003.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Code, appointments to the Board and the appointment and removal of the Board considers Mr Askew to be independent in character the Company Secretary.
and judgement and that there are no relationships or ircumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement The Board reviews on a regular basis the matters reserved for it, going forward.
Mr Askew remains a member of the Remuneration the terms of reference and delegated authorities of its Committee.
committees, and the procedures relating to the servicing of the Board in respect of meetings and the provision of information.
1.1 Schedule A of the Code Provisions on the design of performance related remuneration states that in general only basic All directors have access to the advice and services of the salary should be pensionable paragraph 6.
Bonuses payable to all Company Secretary who has direct responsibility to the Board to members of the Kidde UK defined benefit pension plan, including advise on matters of corporate governance, such as Board the directors, are pensionable.
This plan is now closed to new procedures and applicable rules and regulations.
The Remuneration Committees policy is that any future directors have access to professional advice within the Company executive directors, who are not existing members of the Kidde and externally.
This advice is available via the Company Secretary.
UK defined benefit pension plan, will not have pensionable bonuses.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review and these include their main B.
2.2 The Remuneration Committee does not have responsibility commitments outside the Company.
for setting the Chairmans remuneration.
The Board determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors as required by Chairman Code provision B.
2.3 and does not consider it appropriate that Norman Askew is non-executive Chairman and his terms of the Board should delegate responsibility for setting the Chairmans reference are set out below.
remuneration to the Remuneration Committee.
In general terms, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that Kidde has appropriate objectives, an effective strategy and Board, Committees and Delegated Authorities that the Board operates in an efficient manner: that there is a Board Chief Executive with a team of executive directors and supporting The Board consists of five independent non-executive directors staff able to implement the strategy: that there are procedures and two executive directors.
The following were directors of the in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives Company during the year.
and to ensure that Kidde is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate governance.
In addition, the Chairman Name Position provides advice, counsel and guidance to the Chief Executive.
Norman Askew Non-executive Chairman, Chairman of the The Chairman holds regular meetings with the non-executive Nomination Committee.
Joined the Board as Deputy Chairman on 10 February 2003 and was directors without the executive directors present.
appointed Chairman on 31 December 2003 Richard Gillingwater Independent non-executive director.
Joined the The Chairman maintains positive external relationships for the Board on 1 February 2004 Company at senior levels with business, financial and government John Gummer Senior independent non-executive director Michael Harper Chief Executive representatives, the press, major customers and the Companys Michael Kirkwood Independent non-executive director, Chairman of advisers, in particular to ensure effective communication with the Audit Committee shareholders and ensure that Board members develop an John Nicholas Group Finance Director understanding of the views of major investors.
John Poulter Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Sir Nigel Rudd Former non-executive Chairman, retired as The Chairman runs the Board and sets its agenda.
He encourages Chairman and a director on 31 December 2003 active engagement by all members of the Board and seeks to 14 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 ensure that the non-executive directors receive timely, accurate, e building and maintaining the Companys standing with clear and relevant information tailored to their needs and that they shareholders, financial institutions and the public: are properly briefed on the issues arising at Board meetings so that they can make an effective contribution as Board members.
This f leading by example in establishing a performance orientated, includes visiting the businesses and meeting senior management.
customer focused and publicly responsible corporate culture: The Chairman seeks to ensure also that the executive directors look beyond their executive duties and accept their full share of the g responsibility for ensuring health & safety is managed responsibilities of governance.
The Chairman manages the Board to ensure that sufficient time is In order to enable him to discharge his responsibilities, the Board allowed for discussion of complex or contentious issues and, where delegates its powers to the Chief Executive other than those appropriate, arranges for informal meetings beforehand to enable reserved to the Board Committees and those specifically reserved thorough preparation for the Board discussion.
He takes the lead to the Board.
in providing a properly constructed induction programme for new directors that is comprehensive, formal and tailored.
He also takes Senior Independent Director the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of The Rt.
John Gummer is the Senior Independent Director.
individual directors and ensures that the performance of individuals, The Company believes that no individual or small group of of the Board as a whole and its committees is evaluated at least individuals should dominate the Boards decision making and that once a year.
there should be a strong and independent non-executive element on the Board with a recognised member other than the Chairman On appointment as Chairman, Mr Askew was also Non-Executive to whom concerns can be conveyed.
Chairman of Taylor Woodrow plc.
His other appointments were Chairman of Manchester Science & Enterprise Centre and as The role of the Senior Independent Director is to ensure that the chairman-designate of the Company Limited by Guarantee, views of each non-executive director are given due consideration which will act as the vehicle for the merger of the University of and to provide a channel of communication between non-executive Manchester and the Manchester University of Science & Technology directors and shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director UMIST which will be completed in September 2004 when he will should listen to the views of major shareholders in order to help become Chairman of the new university.
Since the year end, Mr develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
Askew has resigned as Chairman of Manchester Science & Enterprise Centre, and has been appointed as Chairman of Derby External stakeholders and other directors may raise concerns Cityscape, an urban regeneration company set up in 2003 to act with the Senior Independent Director where contact through the as a catalyst to bring new investment to the city.
normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve those concerns or where such Chief Executive contact is inappropriate.
Michael Harper is the Chief Executive and his terms of reference are as follows: The Senior Independent Director has at least one meeting a year with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
The Chief Executive manages the business by developing In addition, the Senior Independent Director is invited to attend objectives, strategy and standards of performance: securing and meetings with major shareholders, in particular during the post leading a management team of the right calibre and directing results investor roadshows.
that team to deliver the required performance.
In general terms, his responsibilities encompass: Board meetings There are nine regular Board meetings a year with further ad hoc a the overall direction and management of the Company: meetings as required.
Full attendance at Board and Committee meetings is encouraged.
The number of meetings held during the b the development of objectives, strategy and performance year and individual attendance of members is set out below.
standards which will be reviewed and agreed annually by the Type of meeting Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Chairman and the Board: Number held 11 4 5 3 Individual attendance of members: c securing a management team of the right calibre.
10.02.03 9 3 4 2 of the team and its succession plan are reviewed annually with J S Gummer 10 4 5 2 the Chairman and the non-executive directors: J M Harper 11 4 M J Kirkwood 11 3 4 3 J E Nicholas 11 d leading the management team to achieve the agreed strategies J W Poulter 11 4 5 3 and objectives and, in particular, ensuring that there is a A N R Rudd ret.
31.12.03 10 4 2 monitoring system in place to maintain progressive performance standards and compliance with the highest standards of corporate governance: 15 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement continued Board Committees The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board: Following publication of the revised Combined Code, the Board reviewed and updated the terms of reference of its committees.
regarding plans for succession for both executive and nonIn addition, following the retirement of Sir Nigel Rudd and the executive directors appointment of Richard Gillingwater, Committee membership was reviewed.
Each committee has written terms of reference which regarding the re-appointment of any non-executive director are set out below.
at the conclusion of their specified term of office for the continuation or not in service of any director who has Nomination Committee reached the age of 70 Committee Chairman: Norman Askew Committee Members: John Gummer, Michael Kirkwood Committee Secretary: Diane Quinlan concerning any matters relating to the continuation in office of any director at any time During the year, the Committee was chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd concerning the appointment of any director to executive or until his retirement on 31 December 2003.
It also comprised the other office except to the positions of Chairman and Chief other non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
Following Executive, the recommendations for which would be considered the year end, Sir Nigel Rudd retired from the Committee, Norman at a meeting of the Board Askew became Chairman of the Committee and John Poulter and Michael Harper ceased to be members of the Committee.
The concerning directors who are retiring by rotation to be put Committee comprises solely independent non-executive directors.
The Committee meets at least once per year.
There were four The Committee has proposed that Mr Kirkwood and Mr Poulter meetings during the year.
Mr Kirkwood was unable to attend be put forward for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The one meeting and one meeting took place before Mr Askews proposal is consistent with the Committees review of the skills, appointment.
knowledge and experience on the Board and both have been subject to an annual performance evaluation.
The terms of reference of the Committee are: The roles of Mr Kirkwood and Mr Poulter are set out in their to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition letters of appointment.
The Board recommends the re-election of and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any Mr Kirkwood and Mr Poulter because both bring a wide range of adjustments experience and expertise to the Companys affairs and they carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
They play a full part in before making an appointment, evaluate the balance of skills, enabling the Board to arrive at balanced and objective decisions knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this by using personal and professional skills, including knowledge and evaluation, to prepare a description of the role and capabilities experience gained in other businesses and sectors, with integrity required for a particular appointment and independence.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review 2003. to be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when During the year the Committee recommended to the Board that they arise: to ensure on appointment that a candidate has the appointments of Mr Gummer and Mr Poulter be extended for sufficient time to undertake the role and review his commitments: further terms of three years and 18 months respectively.
In addition, and that non-executive directors receive a formal letter detailing their appointment letters were reissued to set out more clearly the role and time commitments, committee service and their time commitments and responsibilities.
involvement in outside board meetings Since the year end, the Committee recommended to the Board to review annually the time required from a non-executive that the appointment of Mr Kirkwood be extended for a further director and undertake an annual performance evaluation to term of three years.
His appointment letter was also reissued to assess whether the non-executive director has devoted sufficient set out more clearly his time commitments and responsibilities.
time to fulfil his duties During the year, the Committee recommended to the Board the to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning, that processes appointment of Mr Askew.
The retiring Chairman was not involved and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior in the selection or appointment of his successor.
Since the year appointments taking into account the challenges and opportunities end, the Committee has recommended to the Board the facing the Company and the skills and expertise needed in appointment of Mr Gillingwater.
The Committee confirms that the future it uses external search consultancies for the recruitment and selection of non-executive directors.
to keep under review the leadership needs of the Company, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Company to compete effectively in the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr marketplace.
Gillingwater will retire at the forthcoming AGM and offer himself 16 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 for election.
The Board recommends the election of determine and monitor suitable performance criteria which need Mr Gillingwater because of his wide investment banking and to be challenging, yet achievable and motivating, and aligned to corporate finance background, as well as considerable mergers the interests of shareholders and acquisitions experience, will be of great benefit to the Kidde Group and its future development.
Further biographical to determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, information about Mr Gillingwater is set out on page 21 of service agreements and any changes to the terms and conditions the Annual Review 2003. of employment for the executive management team, termination payments and compensation commitments including any ex gratia payments or other benefits ensuring Remuneration Committee that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, Committee Chairman: John Poulter are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not Committee Members: Norman Askew, Richard Gillingwater, John Gummer Committee Secretary: Diane Quinlan rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised to be aware of and oversee any major changes in employee During the year, the Committee was chaired by John Poulter benefit structures throughout the Group and comprised all the other non-executive directors except Sir Nigel Rudd.
Since the year end, Mr Gillingwater has joined to approve appointments or promotions where the period of the Committee following his appointment and Mr Kirkwood notice can exceed 12 months has ceased to be a member.
The Committee comprises solely independent non-executive directors.
Members of the Committee to ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
including pensions, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, are fulfilled The Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year and is responsible for the assessment and approval of a broad to establish the selection criteria, select, appoint and set the remuneration strategy for the Group and to determine short and terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise long-term incentive pay structures for the Companys executive the Committee directors and executive management.
to ensure a transparent policy exists to authorise the There were five meetings during the year.
Mr Kirkwood was reimbursement of any claims for expenses from the Chief unable to attend one meeting and one meeting took place before Executive and Chairman.
The Chief Executive and the Director of Human Resources may The terms of reference of the Committee are: attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The Chief Executive and the Director of Human Resources were each invited to determine and agree with the Board the framework for the to attend one meeting during the year.
However, they were not remuneration of the executive directors and such other members involved in any discussions concerning their own remuneration.
of the executive management as it is designated to consider i. e. members of the Executive Committee.
The remuneration The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 8 to 13 of of non-executive directors and the Chairman are a matter for this Report.
the Board Audit Committee in determining such policy, to take into account factors which it deems necessary.
The objective of such policy shall be to ensure Committee Chairman: Michael Kirkwood Committee Members: Richard Gillingwater, John Poulter that members of the executive management of the Company Committee Secretary: Diane Quinlan are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
During the year, the Committee was chaired by Michael Kirkwood The policy shall be designed to attract, retain and motivate and comprised the other non-executive directors.
Since the year individuals of the quality required, taking account of industry, end, Mr Gillingwater has joined the Committee following his market and country benchmarks and the Companys position appointment, Sir Nigel Rudd has retired from the Committee and relative to other companies Mr Gummer and Mr Askew have ceased to be members.
The Committee comprises solely independent non-executive directors to determine targets for any performance related incentive and each member is considered to have recent and relevant schemes operated by the Company financial experience.
to determine the total individual remuneration packages of each The Audit Committee, which meets at least three times a year, executive manager including, where appropriate, bonuses, is responsible for ensuring the preservation of good financial incentive payments and share options practices throughout the Group: to monitor that controls are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to recommend for shareholder approval any long-term incentive to shareholders and to provide, by way of regular meetings, a line schemes for executive management, and generally advise on, of communication between the Board and the external auditors.
17 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement continued There were three meetings during the year.
Sir Nigel Rudd, to review the Companys internal financial control system and Mr Askew and Mr Gummer were each unable to attend the statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement one meeting.
by the Board, and in particular to review: the procedures for identifying business risks and controlling The terms of reference of the Committee are: their financial impact on the Company the Companys policies for preventing or detecting fraud to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the the Companys policies for ensuring that it complies with appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external relevant regulatory and legal requirements auditors and to approve their terms of engagement and the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures remuneration the Companys internal financial and non-financial reporting and internal control framework including Treasury to monitor and review the relationship with the external auditors: their qualification, expertise, resources, independence to receive and review reports released by the internal auditors, and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process consider the major findings of internal investigations and review including their engagement to supply non-audit services and and monitor managements responsiveness to the findings and related fees taking into consideration relevant professional and recommendations regulatory requirements and the audit firms own guidance to review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, to discuss with the external auditor before the audit commences raise concerns about possible improprieties and to ensure that the nature and scope of the audit arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up to review the interim and full year financial statements and any formal announcements before submission to the Board, focusing to review the annual financial statements of the pension funds particularly on: where not reviewed by the Board as a whole any changes in accounting policies and practices and their consistency both on a year to year basis and across the Group to review annually its terms of reference and its own significant financial reporting judgements effectiveness and recommend any changes to the Board significant adjustments resulting from the audit the going concern assumption to review compliance with the Companys Code of Boardroom compliance with accounting standards and Practice.
compliance with Financial Services Authority, London Stock Exchange and legal requirements The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Group Internal Audit and external auditors may attend meetings at the to review, with the external auditors, the findings of their invitation of the Committee.
Each of these were invited to attend work including: every meeting.
In addition, the Group Risk Manager and Group discussion of major issues, problems or reservations Treasurer were invited to attend one meeting during the year.
review key accounting and audit judgements, and There is a separate meeting with the non-executive directors and review levels of errors identified during the audit and obtain external auditors at the end of each meeting.
explanations Delegated Authorities to review and agree the engagement letter issued by the Executive Committee external auditor: review the representation letters before The Board delegates authority for the day-to-day operational signature by management and management letters: review and management of the Companys business to the Executive monitor managements responsiveness to the external auditors Committee, which meets regularly, in accordance with the needs findings and recommendations of the business.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Group Finance Director, divisional managing to approve the appointment or termination of appointment directors, the Director of Business Development, the Director of of the Head of Group Internal Audit who has direct access to Technology, the Director of Human Resources and the Company the Chairman and the Committee and is accountable to the Secretary.
Other representatives from the Kidde Group and Committee external guests are invited to attend as required.
to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys The purpose of the Committee is, on behalf of the Board, to review internal audit function in the overall context of the Companys operational activities and policy issues of the Group, focusing on risk management system, review and approve the internal audit the review of trading results and forecasts and activity relating to functions remit, review and assess the annual internal audit acquisitions and disposals.
It also reviews the nature and extent of programme, ensure co-ordination between the internal and the risks and opportunities including those arising from social, external auditors and that the internal audit function has environmental and ethical matters to which the Company is exposed sufficient freedom, resource and access to information to carry and provides an assessment of how they have been identified, out its role evaluated and managed, and it reports to the Board accordingly.
18 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The operational and policy issues subject to review by the With respect to the appointment of Mr Askew in 2003 and Committee include, but are not limited to: Mr Gillingwater in February 2004, the Nomination Committee prepared detailed job specifications and capabilities required for Strategy the roles analysing the skills, knowledge and experience on the Group policies, operating procedures and guidelines Board and those required of a new Chairman and a new nonVision and mission statement, incorporating objectives and executive director.
External consultants, who have no other values for the Group connection with the Company, were used for the recruitment Organisational structure and selection process.
Resource Technology The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Review of external matters affecting the Group directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Information technology office Mathisen Way, Colnbrook, Slough, Berkshire SL3 0HB Marketing during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes e-commerce e-business prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Human resources Internal controls financial and non-financial Induction Insurance On appointment, a Board appointment pack is provided to the Risk management new non-executive director.
This contains information including Legal the Code of Boardroom Practice and Board authorities, the Group synergies.
memorandum and articles of association and a presentation giving an overview of the Companys businesses.
Site visits are The role of the Executive Committee includes implementing arranged as well as meetings with the Companys advisers and Board policies on risk and control and Board strategies on risk members of the Executive Committee.
Separate induction packs management and corporate social responsibility: ensuring a are provided in respect of membership of Board Committees.
process is in place to identify and evaluate the risks and For example, the Audit Committee induction pack includes opportunities faced by the Company for consideration by the guidance on evaluating auditors, working with auditors, Board: approving the design and monitoring a suitable system company reporting and audit requirements and reviewing auditor of internal control which implements the policies adopted by independence.
The Remuneration Committee induction pack the Board including establishing measures and procedures for contains information on understanding ABI and other guidelines.
This also includes ensuring that all employees have an understanding of the Company, its objectives, the industries Information, development and training and markets in which it operates and the risks and opportunities The Chairman seeks to ensure that the non-executive directors it faces and that an open communication process is in place to receive timely, relevant information, tailored to their needs and ensure feedback.
that they are properly briefed on the issues arising at Board meetings so that they can make an effective contribution as Routine Business Committee Board members.
The Routine Business Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters, the principles or policy of which have been In addition to formal meetings, the Board receives regular agreed by the Board, which are not of sufficient importance to presentations.
These include divisional business presentations from warrant reference to the Board.
This includes matters such as each of the divisional managing directors, strategy presentations registration of share transfers and maintenance of existing bank from the Chief Executive and Director of Business Development, accounts.
The Committee comprises the executive and nonpresentations on risk management and corporate governance executive directors.
matters from the Company Secretary and Group Risk Manager and presentations from the Companys advisers.
The Board as a Appointment, induction, development and evaluation whole, and as individuals, visit many operational sites during the Appointment year.
The Board also participates in the management conference Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three and events with customers and suppliers.
years, subject to a formal review after 18 months.
Mr Gummer, Mr Kirkwood and Mr Poulter have each had their appointments Members of the Board are provided with information on training extended for further terms of, in Mr Gummers and Mr Kirkwoods days, seminars, conferences, courses and workshops and are cases, three years and, in Mr Poulters case, 18 months.
During the year, members of the Board Appointment letters have also been reissued to set out more attended training sessions on topics including: tax, pensions, clearly their time commitments and responsibilities.
shareholder voting and international accounting standards.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at least every three years annually if aged 70 or more.
19 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate governance statement continued Performance evaluation supply non-audit services and related fees taking into consideration In 2002, the Board introduced annual appraisals of the relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the audit performance of the directors which were conducted by the firms own guidance.
During the year, a programme for evaluating Board and Committee effectiveness was introduced based on a selfThe Companys policy on employment of former employees of assessment questionnaire.
This detailed questionnaire includes its external auditor sets out that a period of at least one year questions on compliance, Board functions, conduct of Board must have elapsed since the conclusion of the relevant audit meetings, Board structure, Board committees, Board and before the acceptance by the Company of a member of the audit committee performance, financial and operational reporting, team to a key management position.
A period of at least two strategic planning and strategic objectives, risk management, years must have elapsed since the conclusion of the relevant audit new business opportunities and projects and human resource before the acceptance by the Company of a key audit partner to management.
The questionnaire is completed by all directors at a key management position.
The appointment by the Company the beginning of each year.
The results are collated by the of employees unconnected with the audit of the Company is not Secretary and presented to the Nomination Committee.
The restricted by this policy.
Nomination Committee makes recommendations which are then put in place and a further evaluation is carried out later in the year.
The Audit Committee sets the policy for awarding non-audit work to the auditors and reviews the nature and extent of such work Relations with shareholders and related fees to ensure that independence is maintained.
The The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good Company maintains working relationships with major accounting relationships with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders firms and engages advice from the firm most qualified to provide are kept informed of significant developments.
All awards of non-audit work to  are institutional shareholders are held at least four times a year with approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
During the year, Companys policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services the directors met 113 institutions both shareholders and nonby the auditor.
All assignments, including those awarded to other shareholders, representing 66% of the issued share capital of accountants or auditors, are notified to the Committee.
Where fide the Company, and 22 of the top 25 shareholders.
The Board is minimis issues or an extremely urgent need arises, an appointment briefed at each meeting on investor relations activity and there is may be approved by the Group Finance Director in consultation an annual review of the investor relations programme undertaken with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
by a third party, the results of which are presented to the Board.
The Auditors Report is set out on page 55.
Following his appointment as Chairman, Mr Askew wrote to the largest 29 shareholders, representing 69% of the issued The responsibilities of the directors are set out on page 7. share capital of the Company, setting out the investor relations calendar for the year and inviting them to contact the Internal controls non-executive directors.
The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls to safeguard shareholders investment and The Board also encourages communication with private investors.
In order to discharge that responsibility Each year end, the Company produces an abbreviated Annual effectively, the Board has established clear operating procedures, Review and Summary Financial Statement and a full Annual lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
At the half year, all shareholders receive an Interim Report.
These reports, together with publicly The key elements of the system of internal control are: made trading statements, presentations and webcasts are available on the Companys website www.
All A Policies and Procedures Manual which sets out policies and shareholders receive the Annual Review and, if they choose, provides guidance on establishing and maintaining appropriate the Annual Report together with the Notice of AGM at least controls and operating procedures and lays down a code of 20 working days before the AGM.
At the AGM, the Chairmen business behaviour of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees are available to answer questions.
Proxy votes are disclosed after the Through the Audit and Executive Committees there are resolutions.
A summary of the proceedings at the AGM, including established processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the proxy vote, is made available on the Companys website and significant risks which are faced by the Company.
These upon request to the Company Secretary.
processes have been in place throughout the year and are regularly reviewed by the Board Accountability and Audit Both the Audit Committee and the auditors themselves have A Strategic Risk Review Committee, whose members and safeguards in place to avoid the possibility of the auditors Chairman are appointed by the Executive Committee, meets objectivity and independence being compromised.
The Audit at least three times a year prior to meetings of the Audit Committee monitors and reviews the relationship with the Committee.
The purpose of the Committee is to assess the external auditors: their independence, objectivity and effectiveness scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management including the consideration of audit fees, their engagement to to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and 20 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 non-financial risks to which the Company is exposed.
This involves Going concern confirming the effectiveness of the systems in place: advising the The Board has reviewed and approved the Groups budget for Executive Committee on corporate governance matters: monitoring 2004 and the three-year corporate plan which includes a cash that controls are in force to ensure the integrity of information flow forecast.
It has a reasonable expectation that the Company reported to the Executive Committee and Board: and to drive and the Group will have adequate resources for the foreseeable employee awareness programmes to ensure all employees have the future and, accordingly, the directors consider that the Company necessary knowledge, skills, information and authority to establish, and the Group is a going concern.
operate and monitor the systems of control and minimise risk Pension fund Each operating business and corporate function has produced a The Kidde UK Pension Plan is not controlled by the Board but strategic risk matrix which identifies key business objectives and by the trustees.
The trustees look after the assets of the pension the risks which may affect their achievement.
The likelihood and fund, which are held separately from those of the Company.
impact of each risk is assessed, the control is identified and an The pension scheme funds can only be used in accordance with assessment is made of the effectiveness of the control.
risks and controls are also formally discussed at meetings of the Executive Committee By Order of the Board The business planning cycle is based on the preparation of the D Quinlan strategic medium-term plan, covering a three-year period, Company Secretary supplemented by comprehensive operating plans, issue analysis, 3 March 2004 strategic risk reviews and detailed budgets for the next financial year.
These provide the basis for management to monitor and influence the financial plans and direction of the business The results of the Group are monitored through a performance review process.
This compares current results with the previous year, with budget and with latest forecasts.
The process also includes a range of financial and non-financial key performance indicators and provides for the early identification of risks and opportunities and the instigation of appropriate management action.
The Group has an Internal Audit department.
It has direct communication through to the Audit Committee and works closely with the risk management function.
Monitoring and review process The Board, the Audit, Executive and Strategic Risk Review Committees, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director monitor the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee considers reports from internal and external auditors and from the Executive Committee on internal control.
The Executive Committee considers reports from the Strategic Risk Review Committee.
A risk based control assurance process is operated: this includes internal control reviews by the business and independent examination of controls by the internal audit team.
This process is reinforced each year by both written and verbal representations from management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation during the period by means of the process outlined above and in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
It must be recognised that any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review has revealed nothing which, in the opinion of the Board, indicates that the system is inappropriate or unsatisfactory.
21 Kidde plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
