THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 27 Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2003 The directors confirm that the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council published a new Combined Code on Corporate Governance the new Code which applies to the Company for the year commencing 1 January 2004.
The directors have taken steps to ensure that the main and supporting principles of the new Code have been implemented where appropriate.
The Board The responsibilities and objectives of the Board The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
The composition of the Board The composition of the Board is outlined on page 24.
The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors, and there is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
Mr M A Smith, the Deputy Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director, retires at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr D Morton will become the senior independent non-executive director on 7 May 2004.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
Nigel Keen, the Chairman, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993 and was still considered to be independent when appointed Chairman of the Board in 2000, as required by the new Code.
At the Annual General Meeting every year at least one third of the directors retire from office.
Such rotation of directors ensures that directors submit themselves for re-election regularly, and at least every three years.
The operation of the Board The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is set out at least twelve months in advance.
The Board also delegates certain of its responsibilities to Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees.
Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board Members prior to each Board Meeting.
All directors receive Board Papers prior to the Meetings which include detailed financial information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and the entering into of loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Communications with shareholders The Laird Group, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Companys objectives.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings.
The Companys stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides feedback which is reported to the Board.
In 2003 a formal survey, on a non-attributable basis, covering eighteen of the Companys larger shareholders was commissioned.
Following presentations to analysts and major shareholders of the interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the results are reported to the Board.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director make themselves available for meetings with shareholders.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and institutional shareholders and encourages them to attend.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman gives a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting.
The chairmen of the various Board Committees are available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against or in abstention on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the 2004 Annual General Meeting, will be published on the Companys website.
Copies of all press announcements are posted on the Companys website.
Committees of the Board Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee, chaired by Mr M A Smith comprised the Chairman and all the non-executive directors.
With effect from 1 January 2004 the Audit Committee comprises Mr Smith, Sir Geoffrey Owen and Mr J B McDowall, and Mr Smith has continued as Chairman of the Committee.
The Board ensures that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee, which meets at least four times a year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board.
The Committee reviews The Laird Group PLCs published financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls, and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits and the findings of the audits.
The Chairman of the Board, the Finance Director and the external auditors are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The Committee considers the appointment and terms of engagement of the external auditor and assesses the independence of the external auditor and reviews the auditors policy for the rotation of audit partners.
The Committee assesses annually the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures.
28 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2003 The Committee also agrees the audit fee and recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services so as to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 2 on page 47.
The Committee recommends, through the Board, to the shareholders the re-election of the external auditor at the Annual General Meeting and the authority for the fixing of their remuneration.
The Committee and the auditors meet formally without any executive directors present at least once a year.
The written Terms of Reference of the Committee are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Mr N J Keen and currently comprises the Deputy Chairman and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board.
It reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board.
The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration and Options Committees of the Board were merged with effect from 1 January 2004 into one committee.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr J B McDowall and currently comprising the Chairman, Mr N J Keen, and all the non-executive directors, meets at least twice a year and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and the grant of all options and award of shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board shall not be the chairman of the Committee.
However, the Chairman, who fulfilled the independence criteria at the time of his appointment set out in the new Code on Corporate Governance, is a member of the Committee because the Board considers it essential that he be involved in setting remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings, and at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends the meetings.
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 36.
The written Terms of Reference are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative nature.
Performance of the Board During 2003 the Board commenced a formal internal process in the form of questionnaires, the results of which were discussed by the Board, for the evaluation of its performance.
In 2004 the evaluation of the Boards committees and of individual directors will be undertaken.
Board attendance The Board had nine meetings during 2003.
During the year Mr Smith was unable to attend two meetings and Mr Morton was unable to attend four meetings.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the Meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the Meeting.
There were three Audit Committee meetings during the year, Messrs Smith and Morton were unable to attend one meeting: in Mr Smiths absence the meeting was chaired by Mr Keen.
Four meetings of the Remuneration and Options Committees were held.
Mr Morton was unable to attend one meeting.
One meeting of the Nominations Committee was held, at which there was full attendance.
Internal control The Laird Group PLC is an industrial holding company registered in the UK with businesses located overseas, as well as in the UK.
These activities are organised as subsidiary companies where the directors of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by The Laird Group Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and reviewing their effectiveness lies with The Laird Group Board.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the directors of the subsidiaries.
The Groups executive directors, all of whom are based in the UK, are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of subsidiary companies and reporting to the Board thereon.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
Acquisitions during that period were subject to due diligence prior to their purchase and are required to adopt the Groups procedures thereafter.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
However, these systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
