Corporate governance 44 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance The group is committed to high standards Helmut Mamsch is both the deputy All executive directors have job of corporate governance and has chairman and the senior independent nondescriptions.
The principal role of the complied throughout the period under executive director.
group chief executive is to manage the review with the applicable principles and day-to-day operation and financial provisions set out in the Combined Code The board takes the opportunity afforded performance of the group.
The non- 1998 as incorporated into the UK Listing by the annual general meeting AGM and executive chairman liaises with the group Authority Listing Requirements.
In addition, meetings with institutional investors to chief executive on strategic issues and the group was compliant for the period ensure the companys objectives are manages the board and the AGM.
under review with the requirements of widely communicated and understood.
The board has shareholders are welcomed to the AGM All directors, on joining the company, noted the release of a revised Combined where developments in the business are undergo an induction programme and Code which encompasses a number of explained and the shareholders have the receive ongoing development as required.
recommendations from the Higgs Report opportunity to ask questions.
All Training requirements remain subject to on corporate governance and the Smith preliminary, final and interim results, continuous review.
Regulatory updates Report in respect of the conduct of audit together with other press releases, are are provided during the year to the board committees.
The new Combined Code published on the groups website.
or to specific directors depending upon 2003 is applicable for the 2004 financial Financial reporting is presented in such a whether they participate in individual year.
However, the board believes that it way as to present a balanced and board committees.
is currently substantially compliant with understandable assessment of the the provisions of the new Combined Code companys position and prospects.
The board is subject to an annual and plans to be fully compliant by performance review.
The board has written terms of reference conducted by the chairman and the together with a schedule of matters which company secretary.
The performance The board are reserved for the boards decision.
review comprises a combination of a There is an effective and appropriately These terms of reference are reviewed questionnaire, interview and board constituted board which receives such annually.
Matters reserved for the board discussion.
The evaluation covers the information as is required to properly fulfil include the companys: following areas: its duties.
A minimum of six regular board meetings are held per annum.
At board financial matters including operating board objectives meetings the board will review and budget and strategic plan, interim and board composition consider both routine and ad hoc matters.
preliminary statements, capital board committees In particular the board will consider, and investment, acquisitions or divestments information coverage where necessary debate, the group chief communication executives report, which includes but is group policies including risk management, logistics not limited to: ethics and environmental concerns non-executive director assessment board effectiveness.
budgets and strategy corporate administrative matters such as financial performance and forecasts the size and composition of the board and A report was prepared by the company corporate activities its committees and authorisation levels.
secretary, including recommendations where human resources appropriate.
Any resulting actions will be shareholder and City matters.
Matters falling under the terms of implemented and monitored.
The reference are, when required, dealt with at performance review of the chairman was led The board comprises six non-executive regular board meetings.
Where this is by Helmut Mamsch with other non-executive directors, including the chairman and inappropriate the company secretary is directors without the presence of the deputy chairman, and four executive responsible for ensuring board members chairman or executive directors.
directors who together bring a wide range are advised of the matter.
Procedures for of skills and experience to the board.
All dealing with matters between regular The board annually reviews the directors are obliged to submit themselves board meetings are detailed within the effectiveness of the groups system of for re-election at least every three years.
Following internal control covering all material All non-executive directors, except the consideration by the board certain matters controls, including financial, operational chairman, are deemed to be independent may be delegated to a committee of the and compliance controls and risk in character and judgment by the board or an individual director.
In addition to this company.
The chairman is not deemed to matters may include the approval of stock annual review, the company operates be independent in accordance with the exchange announcements and the grant other procedures to bring relevant internal criteria set out in the new Combined Code of employee share options.
control matters to board attention.
These due to his previous position as executive are explained in the section on internal chairman of CMG plc.
During the period control in this statement.
under review the chairman has held and continues to hold no significant commitments outside of the company.
Corporate governance 45 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 The audit committee, comprising appointments is included in the During the year there was full attendance independent non-executive directors, is committees terms of reference.
The by executive and non-executive directors chaired by Richard North and also nomination committee was convened at all board and committee meetings.
The includes Angela Knight, George Loudon once during 2003. company secretary acts as secretary to and Wim Dik.
The terms of Directors submitting themselves for reference of the boards committees are The board believes that although no re-election at the AGM have been subject available on request and are published on committee member is a financial expert, to a formal performance evaluation.
Richard North has recent and relevant have demonstrated their commitment to financial experience.
Its terms of reference the company and have performed Internal control include the review of the groups annual effectively during the year.
The board is responsible for the groups and interim financial statements, system of internal control and for accounting policies and internal The remuneration committee, which meets reviewing its effectiveness.
The board has management and financial controls.
It also at least five times a year, comprises reviewed the effectiveness of the systems considers the appointment and fees of the independent non-executive directors and is of internal control for the accounting year external auditors and discusses the audit chaired by Angela Knight.
Its other and the period to the approval of the scope as well as the findings and members are Helmut Mamsch and George financial statements.
This review covered management letters arising from audits.
Its key role is to determine the all material controls, including financial, companys senior executive remuneration operational and compliance controls and The committee has approved and is policy and levels of remuneration for the risk management systems.
It should be responsible for approving non-audit work to companys executive committee, the understood that such a system is be undertaken by the companys auditors.
highest paid senior management, company designed to manage rather than eliminate This approval process ensures auditor secretary and head of internal audit.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectivity and independence is Directors remuneration is set at the level objectives, and provides reasonable rather safeguarded.
In addition, it is responsible for necessary to attract and retain the directors than absolute assurance against material the companys internal confidential needed to run the company successfully, misstatement or loss.
disclosure policy, which allows staff to raise this level being set independently by a concerns about possible improprieties.
The groups The group operates a highly structured, remuneration policy and full details of objectives-driven approach to fulfil its core The audit committee meets at least three directors remuneration are set out on purpose and goals in respect of sustained times a year, together with the external pages 36 to 43.
In addition, the profitability and growth.
The chief executive and the remuneration committee oversees the objectives of the group are captured in a group finance director attend the meetings operation of the companys employee strategic plan, developed by the executive at the request of the committee.
committee and approved by the board, which addresses revenue and associated The company has implemented a Executive directors are permitted to costs and necessary investment.
The confidential disclosure whistle-blowing accept and maintain up to two nonstrategic plan then forms the basis of procedure, which utilises a confidential executive appointments at any one time.
annual revenue and profit targets for the helpline manned by an independent Following British Airways recent re-entry operating units in the group.
Any staff concerns are expected to the UK FTSE 100 index, Martin Read to be raised through the companys now has two non-executive appointments The research and development and capital existing procedures.
However, the with FTSE 100 listed companies.
Both of investment programmes are subject to a company recognises the potential need to these appointments were effective prior to formal review procedure requiring that provide access to an anonymous and the publication of the new Combined rigorous qualification criteria be met prior confidential helpline.
to each instance of material investment.
Evaluation and post-investment appraisals The nominations committee is chaired by Since the publication of the new Combined are performed by reference to detailed Cor Stutterheim and also includes Martin Code, it is the companys policy that business plans.
Read, Helmut Mamsch, Wim Dik and individuals will, in future, be unable to George Loudon.
The committee has a commence a second non-executive The monitoring regime established by the majority of non-executive directors.
It appointment with a UK FTSE 100 company.
board, through which the performance evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge Fees earned by executive directors are indicators derived from the strategic and and experience on the board and identifies retained by the relevant director, which annual plans are regularly interrogated, the roles and capabilities required for a reflects the personal risk assumed in such ensure that events, which pose significant particular appointment.
This remuneration is fully risk to the attainment of the groups process for board appointments and disclosed in the relevant companys annual objectives or significant control lapses, are recommends any new appointments to report and accounts.
communicated through a process of rapid the board.
The committee reviews escalation to senior management.
Unit succession plans and training for performance is evaluated on a monthly directors.
The process for board basis, and this evaluation includes the Corporate governance 46 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 addressing of identified control weaknesses The external auditors contribute additional responsible for keeping proper accounting and ensuring the conclusion of previously independent perspective on the overall records which disclose with reasonable recommended corrective actions.
integrity of those areas of the internal accuracy, at any time, the financial control system, which they have assessed position of the group and company and The board acknowledges that the group in the course of their work, and report enable them to ensure that the financial operates in a fluid and rapidly developing their findings at each audit committee statements comply with the Companies business environment.
Changes to the risk meeting.
The audit committee assesses Act 1985.
They are also responsible for profiles in the business environment arise the evidence provided to them through the the groups system of internal control and as a result of both the external challenges various mechanisms and seeks to ensure for safeguarding the assets of the group in a highly competitive marketplace and that the risk management process and company and hence for taking through the internal development of new adequately addresses all of the major risks reasonable steps for the prevention and products, management procedures and to the group.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
As a result, a risk management process has been established, which Going concern By order of the board involves the regular evaluation of inherent The directors, having made enquiries, business risks and the identification of consider that the company and the group P Weaver FCIS controls to address them.
have adequate resources to continue in Company secretary operational existence for the foreseeable 1 March 2004 The board, through the risk management future, and therefore it is appropriate to committee and audit committee, has maintain the going concern basis in reviewed the key business, financial, preparing the financial statements.
operational and compliance risks facing the group: prioritised their significance and Statement of directors responsibilities determined current procedures and The directors are required by United processes in place to detect and address Kingdom company law to prepare financial them.
Risk was assessed with reference to statements for each financial year, which the achievement of the groups business give a true and fair view of the state of objectives.
During 2003, findings of the affairs of the group and company as at the risk assessments of the respective end of the financial year and of the profit companies before the merger have been and cash flows of that year.
In preparing used to better target resources to control those financial statements, the directors the main areas of risk, to enhance the are required to: current risk based internal audit programme and to improve the process of select suitable accounting policies and regular reporting on controls to the board.
then apply them consistently The board has also devised detailed make judgements and estimates that are mechanisms for the monitoring of risk and reasonable and prudent associated controls that provide the core assurance for the internal control regime.
state whether applicable accounting The inherited processes of both Logica standards have been followed, subject to and CMG are inherently similar and have any material departures disclosed and been combined during 2003 to produce a explained in the accounts comprehensive approach to the risk profile of the merged group.
The continuous prepare the accounts on a going monitoring of strategic and operational concern basis unless it is inappropriate risks are the responsibilities of the board to presume that the group and company and line management respectively.
will continue in business Operational guidance on the appropriate be responsible for the maintenance and approach to risk is provided through clearly integrity of the companys website defined delegation of responsibilities and authorisation levels, and by clearly acknowledge that legislation in the UK documented internal procedures that are concerning the preparation and set out in core operating procedures dissemination of financial statements may common to all areas of the group.
The differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
internal audit and quality assurance functions perform regular audits and are The directors confirm that they have part of the fulfilment of line managements complied with the above requirements in risk management responsibilities.
