CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Combined Code In June 1998 the Committee on who is responsible for ensuring compliance with Board Corporate Governance published their final report which procedure and applicable laws and regulation.
Any question comprised two parts: of the removal of the company secretary would be a Board decision.
There is a procedure in place for directors to take a statement of the Principles of Good Governance, and independent professional advice, if necessary, at the a code of best practice, commonly known as the Companys expense.
All directors are entitled to receive Combined Code.
training, either on first appointment or subsequently as necessary.
The Company complies, and has during the year to 30 September 2003 complied, with all the provisions affecting The roles of chairman and chief executive are clearly companies known as section 1 of the Combined Code.
All directors have equal responsibilities as Board members and bring an independent judgement to bear on The purpose of this report is to explain how the Company key issues and standards of conduct, but the Board has been has applied the principles of good governance so far as these structured with the executive directors having responsibility relate to listed companies.
These cover four subject areas: for running the Companys business and the non-executive directors bringing expertise and experience from other fields.
directors: This results in a balanced Board, with no one individual or directors remuneration: group of individuals being able to dominate the Boards relations with shareholders: and decision taking.
In addition, concerns can be conveyed to accountability and audit.
Sir Alastair Morton, who is designated as the Senior Independent Director, in addition to bringing these to the With the exception of the principles relating to directors attention of the chairman.
Using the definition of remuneration which are covered fully in the directors independence contained in the new version of the Combined remuneration report the Board has applied the principles Code, the Board judges all of the non-executive directors to be as follows: independent, with the exception of Sam Jonah.
Under the terms of the definition, Dr Jonah is not independent due to Directors The Company is led and controlled by the Board of his previous executive career with the Group.
However, the directors which currently has ten members, an independent Board believes that independence is a state of mind and as non-executive chairman, four executive directors and five such is not suited to a precise, objective test, and believes that non-executive directors, four of whom the Board judges to Dr Jonah demonstrates independence of judgement.
The Board meets regularly, normally on eight occasions during the year and more frequently if necessary, All directors submit themselves to shareholders for re-election including two meetings in South Africa.
It has a formal after first appointment and then at least every three years.
schedule of matters reserved for its decision, and receives regular and timely information in a form and of a quality to To ensure a formal and transparent procedure for the enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors are encouraged appointment of new directors to the Board, a Nomination to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate.
In addition Committee has been empowered, currently comprising Roger certain directors are also directors of the principal operating Phillimore chairman and Peter Godsoe, both of whom are subsidiaries.
The Board retains full responsibility for the independent directors.
Its function is to review on an ongoing direction and control of the Company and no strategic powers basis and at least annually the membership of the Board and were delegated to any committee in the year under review.
All recommend to the Board any proposed changes, be they directors have access to the services of the company secretary, executive or non-executive.
10 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Relations with shareholders The principles encourage a Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys understanding of objectives.
The directors have regular position and prospects, particularly in the annual review, dialogue with institutional shareholders, where they believe interim report and other published documents and reports this to be in the interests of shareholders generally.
The principles also encourage boards to use the Annual In 1993 the Board established an audit committee which General Meeting to communicate with private investors and during the year comprised Sir Alastair Morton chairman, to encourage their participation, as well as offering some Michael Hartnall from his date of appointment and Roger detailed guidance on procedure in connection with AGMs.
Phillimore, all of whom are independent non-executive The Board has followed these particular principles for many directors.
Sir John Craven was also a member of the years.
The Company also has a website www.
com committee until the date of Mr Hartnalls appointment.
containing up-to-date information on the Groups activities From 1 October 2003, Mr Hartnall has chaired the committee, and investor relations materials.
which meets at least four times a year, including two meetings in South Africa.
The executive directors and the Accountability and audit Directors responsibilities Company external and internal auditors are invited to attend as law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for appropriate.
The committee has written terms of reference, each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state which are regularly reviewed and approved by the Board, and of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or its principal objectives are: loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: to review the Groups accounting policies: to review the annual and half-year financial statements select suitable accounting policies and then apply prior to their submission to the Board: them consistently: to receive reports from the internal auditors on internal make judgements and estimates that are reasonable controls and to review with management and the external and prudent: auditors the effectiveness of all such internal controls: state whether applicable accounting standards have been to review the scope and results of the external audit, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and assess the cost effectiveness of the audit and the explained in the financial statements: independence and objectivity of the auditors, including prepare the financial statements on the going concern their relationship with management: basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group to ensure compliance by the Group with legal and will continue in business.
regulatory requirements, including matters affecting good corporate governance: and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting to receive reports from the risk committee on the effective records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time management of the major risks to which the business is the financial position of the Company and to enable them exposed.
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for The audit committee met five times formally during the taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to year and there were a number of informal contacts between safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and members and the finance director.
detect fraud and other irregularities.
11 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Going concern The directors consider that the Group has The component parts of the Companys approach to managing adequate resources to continue in operational existence for risk, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, include the the foreseeable future, and that it is therefore appropriate following: to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have satisfied themselves that the Executive management is responsible for identifying the Group is in a sound financial position and that sufficient key risks facing each business.
Lonplats and the Group borrowing facilities will be available to meet the Groups produce a risk register identifying their key risks, the foreseeable cash requirements.
probability of those risks occurring, the anticipated impact and the mitigation measures in place.
The risk registers are Internal control and risk management The Company has incorporated into Combined Assurance Plans, which complied with the Combined Code provisions on internal allocate responsibility for managing risk to different layers control.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys of management.
system of internal control whilst management is responsible The Lonplats safety, health and environment SHE for implementing Board policies on risk and control.
Any committee meets quarterly to review operational risk and system of internal control can only be designed to manage, identify ways and means of better managing risk in our rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the business.
business objectives, and cannot provide absolute assurance The risk committee receives regular monitoring reports against material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous and meets three times a year to discuss performance in process for identifying, evaluating and managing the managing the key risks, whether there has been any significant risks faced by the Company which has been in change in these exposures and reviews the role that place for the year under review and up to the date of approval insurance can play in helping to mitigate the Groups risks.
of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company has an The chairman of the audit committee attends meetings of internal audit function which, to maintain independence and the risk committee and provides a full assessment of its accountability, is outsourced to an external provider.
During work to the audit committee.
Copies of its minutes are also the year, the Company decided to transfer this work from its circulated to the audit committee members.
external auditors, KPMG, to Ernst & Young, who hold no other role with the Company.
The audit committee supervised the The audit committee has specific responsibilities for: selection and terms of reference of the new internal auditors.
reviewing the external and internal audit work plans: considering reports from management and the internal The audit committee reviewed with the internal auditors and external auditors on the systems of internal control and management the development of the Companys and any material control weaknesses identified: management of risk, operational, financial and other, discussing with management the actions taken on any associated with its activities as a major mining enterprise issues identified in these reports: and in South Africa.
The risk committee, chaired by the reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management chief executive, reports to the audit committee, whose process and identifying any significant issues which need chairman attends its meetings.
to be referred to the Board for consideration.
The chairman of the audit committee reports the outcome of its meetings to the Board, which also receives the minutes of all audit committee meetings.
12 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board, through reports from the audit committee, considers the significance of SEE matters to the business of then reviews the following: the Group, and receive information within the overall risk review process to enable them to make this assessment.
the outcome of letters of assurance which are completed Their aim is to identify and assess the significant risks to by management confirming compliance throughout the the Groups short and long term value arising from SEE year with the Groups policies, procedures, risk causes, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that management processes and other matters: may arise from addressing these issues.
SEE risks are reports on risk and internal control from management, therefore managed no differently from any other risks using the internal and external auditors, and the Combined the Groups standard policies and procedures for managing Assurance Plans, including schedules of significant risks: all risks on an ongoing basis.
The corporate accountability and statement within the Annual Review contains further reports on how the risks have changed over the year under information on the subject.
review and any issues arising.
Future corporate governance In July 2003 the Financial The Board is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of Reporting Council published a revised version of the Combined the system of internal control, including financial, operational Code, which will apply to accounting periods of companies and compliance controls and risk management, and has commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
Whilst the new undertaken such a review as part of the process of compiling regulation would therefore strictly only apply to the this report.
Companys financial year commencing on 1 October 2004, the Board believes it to be advantageous to give due consideration Social, environmental and ethical SEE risks The Group to the new Combined Code at an early date.
The directors are is committed to high ethical standards so that business can presently assessing how best to give effect to the be conducted honestly, fairly and legally.
To this end the risk recommendations contained in the new Combined Code.
committee and the Lonplats SHE committee regularly 13 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2003
