Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance Application of principles The Company regards compliance with the principles of good governance to be of the utmost importance.
This statement describes how the Company applies the principles contained within the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic direction, the establishment of Group policies and internal controls, and the monitoring of operational performance.
It meets regularly throughout the year and, in addition to the routine reporting of financial and operational issues, reviews each of its trading divisions and key functions in detail.
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and delegates certain powers to the Board Committees and to the Executive Directors, collectively and individually.
There is also a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The schedule of reserved matters is periodically reviewed by the Board and includes annual budgets, strategic plans, approval of major capital expenditure and significant financing.
Information is provided to all Board members in the week prior to a Board meeting to enable them to consider the issues for discussion, and to request clarification or additional information.
The Board regularly reviews the type and amount of information provided.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that procedures are followed.
In addition, there is an agreed procedure for seeking independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
On appointment to the Board, every Director is provided with appropriate training to enable them to discharge their duties as a director.
The Board consists of five Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
This provides a balance whereby no individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision making.
The Chairman of the Board is Mr K Hamill.
Mr S C Thomas is Chief Executive and is responsible for the executive leadership and coordination of the Companys business activities.
Mr J R Williams was the Senior Independent Director during the year under review.
Linda Wilding was appointed to the Board of Luminar Leisure Limited as a non-executive Director in 1990.
The appointment was made to reflect the investment in that Company by Mercury Private Equity, with whom she was a director at the time.
She resigned in 1997 following the withdrawal of Mercury Private Equity as a majority shareholder and was subsequently appointed as a non-executive director of Luminar plc on 3 November 1998.
In view of her knowledge of the Companys affairs and the strength of her contribution, the Board regard her present term as having commenced in 1998.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Board members are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by the Chairman, and consists of all the Non-Executive Directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third or the number nearest to but not exceeding one third of the Directors shall stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Furthermore, the Articles of Association require a Director to stand for re-election if they were not appointed or reappointed at either of the last two annual general meetings.
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed initially for a three-year term and the Company will take into account the balance of skills and experience on the Board, their contribution and level of independence when considering whether to extend their appointment beyond the initial three year term.
16 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Board Committees In accordance with the Combined Code and corporate governance best practice, the Board has established a number of committees.
All of the Committees have written terms of reference, which are described below.
Audit Committee This Committee is chaired by Mr K Hamill and also comprises Mr M K Payne, Mr J R Williams and Mr R J J Wickham.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and reports to the Board on all matters relating to the regulatory and accounting requirements that may affect the Group together with the financial reporting and internal control procedures including the annual and interim financial statements.
In addition, the Committee ensures that an objective and professional relationship is maintained with the external auditors, with particular regard to the nature and extent of any non-audit functions they provide.
The external auditors may attend all meetings and have direct access to the Committee and its Chairman at all times.
The Executive Directors are not members of the Committee, but may attend meetings of the Committee as necessary to facilitate its business.
The Company has an internal audit function, which is charged with ensuring adequate controls exist and are complied with at a unit level over cash and stock.
They also ensure that the standard of operation at unit level is compliant with the requirements of the local authorities for that area.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Linda Wilding, and consists of all the Non Executive Directors.
It operates within its agreed terms of reference in advising the Board on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior executives.
When making its decisions, the views of the Chief Executive are considered and appropriate professional advice is sought where needed.
The Board, excluding the Non Executive Directors, reviews Non Executive Directors fees annually.
The Directors Report on Remuneration, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and approved by the Board, is set out on pages 21 to 28.
Nominations Committee This Committee is chaired by Mr J Williams and also consists of all the Non Executive Directors.
It monitors and reviews the membership of and succession to the Board of Directors and makes recommendations to the Board, inter alia, on the identification and recruitment of potential Executive and Non Executive Directors.
Risk Management Committee The Board is responsible for the Companys risk management process.
It has delegated responsibility for implementing an appropriate risk management programme to a committee comprising Mr A R Burns, Mr J R Williams, Mr A Goldman, Mr Harry Willits Company Secretary and Mr T Steed, who has responsibility for health and safety issues.
The Board sets guidelines on the general level of risk that is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risks and controls.
More details of the operation of this process is given in the Internal Controls section directly below.
Internal Control The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system can only manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This was introduced during the year to 25 February 2001 and has remained in place up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Combined Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, which includes financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
Luminar plc 17 Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
As part of the review process, the Risk Management Committee carried out a detailed review of the current system of internal control and, in particular, the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
During the review process, members of the Risk Management Committee had the opportunity to discuss any areas of concern with management.
In order to ensure that the system of internal control becomes embedded in the operations and culture of the Company, management are required to identify and evaluate the significant risks applicable to their areas of business and design and operate suitable controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may relate to internal and external sources including disruption in information systems, competition and changes in the regulatory environment.
To further improve the monitoring of risks, the Company has recently installed a computerised risk management system.
The system is in the first stage of roll-out and will further ensure that the Companys internal control procedures become embedded in the culture of the Company.
In addition, the Board has established a Risk Management Committee that meets at least three times a year and whose main purposes are as follows: to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary to manage such risks and present their findings to the Board.
to reinforce managements control consciousness and foster a culture within the Group that emphasises risk management.
to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys risk management infrastructure.
to consider the risks of new ventures and other strategic initiatives.
In addition to the major risk review process, the Company operates under an established internal control framework, the key features of which are as follows: Decision Making The full Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational, compliance and risk issues.
A meeting of the Executive Directors takes place each week to make decisions relating to investment issues such as property acquisitions, capital expenditure and important operational issues.
The Company Secretary attends these meetings to ensure that procedures are followed and decisions minuted.
The Operations Committee also meets on a weekly basis to review financial and operating performance.
These meetings are attended by each of the Managing Directors and any issues are reported through to the meeting of the Executive Directors.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The structure is reviewed from time to time to ensure that appropriate controls exist and that financial and operational issues are dealt with in an effective manner.
Financial and Operational Controls There are established procedures for budgeting and planning capital expenditure, together with reporting systems for monitoring the Groups business and performance.
There is a rolling three-year forecast in place, which is used to assess the financial impact of the Companys strategy and there is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board, half-yearly budget and monthly forecasts for the remainder of the financial period.
A monthly report to the Board details the financial performance of the Group for the preceding period versus budget and includes a forecast of future profitability.
Management is accountable to the Directors for the implementation of the system of internal financial control throughout the Group.
This enables the Board to meet its ongoing responsibilities for the integrity and accuracy of the Companys accounting records and ensure that ongoing financial performance is monitored in a timely and corrective manner and that risk is identified as early as practicably possible.
These controls include: Comprehensive budgeting systems with annual budgets for sales, profits, cash and capital expenditure approved by the Board.
Detailed variance analysis of actual results compared to budget on a period and year to date basis.
Constant monitoring and regular review of sales, cash, assets and operational compliance at unit level by the internal audit function.
18 Luminar plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Property Acquisitions and Investment Appraisal The Company has clearly defined guidelines for the acquisition of properties and for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements.
Business Unit Controls Controls and procedures, including information systems controls, are detailed in procedure manuals and other written instructions.
Compliance with these procedures is reviewed by the Companys internal audit function and management at divisional level.
Computer Systems The Company has established controls and procedures over the security of computer equipment and the data held on the systems.
These arrangements are tested regularly and critical procedures and equipment are supported by quick response service contracts.
Key procedures include: Daily tape back up of programmes and data contained on the central computer system.
Weekly offsite storage of tapes by a third party specialist data storage company.
Duplication of essential equipment and services in case of failure.
Environmentally controlled and secure computer room.
The ongoing development of the Lotus Notes database and communication network will further enhance the control of information and procedures.
Examples of the current communications system include: Customer Relations Management systems.
Fully automated purchase order processing and accrual accounting systems.
Comprehensive database containing all property and licensing details.
The Company will continue to pursue the use of information and internet technology to improve control procedures and the efficient flow of data and communications.
Examples of these are: Advanced use of the World Wide Web for marketing and advertising.
Document imaging and storage systems.
Upgraded budget and information reporting packages.
These mechanisms are intended to ensure that Company performance is continually monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their financial implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Luminar plc 19 Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders The Company values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Companys strategy and performance, Board membership and quality of management.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director maintain frequent contact with institutional shareholders through regular meetings and presentations.
Institutional shareholders and analysts are invited to presentations by the Executive Directors immediately after the announcement of the Companys half-year and full-year results.
The Company also issues trading statements at important points of the financial year, and provides an indication of trading at the time of the Annual General Meeting.
The Company also encourages communication with private shareholders, and welcomes their participation at the Annual General Meeting.
It is the policy of the Company that all Directors should attend the AGM, and in particular the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
A separate Resolution is proposed for each substantially separate issue, and the agenda for the AGM includes a resolution adopting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company.
All shareholders are sent details of the AGM at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Unless a poll is requested, details of the proxy votes recorded by our Registrars for and against each Resolution are announced after the result of the vote by show of hands is known.
The Companys principal web site, which can be found at www.
co. uk, contains a large amount of useful information for shareholders.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company considers that it has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code.
It should be noted that Code Provision B1.7 recommends that notice periods for executive directors should be one year or less.
Mr S C Thomas has a service contract that is terminable on not more than two years notice.
For reasons outlined in the Chairmans Statement and the Remuneration Report, the Board believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
Going concern The Directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the Companys financial resources and, having conducted a review of the Companys budget and medium term plans which include capital expenditure projections and cash flow forecasts, have satisfied themselves that adequate resources exist to ensure that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Companys financial statements.
