CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT With effect from April 2004, voting at the AGM will be conducted on The Anglo American Group is committed to the highest standards a poll rather than by a show of hands.
The voting and results of the of business integrity, ethical values and professionalism in all poll will be announced to the press and on the Companys website.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and In the year to 31 December 2003 the board met seven times, the the directors are accountable to the shareholders for doing so.
Audit Committee three times, the Remuneration Committee five The key principles underpinning the governance of the Group are times and the Nomination Committee three times.
The attendance set out in this statement.
at these meetings was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination An effective system of control aimed at managing business risks Board Committee Committee Committee is an integral component of the Groups governance practices, seven three five three details of which are provided in the internal control section below.
meetings meetings meetings meetings Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 7 3 Throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 the Company has been in compliance with the Principles of Good Governance A J Trahar 7 and Code of Best Practice of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority in June 1998.
D J Challen 7 3 5 B E Davison 7 Since its issue in July 2003 the Company has also complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Dr C E Fay 6 3 5 Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Details of the application of the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code and R M Godsell 7 of the previous code are set out below.
A W Lea 7 BOARD OF DIRECTORS G Lindahl 6 The board of directors is responsible to the shareholders for setting the direction of Anglo American through the establishment of R J Margetts 7252 strategic objectives and key policies.
The board meets on a regular 1 Dr M S B Marques n a basis, at least six times a year.
The board considers issues of strategic direction, major acquisitions and disposals and approves W A Nairn 7 major capital expenditure and other matters having a material effect on Anglo American.
Presentations are made to the board by business N F Oppenheimer 7 3 management on the activities of operations and both executive and F T M Phaswana 7353 non-executive directors undertake regular visits to operations and projects.
During 2003 directors visited the Kematen paper mill in Sir David Scholey 7 2 Austria, the Skorpion zinc project in Namibia and the New Denmark colliery in South Africa.
Prof K A L M Van Miert 6 3 3 The composition of the board, with a strong independent element, 1 Appointed 9 December 2003. ensures that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision and authority.
The board comprises four executive and eleven Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as well as non-executive directors, eight of whom are independent according significant experience in financial, commercial and mining activities.
to the definition contained in the Higgs Report published in January As recommended by the Combined Code, all directors have full 2003.
The independent directors are Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, access to internal and external auditors, and are encouraged to stay D J Challen, F T M Phaswana, Prof K A L M Van Miert, Dr C E Fay, fully abreast of the Groups business through site visits and meetings G Lindahl, R J Margetts and Dr M S B Marques appointed with senior management.
Training and briefings are available to all 9 December 2003.
The other non-executive directors are directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking RM Godsell, N F Oppenheimer and Sir David Scholey.
The terms into account existing qualifications and experience.
and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection upon request during normal business In 2003, a formal evaluation of the performance of the board and hours and at the annual general meeting AGM and are referred its committees was carried out, which confirmed that the directors to in the Remuneration Report set out on page 31. contributions remain valid.
The results of the evaluation were discussed at a meeting of the board held in October.
The evaluation With effect from the 2003 AGM, R J Margetts was appointed process included a review chaired by the senior independent as the senior independent non-executive director in place of non-executive director without the chairman present of the Sir David Scholey.
Areas identified for further discussion during this process are being monitored on an ongoing basis.
The chairman is responsible for leading the board and for its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for meetings of the board in All directors have access to management, including the company collaboration with the chief executive.
The chairman, with the secretary, and to such information as is needed to carry out their duties assistance of the company secretary, ensures that the directors and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, all directors are receive timely, accurate and clear information before board meetings entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs and updates of issues arising between meetings.
The chief executive, of Anglo American at its expense.
All directors are subject to election together with the other members of the Executive Committee, by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
is responsible for the overall day-to-day management of the Company.
In addition, directors will retire by rotation and stand for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years in accordance with Anglo Americans articles of association.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Subject to specific fundamental, strategic and formal matters NOMINATION COMMITTEE reserved for its decision, the board delegates certain responsibilities The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the board to a number of standing committees, which operate within defined on the appointment of new executive and non-executive directors, terms of reference laid down by the board, as referred to below.
including making recommendations as to the composition of the The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and board generally and the balance between executive and nonSafety, Health and Environment Committees of the board are executive directors.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when published on the Companys website.
required and engages external consultants to identify appropriate candidates for further consideration.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The board, via the Nomination Committee, has taken steps to ensure EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE that the Human Resources function of the group regularly reviews The chief executive, A J Trahar, chairs the Executive Committee, the and updates the succession plans of directors and senior managers.
membership of which comprises all of the executive directors of the Company, the chief executive officers of Anglo Base and Mondi and During the year the Nomination Committee managed the process the executive vice president responsible for Group human resources of the selection and appointment of a new non-executive director, and business development.
The Committee is empowered and Dr M S B Marques, who was appointed to the board on 9 December responsible for implementing the strategies and policies determined 2003.
External consultants were engaged in this process.
by the board, managing the business and affairs of the Company, A full biography of Dr Marques is contained in the Annual Review.
prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources and establishing best management practices.
The Committee is also In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the responsible for senior management appointments and monitoring Nomination Committee has adopted the terms of reference their performance and acts as the Anglo American risk committee for promulgated by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and the purpose of reviewing and monitoring Anglo Americans systems Administrators.
This document is available upon request and of internal control.
is published on the Companys website.
The Executive Committee presently comprises: A J Trahar chairman, The Nomination Committee presently comprises: F T M Phaswana B E Davison, D A Hathorn, R J King, A W Lea, W A Nairn and chairman, R J Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, N F Oppenheimer, S R Thompson.
Sir David Scholey and Prof K A L M Van Miert.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The role of the Investment Committee, which is a sub-committee Role and responsibilities of the Executive Committee, is to manage the process of capital The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity allocation by ensuring that investments and divestments increase of financial reporting and the audit process, and that a sound risk shareholder value and meet Anglo Americans financial criteria.
management and internal control system is maintained.
In pursuing The Committee makes recommendations to the Executive Committee these objectives the Audit Committee oversees relations with and or the board on these matters.
The Committee meets as required.
the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Investment Committee presently comprises: A W Lea chairman, W A Nairn and P G Whitcutt Head of Finance.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information and has examined REMUNERATION COMMITTEE documentation relating to the Annual Report, Annual Review, The Remuneration Committee, comprising solely independent nonInterim Report, preliminary announcements and related public reports.
executive directors, is responsible for establishing and developing The clarity of disclosures included in the financial statements was Anglo Americans general policy on executive and senior management reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the basis for significant remuneration and determining specific remuneration packages for estimates and judgements.
In assessing the accounting treatment executive directors.
of major transactions open to different approaches, the Committee considered written reports by management and the external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee presently comprises: R J Margetts chairman, D J Challen, Dr C E Fay and F T M Phaswana.
The chief financial officers of all operations have provided confirmation, on a six-monthly basis, that financial and accounting SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT SHE COMMITTEE control frameworks operate satisfactorily.
The Audit Committee The SHE Committee is responsible for developing framework policies considered summaries of the significant risk and control issues and guidelines for safety, health and environment management and arising from these reports.
The Audit Committee also received ensuring the progressive implementation of same throughout the regular internal and external audit reports on the results of audits.
The Committee normally meets four times each year, Further information on risk management processes is provided in including a visit to an operation.
A separate Report to Society 2003 the internal control disclosure statement on page 24. will be published in April.
This report focuses on the safety, health and environmental performance of the Companys managed The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the United Kingdom operations, their performance with regard to the Companys professional and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation Good Citizenship principles and the operational dimensions and employment of former employees of the external auditors have of their social programmes.
The SHE Committee presently comprises: Dr C E Fay chairman, For the purpose of reviewing the actual fees for audit and non-audit B E Davison, R M Godsell, G Lindahl, Dr M S B Marques, Sir Mark work for the Group during 2003, the Audit Committee considered Moody-Stuart, W A Nairn, Sir David Scholey and A J Trahar.
information pertaining to non-audit work and has concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
22 Corporate governance Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED After reviewing a report presented by the external auditors on all results in auditing of own work by the auditors: relationships between the external auditors and Anglo American that may reasonably have a bearing on the external auditors independence results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee and the audit engagement partner and staffs objectivity, and the of the Group: related safeguards and procedures, the Audit Committee has concluded that the external auditors independence was not impaired.
puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group: or The Audit Committee approved the external auditors terms creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and of engagement, scope of work, the process for the 2003 interim the Group.
review, audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
Based on written reports submitted, the Audit Committee reviewed, with the Anglo American has elected to address this issue through two external auditors, the findings of their work and confirmed that primary measures, namely disclosure of the extent and nature of all significant matters have been satisfactorily resolved.
non-audit services and the prohibition of selected services.
Disclosure entails reporting non-audit services to all meetings of the The Audit Committees assessment of the external auditors Groups audit committees and inclusion, as from next year, of performance and independence underpins its recommendation to the prescribed detail in the Annual Reports of listed entities.
The policys board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte & definition of prohibited non-audit services corresponds with the Touche LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2005.
European Commissions recommendations on auditors independence.
Each internal audit function reports directly to an audit committee at Other safeguards encapsulated in the policy include: business or listed company level and is accountable for maintaining Group auditing standards, including risk reporting.
Internal audit the external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy functions mandates and annual audit coverage plans were approved based on best practice and professional standards in the United by the relevant audit committees, which have considered reports on Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation of the audit engagement the results of internal audit work.
A summary of audit results and partner is five years and for any key audit principal seven years.
risk management information was presented, at regular intervals throughout the year, to the Anglo American Audit Committee.
Also any partner designated as a key audit principal of Anglo American tabled were reports submitted by the Groups head of internal audit will not be employed by Anglo American in a key management on internal audit functions performance against Group standards.
position unless a period of at least two years has elapsed since the conclusion of the last relevant audit.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Committee comprises solely independent non-executive the Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work directors.
The dates of appointment and names of those who were is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
members during the year and who currently remain members are: the Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations to the board on the appointment, reappointment D J Challen chairman 9 September 2002 and removal of the external auditors.
appointed chairman 24 April 2003 R J Margetts 19 March 1999 the Audit Committee has the authority to engage independent counsel and other advisors as they determine necessary in order Dr C E Fay 4 June 2001 to resolve issues on auditor independence.
F T M Phaswana 2 September 2002 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Prof K A L M Van Miert 10 May 2002 The directors remuneration report, setting out Anglo Americans policy on executive directors remuneration, benefits, share options, The board, in consultation with the Audit Committee chairman, long term incentive plan and pension entitlements, is set out on makes appointments to the Audit Committee.
pages 25 to 39 of this Annual Report.
A resolution to approve the remuneration report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
As required by the Audit Committees terms of reference, the Committee met three times during 2003 to coincide with key dates RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS within the financial reporting and auditing cycle.
The majority of The Company maintains an active dialogue with its key financial members were present at these meetings, which in respect of two audiences, including institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts and meetings were followed by discussions, independent of management, relationship banks.
The Investor and Corporate Affairs department with the external audit partners and the head of internal audit.
manages the ongoing dialogue with these audiences and regular presentations take place at the time of interim and final results Details of remuneration paid to members of the Audit Committee, as well as during the rest of the year.
An active programme with including the additional fee paid to the chairman of the Audit potential shareholders is also maintained.
Any concerns raised Committee, are set out on page 33. by a shareholder in relation to the Company and its affairs are communicated to the board as a whole.
The board is briefed on Policy on external auditors independence a regular basis by the Investor and Corporate Affairs department Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence, which came into and analyst reports are circulated to the directors.
effect on 1 January 2003, is consistent with the recommendations of the Co-ordinating Group on Audit and Accounting Issues United During the year there have been regular presentations and meetings Kingdom, published on 29 January 2003. with institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, Europe and the USA to communicate the strategy and performance of Anglo A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack of American.
Executive directors as well as key corporate officers host control over non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
The chairman is also available In essence, the external auditors independence is deemed to be to shareholders to discuss any matter they wish to raise.
The impaired if the auditors provide a service which: Companys website www.
co. uk provides the latest and historical financial and other information on Anglo American.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate governance 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Shareholders will have the opportunity at the forthcoming AGM, is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Executive notice of which is contained in the booklet enclosed herewith, Committee and the board on the effectiveness of the risk to put questions to the board, including the chairmen of the various management process throughout the Group.
Facilities have been put in place to enable shareholders to receive company communications electronically rather than by mail Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal control, and to cast their AGM votes by telephone or by electronic means.
based on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates and joint ventures.
Where this is not possible, the ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT directors who are represented on these organisations boards seek The board is required to present a balanced and understandable assurance that significant risks are being managed.
assessment of Anglo Americans financial position and prospects.
Such assessment is provided in the chairmans and chief executives In terms of a policy on whistleblowing approved by the Executive statements set out on pages 2 to 5 and the financial review set out Committee, Anglo American has commenced implementation of on pages 6 to 17 of this Annual Report.
The respective responsibilities a whistleblowing programme throughout its managed operations.
of the directors and external auditors are set out on pages 40 and The programme provides the communication means to enable our 41.
As referred to in the directors report on page 18, the directors employees, suppliers, business partners and other stakeholders to have expressed their view that Anglo Americans business is a raise concerns about conduct contrary to our values and to make a going concern.
contribution in those areas of our business activities where ethical behaviour is particularly important.
Conduct which is contrary to INTERNAL CONTROL DISCLOSURE our values includes: The Executive Committee, as mandated by the board, has established a Group-wide system of internal control to manage actions that may result in danger to the health and or safety significant Group risks.
This system supports the board in discharging of people or damage to the environment: its responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of risks, associated with the Groups diverse international operations, is effectively unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting controls, managed in support of the creation and preservation of shareholder financial reporting and auditing matters: wealth.
The boards policy on risk management encompasses all significant business risks to the Group, including financial, operational criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and compliance risk, which could undermine the achievement of and corruption: business objectives.
This system of risk management is designed so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt their failure to comply with any legal obligation: risk management processes to suit their specific circumstances.
This flexible approach has the commitment of the Groups senior miscarriage of justice: management.
There is clear accountability for risk management, which is a key performance area of line managers throughout the any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in our Group.
The requisite risk and control capability is assured through Good Citizenship Business Principles or any similar policy: board challenge and appropriate management selection and skills development.
Managers are supported in giving effect to their risk any other legal or ethical concern: and responsibilities through policies and guidelines on risk and control management.
Continuous monitoring of risk and control processes, concealment of any of the above.
across 13 significant Group-wide risk areas and other businessspecific risk areas, provides the basis for regular and exception This programme makes available a selection of telephonic, email, webreporting to business management and boards, the Executive based and surface mail communication channels to any person in the Committee and the board.
world who has information about unethical practice in Anglo American plc and its subsidiaries.
The communication facilities are managed and The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide operated by an independent company to enable employees, service the board with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
providers and suppliers to raise any concerns in confidence.
The reports to the board, which are submitted at least every six months, include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives and their management, the board considers the key findings from the ongoing effectiveness.
monitoring and reporting processes, management assertions and independent assurance reports.
The board also takes account of The system of internal control, which is embedded in all key material changes and trends in the risk profile and considers whether operations, provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the control system, including reporting, adequately supports the the Groups business objectives will be achieved within the risk board in achieving its risk management objectives.
tolerance levels defined by the board.
Regular management reporting, which provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, During the course of the year the board considered the Groups is an important component of board assurance.
In addition, certain responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
The board committees focus on specific risks such as safety of people board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which has been and capital investment and provide assurance to the board on those operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the matters.
The chief financial officers provide confirmation, on a six Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the monthly basis, that financial and accounting control frameworks have significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull operated satisfactorily.
The board also receives assurance from the guidelines.
This includes social, environmental and ethical risks as Audit Committee, which derives its information, in part, from regular highlighted in the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible internal and external audit reports on risk and internal control Investment issued by the Association of British Insurers.
The Groups internal audit functions have report on social, environmental and ethical issues will be included a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors in the Anglo American plc Report to Society 2003. to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls and to eliminate duplication of effort.
The Anglo American internal audit function 24 Corporate governance Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Role of the Remuneration Committee and terms of reference The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the board on: the Companys general policy on executive and senior management remuneration: the specific remuneration packages for executive directors of the Company, including basic salary, performance-based short and long term incentives, pensions, and other benefits: and the operation of the Companys share incentive schemes.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Anglo American website and copies are available on request.
The Committee met five times during 2003.
Membership of the Committee The Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors during the year ended 31 December 2003: R J Margetts chairman : D J Challen: Dr C E Fay: and F T M Phaswana.
The Companys chairman and the chief executive attend the Committee meetings by invitation and assist the Committee in its considerations, except when issues relating to their own compensation are discussed.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
In 2003 the Committee was advised by R J King and C B Corrin Group Human Resources, the Companys Finance function and the following external advisors: Ernst & Young LLP appointed by the Committee as independent advisors to the Committee to carry out a review of the Companys long term incentive schemes: Monks Partnership a subsidiary of  LLP appointed by the Company, with the agreement of the Committee, to provide market remuneration information throughout the year:  LLP appointed by the Company, with the agreement of the Committee, to provide specialist valuation services.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Mercer is engaged by the Committee to review the Committees processes on an annual basis in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes that the Company and the Committee have followed are in line with the stated policy as set out below, and that the Committee has operated within its Terms of Reference.
A summary of the letter from Mercer containing the conclusions of their review of the Committees executive remuneration processes for 2003 can be found on page 39, whilst the full letter can be found on the Companys website.
In 2003 the advisors to the Committee provided other services to the Company in the UK on the following basis: Advisors Nature of other services Ernst & Young LLP General tax advice  LLP Taxation and payroll advice: investment advisors and actuaries for various UK pension schemes: advisors on internal audit projects Mercer group companies Investment advisors and actuaries for various UK and overseas pension schemes Certain overseas operations within the Group are provided with audit and non-audit related services from Ernst & Youngs,  and Mercers worldwide member firms.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have not provided advice to the Committee: however, in their capacity as group auditors, they do undertake an audit of all remuneration elements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 25 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY Principles of executive remuneration Anglo Americans remuneration policy is formulated to attract and retain high calibre executives and motivate them to develop and implement the Companys business strategy in order to optimise long term shareholder value creation.
It is the intention that this policy should conform to best practice standards and that it will apply for 2004 and subsequent years, subject to ongoing review as appropriate.
The policy is framed around the following key principles: total rewards will be set at levels that are sufficiently competitive to enable the recruitment and retention of high calibre executives: total incentive-based rewards will be earned through the achievement of demanding performance conditions consistent with shareholder interests: incentive plans, performance measures and targets will be structured to operate soundly throughout the business cycle: the design of long term incentives will be prudent and will not expose shareholders to unreasonable financial risk: in considering market positioning of reward elements, account will be taken of the performance of the Company and of the individual executive director: and reward practice will conform to best practice standards as far as reasonably practicable.
Representatives of the Companys principal investors are consulted on changes to remuneration policy.
Elements of executive director remuneration Each executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual bonus, long term incentives and benefits.
An appropriate balance is maintained between fixed and performance-related remuneration and between elements linked to short term financial performance and those linked to longer term shareholder value creation.
Assuming on-target performance, the Committees policy is that around 50% around 60% for the chief executive or more of total executive 1 director remuneration is performance-related.
In 2003, on average, 57% of executive directors actual remuneration was performancerelated see illustrative chart below.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS % 33 43 Fixed remuneration includes basic salary and benefits Performance-related annual bonus includes payments in cash and awards in shares 24 Performance-related long term incentives includes a share element and options During 2003 the Committee reviewed the effectiveness and overall balance of the Companys incentive plans.
The Committee found that the significant impact of both foreign exchange rates and commodity price cycles on the Companys share price resulted in share option payouts that were influenced more by the phasing of the business cycle than by the management performance of option plan participants.
This meant that the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme was, from time to time, not always acting as an effective incentive.
In addition, the Committee was concerned that some features of the existing arrangements were not aligned with institutional shareholders guidelines on executive remuneration.
As a result of this review, and subject to shareholder approval, the Committee will amend the remuneration arrangements for executive directors and certain other executives from 2004 onwards.
The new proposals involve reshaping the annual bonus plan to create better linkage between short and long term performance and discontinuing future grants under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, other than for use in recruitment or other exceptional circumstances.
The Committee believes that the proposed amendments to the remuneration arrangements will better enable the Company to retain key talent, ensure the competitiveness of the remuneration packages offered to executives and more clearly underpin the Companys existing performance culture by creating a better linkage between shareholder value creation and executive reward realisation.
The level of share-based remuneration within the reward mix will ensure that executive directors and other levels of management have an enhanced level of exposure to the Companys share performance.
1 Based on expected values of shareand option-based awards.
26 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Basic salary The basic salary of the executive directors is reviewed annually and is targeted at the median of companies of comparable size, market sector, business complexity and international scope.
Company performance, individual performance and changes in responsibilities are also taken into consideration in setting salary levels each year.
The Companys policy with regard to basic salaries for executive directors remains unchanged by the Committees remuneration review.
Annual bonus plan Subject to shareholder approval, in 2004 in respect of the 2003 bonus award all executive directors will be eligible to participate in a new annual bonus plan, the Bonus Share Plan BSP, which will replace the Deferred Bonus Plan and the ESOS.
The use of this plan will strengthen the linkage of rewards to performance: the new plan will also require executive directors to invest a greater proportion of their remuneration in shares, thereby more closely aligning their interests with those of shareholders, and will encourage management at all levels to build up a personal stake in the Company.
Awards under the BSP will be made annually and will consist of three elements: a performance-related cash element, a Bonus Share element and an Enhancement Share element.
These bonus awards will not be pensionable.
In summary, the BSP will operate as follows: The value of the bonus will be calculated by reference to achievement against annual performance targets.
The performance measures for the BSP will include measures of corporate and, where applicable, business unit performance as well as the achievement of specific individual objectives.
The corporate element is based on stretching Earnings Per Share EPS targets.
EPS is calculated in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 14, using the headline earnings measure, the definition of which can be found in note 12 of the financial statements.
The Committee will review measures annually to ensure they remain appropriate, given the economic context and performance expectations for the Company and its operating businesses, and are sufficiently stretching.
It is the Committees usual policy to base 70% of each annual bonus award on the corporate or business measure and the remaining 30% on key personal performance measures.
The level of bonuses payable will be reduced if certain overall safety improvement targets are not met.
Bonus potentials will be set on an individual basis.
In the case of the directors and top tier of management, half of the bonus will be paid in cash.
In 2004, it is the intention of the Committee that the cash element will not exceed 75% of basic salary for the chief executive and 60% of basic salary for the other executive directors.
The other half of the bonus will take the form of a conditional award of Bonus Shares equal in value to the cash element, which will be made at the same time as the annual cash bonus.
These Bonus Shares will only vest if the participant remains in employment with the Group until the end of a three year holding period.
An additional performance related incentive will be provided in the form of an award of conditional Enhancement Shares at the same time as the award of Bonus Shares.
The maximum potential at face value of the Enhancement Shares is 75% of the face value of the Bonus Shares.
Awards of Enhancement Shares will vest after three years only to the extent that a challenging performance condition, based on earnings per share growth against the UK Retail Price Index RPI, is met, as shown below: VESTING OF ENHANCEMENT SHARES % 75 33 0 RPI 3% RPI 6% RPI 9% RPI 12% RPI 15% EPS growth over three years Real EPS calculated in accordance with FRS 14 was selected as the most appropriate performance measure for this plan because it is a fundamental financial performance indicator, both internally and externally, and links directly to Anglo Americans long term objectives of maintaining and improving earnings.
At the end of each performance period, the level of performance achieved and the proportion of awards vesting will be published in the subsequent remuneration report.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 27 Additional percentage of Bonus Shares acquired REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In 2004, only executive directors and top management circa 50 individuals will participate in the BSP.
In 2005, it is intended that participation in the BSP will be extended to other tiers of management globally circa 1,300 individuals, who will thereafter cease to receive grants under the ESOS.
The performance conditions attaching to awards under the plan may be amended by the Committee only to the extent that they are a fairer measure of performance, consistent with the original performance conditions and no less demanding.
Share option schemes Subject to shareholder approval of the BSP, it is the current intention that no further share option grants will be made to executive directors under the ESOS, other than for specific recruitment purposes and in other exceptional circumstances.
Executive directors will remain eligible to participate in the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP schemes.
As these schemes are open to all UK employees, performance conditions do not apply.
Long term incentive plan LTIP Grant levels Under the Committees proposed new executive incentive arrangements, conditional LTIP awards will continue to be made annually to executive directors.
Following the review of the Companys incentive plans and in light of the replacement of the Deferred Bonus Plan and the ESOS, primarily with the BSP, it is proposed that awards under the LTIP are increased to provide market competitive total remuneration levels with appropriate gearing to long term performance.
Subject to shareholder approval of the BSP, awards under the LTIP will be increased to 160% from 120% of basic salary for the chief executive and to 130% from 100% of basic salary for the other executive directors.
These awards are discretionary and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
In exceptional circumstances and in order to accommodate changing market conditions, awards may be made to each executive director of up to a maximum of two times basic salary per annum.
As in previous years, vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of stretching performance measures, relating to Total Shareholder Return TSR and to an operating measure, currently Return On Capital Employed ROCE, over a fixed three year period.
For awards made in 2004 and thereafter, half of each award made to a director will be subject to a Group TSR measure while the other half of each award will be subject to a Group ROCE measure.
There will be no retesting of performance.
These performance measures are selected on the basis that they clearly foster the creation of shareholder value.
At the end of each performance period, the level of ROCE performance achieved and the level of award earned will be verified by the Companys auditors and published in the subsequent remuneration report.
Although there is currently no expectation of any change, the Committee may amend the performance conditions applying to any award, provided that the amended conditions are no less demanding, are a fairer measure of performance or provide a more effective incentive to the participant and that circumstances merit such a change.
The LTIP closely aligns the interests of shareholders and executive directors by rewarding superior shareholder and financial performance and by encouraging executives to build up a shareholding in the Company.
Detailed structure of the LTIP In previous years, executive directors with direct divisional responsibility were measured partially on divisional ROCE as well as Group ROCE.
However, for awards made in 2004 and thereafter, the Committee has decided that the ROCE target applicable to all directors will be a Group one alone, which will remove an area of unnecessary complexity from the LTIP arrangements.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The Committee considers comparative TSR to be a suitable long term performance measure for the Companys LTIP awards, as it aligns executives with shareholders.
Executives benefit only if shareholders have enjoyed returns on their investment which are superior to those that could have been obtained in other comparable companies.
The vesting of that part of the LTIP award contingent upon TSR performance varies according to the Companys TSR over the performance period, relative to a weighted basket of international natural resource companies the Index.
The Index comprises three categories: the first consists of a minimum of five international diversified mining companies, the second a minimum of five international paper and packaging companies and the third a minimum of four international industrial minerals companies.
Each category is weighted to reflect Anglo Americans business mix.
The Committee may amend the list of comparator companies in the Index, and the relative weightings, if circumstances make this necessary for example, as a result of takeovers or mergers of comparator companies in the Index.
In calculating TSR, it is assumed that all dividends are reinvested.
28 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For awards made in 2003, the companies constituting the Index were as follows and no material change is envisaged in 2004: Mining Paper and Packaging Industrial Minerals Category weighting 71% 17% 12% Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc M-real Corporation Aggregate Industries plc Companhia Vale do Rio Doce Sappi Limited CRH plc Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc SCA Hanson plc Kumba Resources Limited David S. Smith Holdings plc RMC Group plc Noranda Inc Stora Enso Oyj Rio Tinto plc UPM-Kymmene Group Teck Cominco Limited WMC Resources Limited Xstrata plc Shares contingent on TSR performance will vest as follows: Anglo Americans relative TSR Proportion of TSR element vesting Below the weighted average TSR of the Index 0% Equal to the weighted average TSR of the Index 50% Equal to the weighted average TSR of the top two companies in each category 100% Equal to or greater than the weighted average TSR of the top company in each category 150% Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between 50% and 100% and between 100% and 150% as described above.
A graph showing the Companys TSR performance against the weighted average of the Index as shown above for the period from 24 May 1999, when the Company was first listed, to 31 December 2003 can be found on page 32: for the purposes of drawing this graph Companhia Vale do Rio Doce and Xstrata plc were excluded as they were not listed at the beginning of the period depicted by the graph.
Return On Capital Employed ROCE Group ROCE is the second performance measure for LTIP grants.
The board considers this to be among the most important factors which drive sustainable improvements in shareholder value in a natural resources business, as well as one of the most important measures of differentiation in performance in this sector.
The proportion of shares vesting based on Group ROCE will vary according to the degree of improvement in the Groups average annualised ROCE over the performance period.
The Committee sets minimum targets for improvement in returns on both capital employed for the financial year preceding the start of the performance period Existing Capital Employed and on the additional capital employed during the performance period Incremental Capital Employed.
The maximum ROCE targets are based on stretching levels of return on the Existing Capital Employed.
The targets for each element of the 2003 LTIP are shown below.
These are adjusted for movements in commodity prices, certain foreign exchange rate effects, capital in progress and for relevant changes in the composition of the Group.
Existing Incremental capital capital employed employed Minimum ROCE Target 20.4% 13.0% Maximum ROCE Target 22.4% 13.0% The ROCE elements of the award vest as shown in the table below: Proportion of ROCE element vesting Below or equal to the Minimum Target 0% Equal to or greater than the Maximum Target 100% Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the Minimum Target and the Maximum Target.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 29 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pensions Pension and life insurance benefits for executive directors reflect practice in the countries in which they perform their principal duties.
Pension arrangements are tailored to take account of historic obligations and, insofar as agreed by the Committee, the personal circumstances of each executive.
Details of individual pension arrangements are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Other benefits Executive directors are entitled to the provision of either a car allowance or a fully expensed car, medical insurance, death and disability insurance, social club membership in accordance with local market practice, limited personal taxation advice and reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
Directors based in South Africa are eligible to receive housing loan subsidies at a preferential interest rate in accordance with local market practice.
The provision of these benefits is considered to be market competitive in the appropriate locality for executive director positions.
Executive shareholding targets Within five years of their appointment, executive directors are expected to acquire a holding of shares with a value of two times basic salary in the case of the chief executive and one times basic salary in the case of other executive directors.
External appointments Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the approval of the board: if approved, they may retain the fees payable from one such appointment.
Policy on non-executive directors remuneration Non-executive directors remuneration is approved by the board as a whole on the recommendation of the chairman and executive directors.
The Companys policy on non-executive directors remuneration is based on the following key principles: Remuneration should be: sufficient to attract and retain world-class non-executive talent: consistent with recognised best practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration: in the form of cash fees, payable quarterly, but with the flexibility to forgo all or part of such fees, to subscribe for shares in the Company if the non-executive director so wishes after deduction of applicable income tax and social security contributions : and set by reference to the responsibilities taken on by the non-executives in chairing the board and its committees.
Non-executive directors may not participate in the Companys annual bonus plan, share option schemes, long term incentive plan or pension arrangements.
The board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically to ensure they remain market competitive.
Additional fees are paid to the chairmen of board committees and to the senior independent director.
Where non-executive directors have executive board roles within subsidiaries of the Company, then they may also receive additional remuneration on account of these increased responsibilities.
With the exception of R M Godsell, who is remunerated by AngloGold in his capacity as its chief executive, none of the non-executive directors has any such role.
Chairmans fees The chairmans fees are approved by the board in the absence of the chairman on the recommendation of the Committee and chief executive, who take external advice on market comparators.
30 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that the period of notice for executive directors will not exceed 12 months.
In order properly to reflect their spread of responsibilities, all the executive directors, with the exception of A W Lea, who is employed by Anglo American International BVI Limited, have contracts with Anglo American International IOM Limited and with Anglo Operations Limited.
The salaries under these contracts are payable in sterling and or South African rand as appropriate.
The employment contracts of all executive directors are terminable at 12 months notice by either party.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, subject to reappointment at the annual general meeting.
In addition to his letter of appointment with the Company, R M Godsell has a service contract with AngloGold Limited, an independently managed subsidiary of the Company, in his capacity as its chief executive.
Under this contract, his employment may be terminated by either party giving to the other 12 months notice.
Executive directors Notice period Date of appointment AGM re-election A J Trahar chief executive 12 months 19 April 1999 10 May 2002 B E Davison 12 months 15 May 2001 A W Lea 12 months 19 April 1999 15 May 2001 W A Nairn 12 months 15 May 2001 1 2 Non-executive directors Date of letter of appointment AGM re-election Sir Mark Moody-Stuart chairman 19 July 2002 D J Challen 20 September 2002 Dr C E Fay 15 April 1999 15 May 2001 R M Godsell 15 April 1999 10 May 2002 G Lindahl 27 September 2001 R J Margetts 15 April 1999 15 May 2001 Dr M S B Marques 11 December 2003 N F Oppenheimer 15 April 1999 15 May 2001 F T M Phaswana 21 June 2002 Sir David Scholey 6 December 1999 25 April 2003 Prof K A L M Van Miert 25 March 2002 1 At each annual general meeting AGM all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from office.
Details of those retiring by rotation this year are contained in the Notice of AGM.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
2 There is no fixed notice period: however, the Company may in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, by Ordinary Resolution of which special notice has been given, remove any director from office.
The contracts of executive directors contain a provision that sets out the compensation payable in lieu of notice if the Company terminates the contract other than for cause or if the executive director resigns in circumstances where there has been a material adverse change in role, responsibilities or remuneration.
Compensation is based on the value of 12 months basic salary, target annual bonus for 12 months and the annual value of benefits.
The Company may choose whether to continue to provide other benefits during the notice period or to pay an amount equal to the gross value of these benefits over the period.
Although the Committee notes that this policy is not in complete compliance with the very latest ABI guidelines, it enables the Company to remain market competitive.
Should market practice move away from the inclusion of liquidated damages in service contracts, the Committee will review this policy in 2004 for new appointments to the board.
Vesting of share options on termination of an executive directors contract is dependent upon the reasons the contract is terminated.
Performance conditions fall away in the event of redundancy.
However, if the executive resigns voluntarily, then all options lapse unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In the case of LTIP interests, if a director resigns voluntarily, then his interests lapse.
If he is made redundant, vesting at the end of the performance period is based on the normal performance criteria and then pro rated for the proportion of the performance period for which the director served.
In the case of the proposed Bonus Share Plan, no share awards would vest should a director resign before the end of the three year vesting period, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
If a director is made redundant, his her share awards would vest pro rata for the proportion of the vesting period for which he she served.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 31 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Historic comparative TSR performance graphs The graphs below represent the comparative TSR performance of the Company from 24 May 1999 to 31 December 2003.
In drawing these graphs it has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
180 180 160 160 140 140 120 120 100 100 80 80 60 60 99 00 01 02 03 99 00 01 02 03 Anglo American Anglo American FTSE 100 LTIP Comparator Group The first graph shows the Companys performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index, chosen as being a broad equity market index consisting of companies of comparable size and complexity to Anglo American.
This graph has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The second graph shows the Companys performance against the weighted comparator group used to measure company performance for the purposes of the vesting of LTIP interests granted in 2001.
This graph gives an indication of how Anglo American is performing against the targets in place for LTIP interests already granted, although the specifics of the comparator companies for each years interests may vary to reflect changes such as mergers and acquisitions amongst the Companys competitors or changes to the Companys business mix.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is calculated in accordance with the LTIP rules.
In particular, TSR is calculated in US dollars, and the TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the six month period up to and including that date.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES DURING 2003 The information set out in the sections one to six below has been subject to audit.
1 Directors emoluments The following tables set out an analysis of the pre-tax remuneration during the years ended 31 December 2003 and 2002, including bonuses but excluding pensions, for individual directors who held office in the Company during the year ended 31 December 2003.
Basic salary sacrificed into international Approved Annual 1 1 2 Basic salary Pension Scheme performance bonus Benefits in kind Total 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 3 Executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A J Trahar 729 675 81 75 563 499 51 43 1,424 1,292 B E Davison 392 360 43 40 144 163 24 16 603 579 A W Lea 475 445 192 198 22 20 689 663 W A Nairn 342 320 38 35 156 161 31 21 567 537 1 In view of A J Trahar, B E Davison and W A Nairn having no provision for past service in respect of their sterling denominated pension fund, their employing company has contractually agreed that supplementary pension contributions should be made to the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in return for these executives having given up their right to part of their future basic salary.
The table above includes these amounts, which are 81,000, 43,000 and 38,000 respectively.
32 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2 Each director receives a car allowance or a fully expensed car and a limited amount of personal taxation advice.
All directors receive death and disability insurance and, with the exception of W A Nairn, also receive medical insurance.
A J Trahar, A W Lea and W A Nairn receive club membership: in addition, A J Trahar receives a housing loan subsidy.
3 Subsequent to their retirement from the board in 2001, L Boyd and M W King have provided consultancy services to the Group and hold non-executive directorships with certain listed subsidiaries of the Group.
They received fees of 29,000 and 26,000, respectively, for the provision of these services during 2003.
Fees Other emoluments Total 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 1 Non-executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 300 42 300 42 2 J Ogilvie Thompson retired 30 November 2002 298 53 351 D J Challen 52 14 52 14 Viscount Davignon retired 10 May 2002 20 20 Dr C E Fay 55 55 55 55 3 4 R M Godsell 47 47 583 448 630 495 G Lindahl 45 56 45 56 R J Margetts 65 61 65 61 Dr M S B Marques appointed 9 December 2003 3 3 3 N F Oppenheimer 58 54 58 54 3 F T M Phaswana 54 25 54 25 Sir David Scholey 48 55 48 55 Prof K A L M Van Miert 45 36 45 36 P S Wilmot-Sitwell retired 10 May 2002 16 16 1 Each non-executive director, with the exception of Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, is paid a fee of 45,000 per annum, and those non-executive directors who act as chairmen of the Audit Committee, SHE Committee and Remuneration Committee are paid an additional sum of 10,000 per annum.
The chairman of the Nomination Committee is paid an additional sum of 5,000 per annum.
R J Margetts received additional fees of 10,000 in his capacity as senior independent director.
2 Subsequent to his retirement from the board in 2002, J Ogilvie Thompson has provided consultancy services to the Group and held a non-executive directorship with a listed subsidiary of the Group.
He received fees of 21,000 for the provision of these services in 2003.
3 R M Godsell, N F Oppenheimer and F T M Phaswana received fees for their services as non-executive directors of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited amounting to 2,000, 2,000 and 6,000 respectively.
N F Oppenheimer also received fees of 11,000 from AngloGold as a non-executive director of that company.
4 Under R M Godsells service contract with AngloGold, his basic salary was equivalent to 435,000 per annum 2002: 280,000 and he was awarded a performance bonus equivalent to 133,000 2002: 156,000.
R M Godsell is also entitled to the provision of a car allowance, medical insurance and death and disability insurance.
The total value of these benefits was equivalent to 15,000 2002: 12,000.
2 Directors share options Anglo American plc Weighted Beneficial Beneficial average holding at holding at exercise Earliest date 1 January 31 December price from which Latest 1 4 5 Roll-over options 2003 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2003 rand exercisable expiry date A J Trahar 88,000 83,000 5,000 51.25 1 3 2001 16 2 2008 W A Nairn 102,000 20,000 82,000 51.25 11 8 2001 16 2 2008 2 3 Anglo American options A J Trahar 373,512 230,000 603,512 9.35 24 6 2002 4 3 2013 B E Davison 149,000 90,000 239,000 9.30 24 6 2002 4 3 2013 A W Lea 313,608 98,000 100,000 311,608 9.05 24 6 2002 4 3 2013 W A Nairn 136,029 60,000 196,029 9.30 24 6 2002 4 3 2013 1 Certain of the executive directors were granted share options prior to 1 January 1999 under a previous share option scheme operated by Anglo American Corporation of South Africa Limited which were rolled over into Anglo American options.
2 Share options in respect of shares, the market price for which as at 31 December 2003 is equal to, or exceeds, the option exercise price.
As at 31 December 2003, there were no share options with an exercise price above the market price.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 33 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 3 Options were granted having UK Inland Revenue approval Approved Options and without such approval Unapproved Options.
The exercise of the options is subject to Anglo Americans EPS calculated in accordance with FRS 14, based on the Companys headline earnings measure increasing by at least 6% above the UK Retail Price Index over a three year period.
The EPS growth requirement takes account of the cyclical nature of the natural resources business.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of the first three year period, then performance is retested each year over the ten year life of the option on a rolling three year basis.
Options are normally exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the performance condition, between three and ten years from the date of grant.
4 The options awarded in March 2003 in respect of the Executive Share Option Scheme were granted at an exercise price of 9.28, which reflected the price ruling at the date of grant.
These share options are exercisable between 5 March 2006 and 4 March 2013.
In the light of managements very successful performance in 2002, and mindful of the need to keep long term incentives competitive in the context of the share price performance in 2002, the Committee decided, within the rules of the Executive Share Option Scheme approved by the Shareholders, to make a larger than normal, one-off, grant to the directors in 2003.
Certain of the directors have also been granted additional options in order to meet the national insurance contribution liability payable on the exercise of their options.
The directors do not derive any benefit from this arrangement, which acts as a hedge against the future uncapped national insurance contributions liability, which the Company would otherwise have had to bear and hence these additional options have not been included in the table.
5 Beneficial holdings include SAYE options held by A J Trahar, A W Lea and W A Nairn of 3,792, 3,480 and 1,029 options respectively, with option prices of 4.85, 4.85 and 9.28 respectively.
There are no performance conditions attached to these options.
Details of the share options exercised by the executive directors in 2003 are as follows: Market price Number at date of exercised Option price exercise Gain A J Trahar 30,000 R51.25 R132.09 R2,425,200 53,000 R51.25 R138.67 R4,633,260 W A Nairn 20,000 R51.25 R137.93 R1,733,600 A W Lea 100,000 6.975 12.12 514,500 The highest and lowest mid-market prices of the Companys shares during the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 were 12.79 and 8.31 respectively.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares at 31 December 2003 was 12.07.
AngloGold Limited AngloGold R M Godsell has share options in AngloGold, an independently managed subsidiary of the Company: details of these share options are as follows: Weighted average Earliest Options held Holding at exercise date from at 1 January 31 December price which Latest 1 AngloGold options 2003 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2003 rand exercisable expiry date 2 R M Godsell 194,300 16,000 210,300 131.27 1 3 1998 2 5 2013 1 The exercise of AngloGold options granted in 2002 and 2003 are subject to performance conditions, requiring a 7.5% and a 6% real increase in EPS, year-on-year for three consecutive years.
The previous existing options vest over a five year period from the date of grant with no attached performance criteria.
The exercise price of the 16,000 options awarded in 2003 was R221.90.
2 AngloGold options in respect of shares, the market price of which as at 31 December 2003 is equal to, or exceeds, the option exercise price.
As at 31 December 2003, there were no options with an exercise price above the market price.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices of AngloGolds shares during the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 were R339.00 and R191.00 per share respectively.
The mid-market price of an AngloGold share at 31 December 2003 was R313.99.
Anglo American Platinum Corporation Limited Anglo Platinum B E Davison has share options in Anglo Platinum, a listed subsidiary of the Company: details of these share options are as follows: Weighted average Earliest Options held Holding at exercise date from at 1 January 31 December price which Latest 1 Anglo Platinum options 2003 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2003 rand exercisable expiry date 2 B E Davison 38,325 38,325 70.60 23 6 2001 22 6 2009 1 There are no performance criteria attached to any of these options.
2 Anglo Platinum options in respect of shares, the market price of which as at 31 December 2003 is equal to, or exceeds, the option exercise price.
34 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The highest and lowest mid-market prices of Anglo Platinums shares during the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 were R354.63 and R201.20 per share respectively.
The mid-market price of an Anglo Platinum share at 31 December 2003 was R292.67.
The information provided above is a summary.
However, full details of directors shareholdings and options are contained in the Registers of Directors Interests of the Company, AngloGold and Anglo Platinum, which are open to inspection.
3 Long term incentive plan LTIP Conditional awards of shares made to executive directors under the LTIP are shown below: Total beneficial Number of shares Total beneficial interest in LTIP at conditionally awarded interest in LTIP at Latest performance 1 2 3 LTIP interests 1 January 2003 during the year 31 December 2003 period end date A J Trahar 154,657 103,404 258,061 31 12 2005 B E Davison 69,064 46,277 115,341 31 12 2005 A W Lea 80,212 50,532 130,744 31 12 2005 W A Nairn 63,146 40,426 103,572 31 12 2005 1 The LTIP award made in 2003 is conditional on two performance conditions: the first based on the Companys TSR relative to a weighted group of international natural resource companies, and the second based on an underlying operating measure which focuses on raising Anglo Americans Anglo Platinums ROCE in the medium term.
As shown on page 29, if the Companys TSR is equal to or greater than the weighted average TSR of the top performing company in each category, the proportion of the TSR element vesting would be 150%: in this event, therefore, the LTIP awards shown above would be 1.25 times greater upon vesting.
Further details on the structure of the LTIP, the required level of performance for the 2003 award and how performance against targets is measured can be found on pages 28 and 29.
The market price of the shares at the date of award was 9.30.
2 Certain of the executive directors have also been granted additional unconditional shares in order to meet the national insurance contribution liability on both the TSR and operating measure elements of awards under the LTIP.
The executive directors do not benefit from such an arrangement, which operates as a hedge against the future uncapped national insurance contributions liability, which the Company would otherwise have had to bear, and hence these shares have not been included in this table.
3 The performance period applicable to each award is three years.
The performance period relating to the first LTIP ended on 31 December 2003.
No LTIP interests vested during 2003.
4 Deferred bonus plan In order to encourage directors to build up a significant personal stake in the Company, under the Deferred Bonus Plan executive directors were required to defer 50% of their annual bonus and could, at the discretion of the Committee on a year-by-year basis, defer all of their bonus net of tax to acquire shares in the Company.
If these shares are held for three years, they will be matched by the Company on a one-for-one basis, conditional upon the executive directors continued employment.
The directors hold interests in deferred bonus matching shares as follows: Number of shares conditionally Number of Total Latest Total interest awarded shares interest at vesting at 1 January during vested during 31 December period 1 Deferred bonus share matching interests 2003 the year the year 2003 end date A J Trahar 43,585 32,219 5,116 70,688 31 12 2005 B E Davison 7,928 5,267 2,112 11,083 31 12 2005 A W Lea 26,378 12,803 6,216 32,965 31 12 2005 W A Nairn 7,586 10,429 1,900 16,115 31 12 2005 1 The market price of the shares at the date of award was 9.28.
Details of the deferred bonus matching shares vested in 2003 are as follows: Number of Date of Market price Market price Money value shares conditional at date of at date of at date of Number of shares vested vested award award vesting vesting A J Trahar 5,116 5 4 2000 7.66 9.39 48,039 B E Davison 696 5 4 2000 7.66 9.39 6,535 1,416 5 4 2000 R79.50 R127.00 R179,832 A W Lea 6,216 5 4 2000 7.66 9.39 58,368 W A Nairn 1,900 5 4 2000 R79.50 R127.00 R241,300 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 35 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED A J Trahar, A W Lea and W A Nairn each purchased 147 shares under the SIP scheme during the year in addition to the 58 shares held by each of them at the beginning of the year.
If these shares are held for three years, they will be matched by the Company on a one-for-one basis, conditional upon the directors continued employment.
Participants in the SIP scheme are entitled to receive dividends from these matching shares upon vesting.
No SIP matching shares have vested during 2003.
5 Pensions Directors pension arrangements Each executive director, other than A W Lea, is a member of the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme, which is a defined contribution pension scheme.
A J Trahar participates in the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in terms of his contract with Anglo American International IOM Limited: normal contributions are made on his behalf at the rate of 35% of basic salary payable under this contract.
He also participates in the Anglo American Corporation Pension Fund, whereby he accrues benefits at the rate of 2.2% of pensionable salary as defined in the rules of that scheme for each year of pensionable service, in terms of his South African contract.
This scheme provides spouses benefits of two-thirds of the members pension on the death of a member.
It does not have provision for guaranteed pension increases.
A W Lea participates in the Anglo American plc Approved Pension Scheme formerly known as the Minorco Executive Directors Fund.
This scheme is also a defined contribution pension scheme.
Prior to the formation of the Company in May 1999, A W Lea was entitled to employer contributions at a rate of 35% of basic salary under his contract with Anglo American International BVI Limited, a commitment which continues to be honoured.
A W Lea is entitled to deferred benefits in the Anglo American Corporation Pension Fund in respect of previous South African service.
B E Davison participates in the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in terms of his contract with Anglo American International IOM Limited: normal contributions are made on his behalf at the rate of 25% of basic salary.
He also participates in the Anglo American Corporation Retirement Fund, whereby contributions are made at the rate of 15% of basic salary plus car allowance, under his South African contract.
He elected to join this scheme when it was established in September 1998 and transferred his accrued benefits from the Anglo American Corporation Pension Fund, of which he was previously a member.
W A Nairn participates in the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in terms of his contract with Anglo American International IOM Limited: normal contributions are made on his behalf at the rate of 25% of basic salary.
He is also entitled to contributions at the rate of 14% of basic salary plus car allowance to an independent personal retirement plan located in South Africa, under his South African contract.
No pension costs were incurred in respect of the non-executive directors, with the exception of R M Godsell, who continued to be a member of the AngloGold Pension Fund a defined benefit pension scheme in his capacity as chief executive of that company.
Defined contribution pension schemes The amounts paid into defined contribution pension schemes by the Group in respect of the individual directors were as follows: 1 Normal contributions 2003 2002 Directors 000 000 A J Trahar 142 144 B E Davison 90 82 A W Lea 166 156 W A Nairn 81 75 1 In view of Messrs Trahar, Davison and Nairn having no provision for past service in respect of their sterling denominated pension fund, their employing company has contractually agreed that supplementary pension contributions should be made to the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in return for these executives having given up their right to part of their future basic salary.
These supplementary contributions, of 81,000 2002: 75,000, 43,000 2002: 40,000 and 38,000 2002: 35,000 respectively, are disclosed in the directors emoluments table on page 32.
36 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Defined benefit pension schemes A J Trahar and A W Lea are eligible for membership of the Anglo American Corporation Pension Fund the Fund in respect of their South African remuneration or, in the case of A W Lea, his past service in South Africa.
The Fund is a funded final salary occupational pension scheme approved by the Financial Services Board and the Commissioner of Inland Revenue in South Africa.
Additional Increase in benefit earned Accrued transfer value excluding inflation entitlement Transfer value of accrued in the year during the year ended as at benefits as at 31 December less any 31 December 31 December personal 1 2003 2003 2003 2002 contributions Executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 A J Trahar 6 269 3,173 2,699 31 A W Lea 343 515 398 55 Non-executive director 2 R M Godsell 69 239 2,411 1,441 950 1 The transfer value, less any personal contributions, of the increase in additional benefits earned during 2003 amounted for A W Lea and R M Godsell to 37,000 and 679,000 respectively.
In respect of A J Trahar, this transfer value was reduced by 87,000 due to the reduction in the value of the rand portion of his salary.
2 In his capacity as chief executive of AngloGold, R M Godsell is entitled to membership of the AngloGold Pension Fund.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director: instead, they represent potential liabilities of the pension schemes.
Excess retirement benefits No person who served as a director of the Company during or before 2003 has been paid or received retirement benefits in excess of the retirement benefits to which he was entitled on the date on which benefits first became payable or 31 March 1997, whichever is later.
6 Sums paid to third parties in respect of a directors services No consideration was paid to or became receivable by third parties for making available the services of any person: as a director of the Company, or whilst a director of the Company, as a director of any of the Companys subsidiary undertakings, or as a director of any other undertaking of which he was whilst a director of the Company a director by virtue of the Companys nomination, or otherwise in connection with the management of the Company or any such other undertaking during the year to 31 December 2003.
7 Directors share interests The interests of directors who held office at 31 December 2003 in Ordinary Shares Shares of the Company and its subsidiaries were as follows: Shares in Anglo American plc As at 31 December 2003 As at 1 January 2003 or if later, date of appointment NonNonBeneficial Conditional beneficialBeneficial Conditional beneficial Deferred Deferred bonus bonus share share 1 2 3 1 2 3 Directors SIP match LTIP SIP match LTIP A J Trahar 152,094 205 70,688 258,061 43,719 58 43,585 154,657 B E Davison 26,390 11,083 115,341 7,928 7,928 69,064 4 A W Lea 84,777 205 32,965 130,744 34,928 58 26,378 80,212 W A Nairn 35,680 205 16,115 103,572 7,644 58 7,586 63,146 5 Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 15,780 12,653 DJ Challen 2,000 2,000 Dr C E Fay 3,487 1,600 RM Godsell 92 92 G Lindahl 7,792 4,507 6 R J Margetts 6,297 3,874 Dr M S B Marques 7 NF Oppenheimer 65,996,788 917,778 65,996,388 917,778 F T M Phaswana 4,692 1,059 Sir David Scholey 10,537 9,569 Prof K A L M Van Miert 500 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 37 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1 The award of these Shares is conditional upon the participants continued employment by the Group until three years after the conditional grant date.
2 The award of these Shares is conditional upon the participants continued employment by the Group until three years after the allotment date.
3 The award of Shares under the LTIP is conditional upon the satisfaction of the performance conditions set out on pages 28 and 29.
4 A W Leas beneficial interest includes 200 Shares arising as a result of his sons interest in these Shares.
5 Sir Mark Moody-Stuarts beneficial interest includes 12,500 Shares arising as a result of his interest in a family trust.
6 R J Margetts beneficial interest in 6,297 Shares arises as a result of his wifes interest in these Shares.
7 N F Oppenheimers beneficial interest in 65,996,696 of these Shares arises as a result of his interest in discretionary trusts which are treated as interested in 52,250,206 Shares in which E Oppenheimer & Son Holdings Limited is treated as interested and 13,741,490 Shares in which Central Holdings Limited is treated as interested.
The 13,741,490 Shares referred to above are Shares held by Debswana Diamond Company Pty Limited, in which N F Oppenheimer and Central Holdings Limited have no economic interest.
His interest in 5,000 of these Shares arises as a result of his wifes interest in a trust which has an indirect economic interest in those Shares.
In addition, N F Oppenheimer has a non-beneficial interest in 917,778 Shares arising as a result of his position as a trustee of a charitable trust.
The following changes in the above interests occurred between 1 January 2003 and the date of this report: Shares in Anglo American plc As at 25 February 2004 As at 1 January 2004 NonNonBeneficial Conditional beneficialBeneficial Conditional beneficial Deferred Deferred bonus bonus share share 1 2 3 1 2 3 Directors SIP match LTIP SIP match LTIP A J Trahar 148,088 225 61,030 258,061 152,094 205 70,688 258,061 B E Davison 25,400 9,269 115,341 26,390 11,083 115,341 4 A W Lea 80,483 225 26,727 130,744 84,777 205 32,965 130,744 W A Nairn 35,117 225 14,514 103,572 35,680 205 16,115 103,572 5 Sir Mark Moody-Stuart 16,556 15,780 Dr C E Fay 3,894 3,487 G Lindahl 8,439 7,792 6 R J Margetts 6,837 6,297 F T M Phaswana 5,482 4,692 Sir David Scholey 10,718 10,537 1 The award of these Shares is conditional upon the participants continued employment by the Group until three years after the conditional grant date.
6 R J Margetts beneficial interest in 6,837 Shares arises as a result of his wifes interest in these Shares.
38 Remuneration report Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shares in subsidiaries of Anglo American plc As at 1 January 2003 As at 31 December 2003 or if later, date of appointment NonNonBeneficial beneficial Beneficial beneficial AngloGold Limited R M Godsell 460 460 1 1 NF Oppenheimer 8,726 6,426 Anglo American Platinum Corporation Limited 2 2 BE Davison 22,067 22,067 WA Nairn 759 759 Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation Limited AJ Trahar 100 1 Shares held by N F Oppenheimer in his capacity as trustee of various trusts.
2 20,067 of these shares are held through a family trust.
APPROVAL This directors remuneration report has been approved by the board of directors of Anglo American plc.
Signed on behalf of the board of directors R J Margetts 24 February 2004 INDEPENDENT REMUNERATION REPORT REVIEW This letter reports on the results of the review carried out by Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited of the processes followed by the Anglo American plc Remuneration Committee the Committee that support the Remuneration Report for the financial year 2003.
Mercer undertook the review at the request of the Chairman of the Committee in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes followed are appropriate and that the Committee has complied with the policies set out in the Remuneration Report.
In order to reach our opinion, we reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and the minutes of its meetings held during the year as well as material presented to the Committee for its review.
We also interviewed the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee.
Our review was not intended to audit the compensation data set forth in the Remuneration Report or to evaluate the merits of Anglo American plcs remuneration programme.
Based on our review, Mercer is of the opinion that the process followed by the Committee during 2003 was fully consistent with its Terms of Reference and that the decisions taken by the Committee were in line with the principles set out in the Remuneration Report.
It continues to be our view that the Committee takes a suitably robust approach to its work.
We would note in particular the changes to long term incentive arrangements which have been proposed in response to dialogue held with institutional investors.
The Committee has implemented changes as a result of our 2002 review.
The members of the Committee have received training and are regularly updated on executive compensation and corporate governance matters.
Further detail regarding the Mercer review is included in a letter of this date addressed to the Committee Chairman, which we understand will be made available on the Companys website.
Mark Hoble Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Dexter House 2 Royal Mint Court London EC3N 4NA 13 February 2004 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Remuneration report 39 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
40 Statement of directors responsibilities Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC We have audited the financial statements of Anglo American plc We read the directors report and the other information contained for the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the in the annual report for the above year including the unaudited part consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated balance sheet, of the directors remuneration report and consider the implications for the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or of total recognised gains and losses, the Company balance sheet material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION also audited the information specified by the Directors Remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing Report Regulations 2002 to be audited which is set out in sections standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes 1 to 6 of the remuneration report.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Companys members those matters we are required to state to them statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to applied and adequately disclosed.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described AND AUDITORS as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the report described as having been audited.
preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility OPINION is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors In our opinion: remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of and auditing standards.
affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the financial statements and the part of the directors the part of the directors remuneration report described as having remuneration report described as having been audited have been been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, Deloitte & Touche LLP if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not received all the information and explanations we require for London our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other 24 February 2004 members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Independent auditors report to the members of Anglo American plc 41 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS PAGE Consolidated profit and loss account 43 Consolidated balance sheet 44 Consolidated cash flow statement 45 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 45 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies 46 2 Segmental information 49 3 Profit for the financial year 51 4 Group operating profit 52 5 Exploration expenditure 53 6 Employee numbers and costs 53 7 Exceptional items 54 8 Investment income 55 9 Interest payable 55 10 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 56 11 Dividends 57 12 Earnings per share 57 13 Intangible fixed assets 58 14 Tangible fixed assets 58 15 Fixed asset investments 59 16 Joint ventures and associates 60 17 Stocks 60 18 Debtors 61 19 Current asset investments 61 20 Other current liabilities 61 21 Short term borrowings and liabilities due after one year 62 22 Derivatives and other financial instruments 63 23 Provisions for liabilities and charges 68 24 Called-up share capital 68 25 Combined statement of movement in shareholders funds and movement in reserves 70 26 Consolidated cash flow statement analysis 71 27 Movement in net debt 72 28 Acquisition of subsidiaries 72 29 Disposal of subsidiaries 78 30 Capital commitments 78 31 Contingent liabilities 78 32 Operating leases 79 33 Retirement benefits 79 34 Related party transactions 83 35 Reconciliation of net operating assets to net assets 84 36 Financial statements of the parent company 84 37 Group companies 86 38 Events occurring after end of year 87 42 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptional items exceptional items items note 7 items note 7 US$ million Note 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 Group turnover including share of joint ventures and associates 2 24,909 24,909 20,497 20,497 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 2 1,060 1,060 1,066 1,066 Share of associates turnover 2 5,212 5,212 4,286 4,286 Group turnover subsidiaries 2 18,637 18,637 15,145 15,145 Operating costs 4 16,740 286 17,026 12,757 47 12,804 Group operating profit subsidiaries 4 1,897 286 1,611 2,388 47 2,341 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 2 247 247 219 34 185 Share of operating profit of associates 2 748 748 725 725 Total operating profit 2 2,892 286 2,606 3,332 81 3,251 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 7 386 386 9898 Loss on termination of operations 7 34 34 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 3 2,892 100 2,992 3,332 17 3,315 Investment income 8 308 308 304 304 Interest payable 9 614 13 627 483 483 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2,586 87 2,673 3,153 17 3,136 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 10 749 13 736 1,042 3 1,045 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 1,837 100 1,937 2,111 20 2,091 Equity minority interests 3 339 6 345 528 528 Profit for the financial year 3 1,498 94 1,592 1,583 20 1,563 Equity dividends to shareholders 11 766 766 720 720 Retained profit for the financial year 732 94 826 863 20 843 Headline earnings for the financial year 12 1,694 1,759 Basic earnings per share US$ : Profit for the financial year 12 1.13 1.11 Headline earnings for the financial year 12 1.20 1.25 Diluted earnings per share US$ : Profit for the financial year 12 1.10 1.10 Headline earnings for the financial year 12 1.17 1.23 Dividend per share US cents 54.0 51.0 1 Basic number of shares outstanding million 12 1,415 1,411 1 Diluted number of shares outstanding million 12 1,478 1,426 1 Basic and diluted number of shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year.
The impact of acquired and discontinued operations on the results for the year is not material.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 43 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2003 US$ million Note 2003 2002 Fixed assets Intangible assets 13 2,267 2,310 Tangible assets 14 24,379 16,531 Investments in joint ventures: 15 1,630 1,544 Share of gross assets 2,483 2,763 Share of gross liabilities 853 1,219 Investments in associates 15 4,804 4,119 Other investments 15 1,394 1,713 34,474 26,217 Current assets Stocks 17 2,744 1,814 Debtors 18 4,383 3,337 Current asset investments 19 1,032 1,143 Cash at bank and in hand 1,094 1,070 9,253 7,364 Liabilities due within one year Short term borrowings 21 4,094 1,918 Other current liabilities 20 5,224 4,329 Net current liabilities assets 65 1,117 Total assets less current liabilities 34,409 27,334 Liabilities due after one year Long term borrowings: 21 6,665 5,873 Convertible debt 1,088 1,084 Other long term liabilities 5,577 4,789 Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 3,954 2,896 Equity minority interests 3,396 2,304 Net assets 20,394 16,261 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 24 738 735 Share premium account 25 1,284 1,216 Merger reserve 25 460 636 Other reserves 25 716 716 Profit and loss account 25 17,196 12,958 Total shareholders funds equity 20,394 16,261 The financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 24 February 2004.
The balance sheet of the Company is presented in note 36 to the accounts.
A J Trahar A W Lea Chief executive Finance director 44 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 US$ million Note 2003 2002 Net cash inflow from operating activities 26 3,184 3,618 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 426 258 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received and other financial income 201 309 Interest paid 452 281 Dividends received from other fixed asset investments 42 49 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 349 375 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 558 298 Taxation UK corporation tax 6 10 Overseas tax 701 712 Net cash outflow from taxation 707 722 Capital expenditure and financial investment Payments for tangible fixed assets 3,025 2,139 Proceeds from the sale of tangible fixed assets 117 313 Exit funding for Konkola Copper Mines KCM 182 1 Payments for other investments 46 351 1 Proceeds from the sale of other investments 617 217 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 2,337 2,142 Acquisitions and disposals 2 3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 28 1,469 2,911 Disposal of subsidiaries 29 3 24 Investment in joint ventures 1 34 Sale of interests in joint ventures 122 Investment in proportionally consolidated joint arrangements 13 3 Investment in associates 78 613 Sale of interests in associates 260 24 Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals 1,285 3,401 Equity dividends paid to Anglo American shareholders 741 732 Cash outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 2,018 3,419 Management of liquid resources 182 1,021 Financing 26 1,785 2,458 Decrease increase in cash in the year 27 51 60 1 Disposal and acquisition of other investments included in fixed assets.
2 Net of cash acquired within subsidiaries of $214 million 2002: $157 million.
3 All amounts paid in 2003 in respect of the acquisition of Kumba are included within acquisition of subsidiaries.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2003 US$ million Note 2003 2002 Profit for the financial year 3 1,592 1,563 Joint ventures 190 83 Associates 479 384 Unrealised gain arising on exchange of business 13 39 Less: Related overseas current tax charge 22 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 3,282 2,531 Less: Related tax charge 59 Total recognised gains for the financial year 4,828 4,111 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 45 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared according to the historical cost convention and in accordance with accounting standards applicable in the United Kingdom.
The accounting policies applied in preparing the financial statements are consistent with those adopted and disclosed in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements comprise a consolidation of the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries and incorporate the results of its share of joint ventures and associates on a gross equity and equity basis respectively.
The financial statements also include the Groups share of the results of joint arrangements that are not entities as set out below.
Revenue recognition Turnover amounts are measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting trade discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Turnover from metal mining activities is based on the contained metal sold.
Revenues from the sale of by-products are credited against the cost of production of the main products.
Acquisitions and goodwill arising thereon Where an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or an associate is made, any difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the attributable net assets is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is amortised over its estimated useful life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included within intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill relating to joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of the joint venture or associate.
The unamortised balance is reviewed on a regular basis and, if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the period in which the circumstances are identified.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other partner under a contractual arrangement.
The Groups share of the results of joint ventures is accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
Associates The equity method of accounting is used for investments over which the Group exercises significant influence and normally owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity.
Results of associates are equity accounted from their most recent audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements.
Any losses of associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements.
The carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each investment including unamortised goodwill, the share of post-acquisition retained earnings and any other movements in reserves.
The carrying value of associates is reviewed on a regular basis and if an impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the period in which those circumstances are identified.
Joint arrangements The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities that do not create an entity carrying on a trade of its own.
The Group includes its share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash flows in such joint arrangements, measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro rata to the Groups interest in the joint arrangement.
Investments Investments, other than investments in joint ventures and associates, are included at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
46 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Tangible fixed assets Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining properties, mineral rights and investments in and loans to companies holding mineral rights.
Mining properties are depreciated using the unit of production method based on proven and probable reserves.
Depreciation is charged on new mining ventures from the date when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost, a write-down is charged against profits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase to remove additional overburden or waste ore are deferred and charged to operating costs on the basis of the average life of mine.
Interest on borrowings relating to the financing of major capital projects under construction is charged during the construction phase as part of the cost of the project.
Where funds have been borrowed specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of the Groups general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average of rates applicable to general borrowings of the Group during the period.
Land and properties in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Buildings, plant and equipment are depreciated at varying rates, on the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives normally vary up to 20 years for items of plant and equipment and up to a maximum of 50 years for buildings.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful lives of the assets.
Impairments The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
Any provision for impairment is charged against profit in the year concerned.
In addition, first year impairment reviews are conducted for acquired goodwill.
Impairment is determined by reference to the higher of net realisable value and value in use, which is measured by reference to discounted future cash flows.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital, with appropriate adjustment made for local conditions.
Research and exploration expenditure Research and exploration expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property becomes viable for commercial production, all further pre-production expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation of pre-production expenditure ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The production cost of stocks includes an appropriate proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Cost is determined on the following bases: raw materials and consumables are valued at cost on a first-in, first-out FIFO basis: metal, coal and coke stocks are valued at average cost: and finished products are valued at raw material cost, labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses.
Current asset investments Current asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and fixed and floating rate debt securities.
Debt securities that are intended to be held to maturity are recorded on the amortised cost basis.
Debt securities that are not intended to be held to maturity are recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
Retirement benefits The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its employees.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account is the contributions paid during the year.
The expected costs of providing post-retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements are charged against profits to spread the expected costs on a straight-line basis over the service lives of employees entitled to those benefits.
Costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries using the projected unit method.
Experience adjustments and prior service costs resulting from plan amendments are amortised over the expected average remaining service lives of relevant current employees.
The difference between pension cost and funding is treated as a provision or prepayment.
The Group continues to account for post-retirement benefits under the transitional arrangements for FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 47 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs An obligation to incur restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs arises when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mine or quarry.
Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to its net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are charged against profits over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and charged against profits as extraction progresses.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
Finance lease obligations are recorded at the inception of the lease as the present value of the minimum lease payments, derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element of the rental is charged against profit.
Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked in local currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward contract.
The profit and loss account of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates as well as the cash flow statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated at weighted average rates of exchange, other than material exceptional items which are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward contract.
Exchange differences on the translation of the net assets of subsidiaries less offsetting exchange differences on foreign currency loans financing these assets, are recorded as a movement in reserves and in the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
All other exchange gains or losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at year end exchange rates, are recorded in the profit and loss account.
Hedging transactions In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks, the Group enters into forward, option and swap contracts.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recognised in the period to which the gains and losses of the underlying transactions relate.
Net income or expense associated with interest rate swap agreements is recognised on the accrual basis over the life of the swap agreements as a component of interest.
Where commodity option contracts hedge anticipated future production or purchases, the Group amortises the option premiums paid over the life of the option and recognises any realised gains and losses on exercise in the period in which the hedged production is sold or commodity purchases are made.
Employee share awards The estimated cost of awards made by the Group is charged to profit over the performance period, as appropriate.
Where shares are held by an employee benefit trust the carrying value of these shares is included within other fixed asset investments, less amounts charged to profit relating to those shares.
The estimated cost of awards is the market value of shares awarded or the intrinsic value of the awards being the difference between the exercise price of the award and the market price at the date of grant adjusted to reflect performance conditions where applicable.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption given in Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 17 Employee share schemes in respect of Save As You Earn schemes.
Reporting currency As permitted by UK company law, the Group reports in US dollars, the currency in which most of its business is conducted.
2 Net operating assets consist of tangible and intangible assets, stocks and operating debtors less non-interest bearing current liabilities.
See note 35 for the reconciliation of net operating assets to net assets.
3 Net assets for joint ventures and associates are disclosed in note 16.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 49 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued 1 Turnover Operating profit Net operating assets Before Exceptional exceptional items items note 7 US$ million 2003 2002 2003 2003 2003 2002 2003 2002 By geographical segment by origin Group subsidiaries South Africa 7,308 5,863 886 49 837 1,587 14,148 7,712 Rest of Africa 44 67 4 4 21 873 555 Europe 7,721 6,545 592 592 509 8,086 7,001 North America 708 634 71 208 279 41 868 934 South America 1,675 908 361 1 360 151 3,168 3,196 Australia and Asia 1,181 1,128 133 28 105 114 2,566 1,724 2 Joint ventures South Africa 17 12 9 9 5 Rest of Africa 312 330 98 98 106 Europe 372 398 31 31 50 North America 28 13 2 2 1 South America 323 313 105 105 123 Australia and Asia 8 2 2 2 Associates South Africa 1,302 1,068 135 135 198 Rest of Africa 2,157 1,582 398 398 312 Europe 640 733 116 116 124 North America 504 527 4 4 21 South America 280 238 61 61 46 Australia and Asia 329 138 42 42 24 24,909 20,497 2,892 286 2,606 3,251 29,709 21,122 By geographical segment by destination Group subsidiaries South Africa 3,503 2,566 Rest of Africa 295 302 Europe 9,726 8,295 North America 1,607 1,144 South America 859 436 Australia and Asia 2,647 2,402 Joint ventures South Africa 7 3 Rest of Africa 11 35 Europe 787 803 North America 91 99 South America 45 19 Australia and Asia 119 107 Associates South Africa 399 309 Rest of Africa 34 40 Europe 1,287 947 North America 2,157 1,901 South America 41 23 Australia and Asia 1,294 1,066 24,909 20,497 1 Net operating assets consist of tangible and intangible assets, stocks and operating debtors less non-interest bearing current liabilities.
2 Net assets for joint ventures and associates are disclosed in note 16.
50 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The table below analyses the contribution of each business segment to the Groups profit for the financial year and its headline earnings: 2003 NonNet Operating operating Profit Other investment Equity Operating exceptional exceptional Goodwill before Interest Dividend financial Interest income minority US$ million profit items items amortisation interest income income income expense expense Tax interests Total By business segment Platinum 433 14 17 464 14 21 47 12 152 95 205 Gold 326 43 41 410 42 51 44 49 122 170 167 Diamonds 562 32 594 10 59 49 153 6 386 Coal 333 8 341 13 2 31 7 23 86 232 Base Metals 78 208 1 287 6 12 38 44 32 5 206 Industrial Minerals 325 53 378 71 4 15 11 81 16 270 Paper and Packaging 656 18 674 27 5 31 126 63 172 71 368 Ferrous Metals 156 9 165 1423 50 31 41 4 89 Industries 52 4 56 44 9 11 104 62 21 3 18 Exploration 125 20 105 1 1 21 83 Corporate Activities 190 1 20 169 23 17 23 124 61 69 3 164 Headline earnings for the financial year 2,606 286 203 3,095 200 36 72 614 306 749 346 1,694 Headline earnings adjustments 286 386 203 103 13 13 13 1 102 Profit for the financial year 2,606 386 2,992 200 36 72 627 319 736 345 1,592 2002 NonNet Operating operating Profit Other investment Equity Operating exceptional exceptional Goodwill before Interest Dividend financial Interest income minority US$ million profit items items amortisation interest income income income expense expense Tax interests Total By business segment Platinum 802 17 819 17 5 12 265 215 351 Gold 463 39 502 39 75 47 67 157 207 205 Diamonds 541 29 570 16 95 79 159 8 324 Coal 427 7 434 81 65 5 61 107 266 Base Metals 82 51 1 134 4 2 43 41 22 2 69 Industrial Minerals 277 46 323 6 7 3 10 86 16 231 Paper and Packaging 649 15 664 12 9 18 84 45 173 70 376 Ferrous Metals 150 5 155 1632 23 2 53 12 88 Industries 114 3 117 32 9 17 66 42 10 27 38 Exploration 93 93 1 1 17 77 Corporate Activities 161 30 27 104 95 28 8 112 3 10 1 112 Headline earnings for the financial year 3,251 81 189 3,521 245 50 9 483 179 1,042 541 1,759 Headline earnings adjustments 81 64 189 206 3 13 196 Profit for the financial year 3,251 64 3,315 245 50 9 483 179 1,045 528 1,563 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 51 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 GROUP OPERATING PROFIT US$ million 2003 2002 Group turnover 18,637 15,145 1 Cost of sales 14,010 10,228 Gross profit 4,627 4,917 Selling and distribution costs 1,258 971 Administrative expenses 1,651 1,550 Other operating income 18 38 5 Exploration expenditure see note 5 125 93 Group operating profit 1,611 2,341 1 Includes Group operating exceptional charges of $266 million in continuing operations 2002: $47 million.
US$ million 2003 2002 Operating profit is after charging: Depreciation of tangible assets 1,310 962 Goodwill amortisation subsidiaries 153 139 joint ventures and associates 50 50 Rentals under operating leases: Hire of plant and machinery 72 60 Other operating leases 57 49 Research and development expenditure 39 29 2 Auditors remuneration : Audit: United Kingdom 3 2 Overseas 8 8 Other services provided by Deloitte: United Kingdom 1 3 3 Overseas 11 5 Operating exceptional items see note 7 286 47 2 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2003 is provided below: Payable to auditor Payable to Deloitte if not Deloitte US$ million unless otherwise stated United Kingdom Overseas United Kingdom Overseas Audit services: Statutory audit fees 2.5 7.8 3.0 Interim review 0.5 0.2 0.1 Audit-related regulatory reporting 0.1 3.0 8.1 3.1 Further assurance services: Corporate finance 0.1 0.7 0.3 Tax compliance 0.1 1.1 0.1 Other 0.2 0.8 0.2 Tax advisory services 0.7 2.4 0.3 Other non-audit services: Information technology 1.6 Internal audit 0.3 0.2 4 Consultancy services 4.7 Other 0.3 0.2 1.1 11.9 1.3 3 A further $1 million has been capitalised in fixed assets relating to consultancy services provided by Deloitte.
The full $11.9 million is analysed above.
4 Consultancy services are of a non-financial nature and do not involve the design or implementation of financial systems.
5 Exploration expenditure includes a $20 million exceptional charge see note 7.
52 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE US$ million 2003 2002 By business segment Platinum 11 13 Gold 36 27 Base Metals 50 47 Impairment of Boyongan see note 7 20 Other 8 6 125 93 6 EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS The average number of employees, excluding joint ventures and associates employees, was: Thousands 2003 2002 Platinum 46 45 Gold 46 45 Coal 9 9 Base Metals 8 6 Industrial Minerals 12 12 1 Paper and Packaging 37 26 Ferrous Metals 12 11 Industries 22 22 Corporate Activities 1 1 193 177 1 The average employee number for Paper and Packaging in 2002 does not include employees of a number of small operations which became subsidiaries in 2003 when the shareholding increased above 50%.
If included in 2002, average employees would have been 30,000.
The principal locations of employment were: Thousands 2003 2002 South Africa 122 122 Rest of Africa 12 10 Europe 42 30 North America 4 4 South America 8 7 Australia and Asia 5 4 193 177 Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were: US$ million 2003 2002 Wages and salaries 3,311 2,421 Social security costs 271 204 Post-retirement healthcare costs 108 17 Defined contribution pension plan costs 131 99 Defined benefit pension plan costs 108 55 3,929 2,796 Disclosures on directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 1985 and those specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in sections 1 to 6 of the remuneration report and form part of these financial statements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 53 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Operating exceptional items US$ million 2003 2002 Impairment of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co Ltd 208 Impairment of Boyongan 20 Impairment of Savuka 34 Disposal of Salobo Metais SA reversal of previous impairment 46 Write-down of investments 30 Other impairments 24 97 Total operating exceptional items 286 81 Taxation 22 Minority interests 23 241 81 Exceptional finance charge Share of associates charge on early redemption of debt 13 Total exceptional finance charge 13 Non-operating exceptional items Disposal of interest in Li & Fung 163 Further disposal of interests in FirstRand Limited 117 7 Disposal of interest in Avgold 51 Disposal of interest in East Africa Gold Mines 25 Disposal of interest in Randgold Resources 17 Disposal of interest in JCI 20 Disposal of Anglovaal Mining Limited 13 Disposal of Tati Nickel Mining Company Pty Limited 53 Disposal of Salobo Metais SA 5 Disposal of other fixed assets and investments 21 14 Share of associates exceptional items 25 19 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 386 98 KCM exit costs 34 Total non-operating exceptional items 386 64 Taxation 9 3 Minority interests 29 348 61 Total exceptional items net of tax and minority interests 94 20 Operating exceptional items A review of the carrying value of the Hudson Bay assets has resulted in a $208 million exceptional charge to operating profit, attributable to Base Metals.
The review was based on estimated value in use.
During the year Exploration has made an exceptional charge of $20 million against the Boyongan project in the Philippines.
AngloGold impaired the mining assets of Savuka in South Africa with a charge of $34 million.
54 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS continued Exceptional finance charge The exceptional finance charge of $13 million relates to the Groups share of fide Beers costs on the early redemption of debt, being facility fees not yet amortised.
Non-operating exceptional items During the year, Ferrous Metals & Industries disposed of their remaining shareholding in Li & Fung for $269 million, leading to an exceptional gain of $163 million.
The Group made further sales of its interest in FirstRand Limited during the year for a total consideration of $176 million, leading to an exceptional gain of $117 million attributable to Corporate Activities.
The Group also disposed of its remaining stake in Avgold in November 2003 resulting in an exceptional gain of $51 million attributable to Corporate Activities.
8 INVESTMENT INCOME US$ million 2003 2002 Interest and other financial income 227 226 Share of investment income of joint ventures 2 5 Share of investment income of associates 43 23 Dividend income from other financial assets 36 50 308 304 Other financial income in the table above includes $70 million net exchange losses arising from net foreign currency borrowings less deposits 2002: net losses of $77 million.
9 INTEREST PAYABLE US$ million 2003 2002 Bank loans and overdrafts 375 215 Other loans 119 117 Unwinding of discount on rehabilitation provisions 8 8 Share of interest payable of joint ventures 26 33 Share of interest payable of associates 127 142 Share of associates charge on early redemption of debt see note 7 13 668 515 Capitalised 41 32 627 483 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 55 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 TAX ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES a Analysis of charge for the year 2003 2002 Excluding Including Excluding Including exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional US$ million items items items items United Kingdom corporation tax at 30% 26 26 4 4 South Africa corporation tax at 30% 74 74 435 435 Other overseas taxation 240 240 187 187 Share of taxation charge of joint ventures 15 15 29 29 Share of taxation charge of associates 200 200 216 216 Current tax on exceptional items 9 3 Total current tax 555 564 863 866 Deferred taxation subsidiaries 193 193 160 160 Deferred taxation joint ventures 17 17 14 14 Deferred taxation associates 16 16 55 Deferred tax on exceptional items 22 Total deferred tax 194 172 179 179 Total tax charge 749 736 1,042 1,045 b Factors affecting current tax charge for the year The current tax charge assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom and South Africa 30%.
The differences are explained below: 2003 2002 Including Including exceptional exceptional US$ million items items Profit on ordinary activities before tax 2,673 3,136 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at 30% 2002: 30% 802 941 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes: Operating exceptional items 86 24 Goodwill amortisation 61 41 Exploration costs 32 28 Other permanent items 10 Non-taxable income: Dividends receivable 11 15 Non-operating exceptional items 103 19 Tax allowances for capital expenditure in excess of depreciation 207 175 Movement in tax losses 15 37 South African secondary tax on companies 45 53 1 Effect of differences between local and UK rates 66 Other differences 90 59 Current tax charge for the year 564 866 1 The prior year comparative is included within other differences.
c Factors that may affect future tax charges The Group anticipates that its effective rate will move above the statutory rate of 30% as the Group operates in certain countries where tax rates are higher than the UK rate, including South Africa effective rate of 37.8% assuming distribution of profits.
Details of the deferred tax provision are given in note 23.
In addition to the amounts provided in deferred tax, unrecognised assets exist in respect of taxable losses.
No asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as it is not regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to offset these losses.
Any utilisation of these losses in the future may lead to a reduction in effective tax rates.
No deferred tax has been provided in respect of accumulated reserves of overseas subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as no dividends have been declared.
Overseas earnings have not been remitted to the UK in such a way as to incur a UK tax charge.
56 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 DIVIDENDS US$ million 2003 2002 Interim paid 15 US cents per ordinary share 2002: 15 US cents 212 211 Final proposed 39 US cents per ordinary share 2002: 36 US cents 554 509 766 720 As stated in note 24, the shares held by the employee benefit trust have waived the right to receive dividends.
12 EARNINGS PER SHARE 2003 2002 1 Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding million 1,415 1,411 Potentially dilutive ordinary shares million 63 15 1 Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding million 1,478 1,426 Profit for the financial year: 2 Basic earnings per share US$ 1.13 1.11 3 Diluted earnings per share US$ 1.10 1.10 4 Headline earnings for the financial year : Basic earnings per share US$ 1.20 1.25 Diluted earnings per share US$ 1.17 1.23 1 Basic and diluted number of shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year.
2 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The average number of shares in issue excludes the shares held by the employee benefit trust.
3 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
4 Basic and diluted earnings per share are also shown based on headline earnings, which the directors believe to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with the definition issued by the Institute of Investment Management and Research now Society of Investment Professionals, in Statement of Investment Practice No.
1, The Definition of Headline Earnings.
2003 2002 Basic earnings Basic earnings per share per share US$ million unless otherwise stated Earnings US$ Earnings US$ Profit for the financial year 1,592 1.13 1,563 1.11 Operating exceptional items 286 0.20 81 0.06 Exceptional finance charge 13 0.01 Non-operating exceptional items 386 0.27 64 0.05 Amortisation of goodwill: Subsidiaries 153 0.11 139 0.10 Joint ventures and associates 50 0.04 50 0.04 Related tax 13 0.01 3 Related minority interest 1 0.01 13 0.01 Headline earnings for the financial year 1,694 1.20 1,759 1.25 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 57 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS US$ million Goodwill Cost At 1 January 2003 2,881 Acquisition of subsidiaries 50 Currency movements 62 At 31 December 2003 2,993 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2003 571 Charge for the year 153 Currency movements 2 At 31 December 2003 726 Net book value At 31 December 2003 2,267 At 31 December 2002 2,310 The increase in goodwill relating to acquisition of subsidiaries represents the excess of fair value of the purchase price over the provisional fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired.
Further detail is given in note 28.
2 Acquired with subsidiaries includes $9 million relating to the reassessment of the fair value of assets of Minera Sur Andes see note 28.
3 Net book value of assets held under finance leases amounts to $165 million 2002: $125 million.
58 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS continued Included in the cost of tangible fixed assets is $41 million of interest 2002: $32 million which has been capitalised during the year.
Aggregate interest capitalised at 31 December 2003 totals $141 million 2002: $100 million.
Tax relief on interest capitalised is based on the tax rates prevailing in the jurisdiction in which the interest is incurred.
The impairment charge for the year includes $208 million against the assets at Hudson Bay in Base Metals.
Further detail regarding this impairment is given in note 7.
Nominal pre-tax discount rates based on real post-tax discount rates of between 6-9% were used in the performance of impairment reviews.
Included in tangible fixed assets are properties in the course of construction and land and buildings amounting to $2,413 million 2002: $1,276 million which are not depreciated.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: US$ million 2003 2002 Freehold 2,114 1,560 Leasehold long 98 92 Leasehold short less than 50 years 16 13 2,228 1,665 15 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS 1 2 Interest in joint ventures Interest in associates Other investments US$ million Loans Equity Loans Equity Loans Equity Own shares Total Cost At 1 January 2003 561 1,156 86 4,431 246 1,098 685 8,263 3 Groups share of profits less losses 174 143 317 Additions 7 66 73 Acquired with subsidiaries 2 14 31 47 Disposals 1 230 317 548 Reclassifications 295 93 6 7 2 350 549 Repayments advances 6 91 29 183 64 7 172 Currency movements 37 9 541 41 106 8 742 At 31 December 2003 260 1,370 118 5,096 353 627 693 8,517 Provisions for impairment At 1 January 2003 173 398 49 212 55 887 Charge utilisation for the year 12 2 16 26 Disposals 85 85 Reclassifications 173 12 161 Currency movements 10 12 22 At 31 December 2003 410 71 137 71 689 Net book value 4 At 31 December 2003 260 1,370 118 4,686 282 490 622 7,828 At 31 December 2002 561 983 86 4,033 197 886 630 7,376 1 Interest in associates at 31 December 2003 includes $359 million of goodwill 2002: $441 million, restated for amounts reclassified to mining reserves.
2 Other investments in the table above include listed investments of $52 million 2002: $323 million.
The market value of these listed investments, $166 million 2002: $602 million, exceeded the carrying value at 31 December 2003 by $114 million 2002: $279 million.
3 Net of goodwill amortisation of $42 million 2002: $42 million in associates and $8 million 2002: $8 million in joint ventures.
4 US$ million 31 December 2003 Loans Equity Own shares Total Joint ventures 260 1,370 1,630 Associates 118 4,686 4,804 Other investments 282 490 622 1,394 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 59 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16 JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2003 2002 Joint Joint US$ million ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total Fixed assets 2,001 5,755 7,756 2,207 4,186 6,393 Current assets 482 2,269 2,751 556 2,263 2,819 Liabilities due within one year 355 856 1,211 302 664 966 Liabilities due after more than one year 498 2,364 2,862 917 1,666 2,583 Net assets 1,630 4,804 6,434 1,544 4,119 5,663 US$ million 2003 2002 Platinum 73 65 Gold 1,219 1,077 Diamonds 2,886 2,329 Coal 504 553 Base Metals 963 829 Industrial Minerals 60 53 Paper and Packaging 178 161 Ferrous Metals 445 505 Industries 50 45 Corporate Activities 56 46 6,434 5,663 South Africa 1,751 1,483 Rest of Africa 1,960 1,637 Europe 686 738 North America 316 170 South America 1,301 1,286 Australia and Asia 420 349 6,434 5,663 17 STOCKS US$ million 2003 2002 Raw materials and consumables 956 668 Work in progress 633 352 Finished products 1,155 794 2,744 1,814 The difference between the replacement cost and the values included in the financial statements is not material.
60 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 DEBTORS 2003 2002 Due within Due after Due within Due after US$ million one year one year Total one year one year Total Trade debtors 3,061 19 3,080 2,232 3 2,235 Amounts owed by joint ventures 60 60 49 2 51 Other debtors 819 83 902 649 62 711 1 Prepayments and accrued income 165 176 341 169 171 340 4,105 278 4,383 3,099 238 3,337 1 Includes $170 million in relation to prepaid pension contributions 2002: $168 million.
19 CURRENT ASSET INVESTMENTS 2003 2002 Group Group Market carrying Market carrying US$ million value value value value Bank term deposits 312 312 923 923 Quoted fixed and floating rate debt securities 502 502 33 Unquoted fixed and floating rate debt securities 218 218 217 217 1,032 1,032 1,143 1,143 20 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES US$ million 2003 2002 Trade creditors 2,528 1,541 Amounts owed to associates 3 Taxation and social security 579 772 Other creditors 1,127 1,128 Accruals and deferred income 433 379 Proposed dividend see note 11 554 509 5,224 4,329 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 61 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 SHORT TERM BORROWINGS AND LIABILITIES DUE AFTER ONE YEAR 2003 2002 Due within Due after Due within Due after US$ million one year one year Total one year one year Total Convertible debt 1,088 1,088 1,084 1,084 Other long term liabilities: Bonds issued under EMTN programme 52 1,750 1,802 Bank loans and overdrafts 2,633 3,309 5,942 1,715 3,996 5,711 Obligations under finance leases 21 119 140 13 63 76 Other loans 1,380 354 1,734 190 697 887 Other creditors 84553 3333 4,094 5,577 9,671 1,918 4,789 6,707 Total 4,094 6,665 10,759 1,918 5,873 7,791 3 In April 2002, Anglo American issued $1.1 billion 3 8 per cent convertible bonds, due 17 April 2007, convertible into ordinary shares of 3 Anglo American.
The bonds were issued at par and bear a coupon of 3 8 per cent per annum, payable semi-annually.
The conversion price is 16.13 which represents a premium of 35% over the closing price of the shares in London at the date of offer.
The bonds can be converted by the holder at any time between 28 May 2002 and up to 14 business days prior to 17 April 2007.
The total number of ordinary shares of 50 US cents each which could be issued on conversion is 47,589,607.
The bonds can be redeemed by Anglo American at their principal amount at any time after 9 May 2005, if the share price is at least 130% of the conversion price for 20 dealing days within a 30 day dealing period.
The bonds can also be redeemed by Anglo American at their principal amount once conversion rights have been exercised in respect of 85% of the principal amount of the bonds.
If not converted or previously redeemed the bonds will be redeemed at par on 17 April 2007.
The market value of the convertible debt at 31 December 2003 was $1,261 million 2002: $1,088 million.
In May 2003, Anglo American Capital, a fully owned subsidiary of Anglo American, issued a euro 1 billion five year 3.625% bond guaranteed by Anglo American plc.
The inaugural Eurobond was issued under a $2 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme EMTN established in March 2003.
In September 2003, under the same programme, Anglo American Capital issued a 300 million seven year 5.125% bond guaranteed by Anglo American plc.
Anglo American Capital has also issued a number of bonds guaranteed by Anglo American plc as a result of reverse enquiries under the programme.
The issues were used to refinance bank debt and were all swapped to floating rate US dollars.
Group financial liabilities consisting of short term borrowings and long term liabilities see note 22 have the following maturity profile: Within 1 year or on Between Between After US$ million demand 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2003 1 Convertible debt 1,088 1,088 Bonds issued under EMTN programme 52 33 1,223 494 1,802 Bank loans and overdrafts 2,633 738 2,306 265 5,942 Obligations under finance leases 21 35 20 64 140 Other financial liabilities 1,388 97 173 129 1,787 Total at 31 December 2003 4,094 903 4,810 952 10,759 At 31 December 2002 Convertible debt 1,084 1,084 Bank loans and overdrafts 1,715 1,277 2,398 321 5,711 Obligations under finance leases 13 16 27 20 76 Other financial liabilities 190 233 422 75 920 Total at 31 December 2002 1,918 1,526 3,931 416 7,791 1 Relates to Anglo American plc.
At 31 December 2003, loans of $212 million 2002: $160 million and $546 million 2002: $399 million due within and after more than one year respectively were secured on the assets of the Group.
Loans repayable after more than five years bear interest at rates which are either fixed or fluctuate in line with market rates.
At 31 December 2003, the rates of interest charged on these loans ranged from 1.5% to 17%.
Loans repayable after more than five years included in the above table as at 31 December 2003 include amounts of $120 million payable by instalments 2002: $178 million.
The aggregate amount of loans, any instalment of which falls due after more than five years, is $184 million 2002: $355 million.
62 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Treasury and risk management A discussion of the objectives, policies and strategies of Group Treasury and Risk Management is given in the financial review on pages 14 to 16.
Summary of the use of derivative instruments by the Group The Group utilises derivative and equity instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
The use of derivative instruments can give rise to credit and market risk.
The Group controls credit risk by entering into derivative contracts only with counterparties who are rated A1 P1, A or better by external rating agencies, or who have received specific internal corporate credit approval.
The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored and reported on to senior management.
Market risk is the possibility that future changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices may make a derivative instrument more or less valuable.
Since the Group utilises derivative instruments for risk management, market risk relating to derivative instruments will principally be offset by changes in the valuation of the underlying assets, liabilities or transactions being hedged.
Foreign exchange risk The Group uses forward exchange contracts, currency swaps and option contracts to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group also uses these instruments to hedge future transactions and cash flows.
As at 31 December 2003 the net amount of unrecognised hedging gains on all foreign exchange risk-related instruments, which had been deferred to a period in respect of which an exposure has been hedged, was $79 million 2002: losses $25 million.
Any ultimate gain or loss resulting from these contracts will be recognised when the instruments expire.
Interest rate risk The Group uses interest rate swap and option contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on a portion of its existing debt and short term investments.
The effect of these derivatives is reflected, as appropriate, in interest expense or interest income.
As at 31 December 2003 the net amount of unrecognised hedging losses on all interest rate risk related instruments, which had been deferred to a period in respect of which an exposure has been hedged, was $30 million 2002: gains $4 million.
Commodity price risk The Group uses forward, spot deferred and option contracts to hedge the price risk of certain commodities that it produces, including gold and copper, and in respect of heating oil purchases.
Gains or losses resulting from these activities are recognised concurrently with gains and losses associated with underlying transactions.
The majority of the deferred gains or losses are unrecognised and the ultimate amount of gains or losses to be realised will depend on commodity price movements until the end of the hedged contracts concerned.
The net forward position of AngloGold was 8.6 million ounces priced forward at 31 December 2003, covering periods up to December 2013, with a marked to market value of negative $664 million at 31 December 2003.
The value was based on a gold price of $416 oz, exchange rates of $ ZAR6.64 and $ AU$1.33 and the prevailing market interest rates and volatilities at the time.
As at 28 January 2004, the marked to market value of the hedge book was a negative $578 million, based on a gold price of $409 oz, exchange rates of $ ZAR7.04 and $ AU$1.29 and the prevailing market interest rates and volatilities at the time.
Other companies undertake gold hedging which is not material to the Group.
Concentration of credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk in respect of current asset investments, debtors and derivative financial instruments.
Given the geographical and business diversity of the Groups debtors, the concentration of credit risk is limited.
In respect of current asset investments and derivative financial instruments, procedures and policies are in place to limit the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty.
The maximum credit risk exposure is limited to fair value see note 22 b.
Numerical disclosures The disclosures present information regarding the Group as a whole and therefore exclude any intra group loan balances.
The disclosure of financial assets and financial liabilities which follows other than the currency disclosures in note 22 e excludes debtors and other current liabilities, as permitted under FRS 13, Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 63 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 a INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY PROFILE The following interest rate and currency profile of the Groups financial liabilities and assets is after taking into account interest rate swaps entered into by the Group: Financial liabilities Non-interest Fixed rate financial liabilities bearing financial Weighted liabilities average period Weighted Floating Fixed Non-interest Weighted for which average rate rate bearing average the rate period until US$ million financial financial financial interest is fixed maturity Currency Total liabilities liabilities liabilities rate % Years Years At 31 December 2003 US$ 5,724 4,363 1,349 12 4.0 4.1 1.1 SA rand 3,832 2,854 890 88 13.2 3.4 4.4 Sterling 62 56 1 5 5.9 0.9 2.1 Euro 825 643 163 19 3.5 2.2 0.5 Canadian $ 20 5 15 1.4 5.0 5.0 Australian $ 28 10 6 12 2.4 2.0 1.3 Other currencies 268 216 41 11 7.2 10.1 2.9 Gross financial liabilities 10,759 8,142 2,455 162 7.3 3.8 2.3 At 31 December 2002 US$ 5,776 4,599 1,157 20 3.2 4.0 0.8 SA rand 713 447 256 10 16.3 1.4 1.0 Sterling 145 138 2 5 7.0 1.2 2.4 Euro 790 571 186 33 3.8 2.4 2.3 Canadian $ 14 14 5.0 Australian $ 23 16 7 8.0 Other currencies 330 286 31 13 9.8 10.3 0.8 Gross financial liabilities 7,791 6,057 1,632 102 5.5 3.5 2.5 Interest on floating rate liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
64 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 a INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY PROFILE continued Financial assets Non-interest bearing financial assets Fixed rate financial assets Weighted average Other period Floating Fixed  which rate rate bearing average the rate US$ million financial financial Equity financial interest is fixed Currency Total assets assets investments assets rate % Years At 31 December 2003 US$ 1,108 954 88 34 32 2.6 0.5 SA rand 1,013 347 346 213 107 11.1 6.4 Sterling 234 164 3 22 45 1.4 1.4 Euro 249 115 2 125 7 2.4 0.1 Canadian $ 15 5 10 Australian $ 90 73 16 1 Other currencies 189 156 8 14 11 1.4 0.2 Gross financial assets 2,898 1,814 447 424 213 9.1 5.1 At 31 December 2002 US$ 1,165 1,071 77 17 SA rand 1,398 594 147 627 30 14.0 1.9 Sterling 220 174 20 26 Euro 184 129 3 29 23 3.0 1.0 Canadian $ 15 5 10 Australian $ 31 12 19 Other currencies 283 115 42 114 12 17.6 1.0 Gross financial assets 3,296 2,100 192 886 118 14.6 1.5 Floating rate financial assets consist mainly of cash, bank term deposits and quoted debt securities.
Interest on floating rate assets is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
Fixed rate financial assets consist mainly of quoted debt securities.
Equity investments are fully liquid and have no maturity period.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 65 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 b FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The estimated fair value of financial instruments at 31 December is shown in the following tables: Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations 2003 2002 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying US$ million fair value value fair value value Cash at bank and in hand 1,094 1,094 1,070 1,070 Current asset investments 1,032 1,032 1,143 1,143 Long term investments excluding own shares 886 772 1,362 1,083 Gross financial assets 3,012 2,898 3,575 3,296 Short term borrowings 4,165 4,094 1,896 1,918 Convertible debt 1,261 1,088 1,088 1,084 Long term borrowings 5,577 5,500 4,476 4,756 Other financial liabilities 77 77 33 33 Gross financial liabilities 11,080 10,759 7,493 7,791 Derivative instruments 2003 2002 Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated fair value fair value Carrying fair value fair value Carrying US$ million asset liability value asset liability value Foreign exchange risk 509 258 172 107 125 7 Interest rate risk 10 18 22 721 Commodity price risk: Gold 498 1,170 315 746 Other commodity derivatives 37 18 5 Other 1 1,017 1,483 194 447 879 8 The following methods were used to estimate the fair value of the financial assets and liabilities: Long term investments fair value represents the market value of quoted investments and directors valuation of other investments: Current asset investments fair value is based on market prices for quoted short term investments.
For non-quoted investments fair value is based on market prices of similar investments: Convertible debt fair value is based on the quoted market value of the convertible bonds: Short and long term debt fair value is determined by reference to quoted market prices for similar issues, where applicable, otherwise carrying value is used as an approximation to fair value: and Derivative instruments fair value is determined by reference to market prices where available, otherwise pricing or valuation models are applied to current market information to estimate their value.
66 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 c UNDRAWN BORROWING FACILITIES The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December: US$ million 2003 2002 Expiry date: In one year or less 2,574 2,972 In more than one year but not more than two years 176 234 In more than two years 2,271 784 5,021 3,990 22 d HEDGING Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
Unrecognised gains and losses on instruments used for hedging at 31 December 2003 are as follows: Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2003 Total net US$ million Gains Losses losses Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 1 January 2003 393 833 440 Less: Gains and losses arising in previous years that were recognised in 2003 149 277 128 Add: Gains and losses arising in 2003 that were not recognised during the year 368 705 337 Currency movements 7 9 16 Unrecognised gains and losses on hedges at 31 December 2003 605 1,270 665 Of which: Gains and losses expected to be recognised during the year 2004 443 585 142 Gains and losses expected to be recognised after 2004 162 685 523 22 e CURRENCY PROFILE The main functional currencies of the Group include the US dollar, South African rand, sterling, euro, Canadian dollar and Australian dollar.
The following analysis of net monetary assets and liabilities shows the Groups currency exposures after the effects of forward contracts and other derivatives used to manage currency exposure.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the operating or functional currency of the operating unit involved and represent the transactional or non-structural exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account, other than certain non-functional currency borrowings which are treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations.
Net foreign currency monetary assets liabilities Other US$ million US$ SA rand Sterling Euro Canadian $ Australian $ currencies Total At 31 December 2003 Functional currency of Group operations: US$ N A 236 72 11 37 19 193 SA rand 113 N A 106 20 28 70 46 157 Sterling 8 N A 14 21 43 Euro 29 44 N A 149 134 Canadian $ 4 N A 4 Australian $ 16 N A 16 Total at 31 December 2003 114 236 222 23 28 33 63 107 At 31 December 2002 Functional currency of Group operations: US$ N A 24 98 91 13 53 83 SA rand 363 N A 93 16 20 8 14 212 Sterling 1 N A 12 15 28 Euro 25 11 N A 2 210 194 Canadian $ 284 N A 284 Australian $ 29 N A 29 Total at 31 December 2002 592 24 180 63 20 3 234 716 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 67 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES PostRestoration, retirement Pensions rehabilitation medical and similar Deferred and US$ million funding obligations taxation environmental Other Total At 1 January 2003 363 180 1,582 491 280 2,896 1 Acquired with subsidiaries 6 152 77 7 230 Disposed with subsidiaries 25 25 Charged to profit and loss 54 98 172 50 33 407 Charged to reserves 21 21 Reclassifications 10 1 2 24 37 Unwinding of discount 8 8 Unused amounts reversed to profit and loss 4 4 6 12 26 Amounts applied 47 76 1 14 34 172 Currency movements 109 25 404 73 41 652 At 31 December 2003 465 216 2,330 652 291 3,954 1 Acquired with subsidiaries includes $5 million relating to the reassessment of the fair value of assets of Minera Sur Andes see note 28.
The amounts of deferred taxation provided in the accounts are as follows: US$ million 2003 2002 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 2,709 1,765 Other timing differences 379 183 2,330 1,582 The potential impact of unprovided deferred tax assets on the future effective tax rate of the Group is discussed in note 10 c. The restoration, rehabilitation and environmental provision represents the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation to rehabilitate environmental disturbances caused by mining operations.
These costs are expected to be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Other provisions mainly consist of provisions for restructuring and reorganisation costs and for other obligations existing at 31 December 2003, which are expected to be utilised during 2004.
24 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL 2003 2002 Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million Authorised: 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 Ordinary shares of 50 US cents each 2,000,000,000 1,000 2,000,000,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 Called up, allotted and fully paid: 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 50,000 50,000 Ordinary shares of 50 US cents each 1,476,304,626 738 1,469,156,171 735 738 735 At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
In the event of winding up, the holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up, or credited as paid up, on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date of the winding up.
During 2003, 15,080 ordinary shares of 50 US cents each were allotted in respect of certain non-executive directors by subscription of their after tax directors fees.
A further 7,133,375 ordinary shares of 50 US cents were allotted on exercise of employee share option plans.
During 2002, 9,490 ordinary shares of 50 US cents each were allotted in respect of certain non-executive directors by subscription of their after tax directors fees.
A further 1,711,833 ordinary shares of 50 US cents were allotted on exercise of employee share option plans.
68 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL continued 1 Former AAC Executive Share Incentive Scheme Options to acquire ordinary shares of 50 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows: Option Options Options Options Options price per outstanding exercised lapsed outstanding Year of grant Date exercisable share 1 Jan 2003 in year in year 31 Dec 2003 1990-1997 1 January 1999 to 15 December 2007 4.74 686,800 183,300 503,500 1998 1 January 2000 to 4 December 2008 4.14 11,894,300 1,782,100 2,500 10,109,700 1999 4 January 2001 to 4 January 2009 3.47 492,800 101,900 390,900 13,073,900 2,067,300 2,500 11,004,100 The above share option prices have been calculated using a weighted average option price based on the shares outstanding at 31 December 2003 and converted to sterling using an exchange rate of 1.00 R11.9345.
Latest performance period end 4 Awards outstanding at 31 Dec 2003 latest release date 1 Deferred bonus matching 283,642 1 January 2006 1 Share incentive plan 265,229 5 December 2006 3 Long term incentive plan 4,691,559 31 December 2005 1 The early exercise of share options is permitted upon the termination of employment, ill-health or death.
2 Outstanding options relate to those individuals whose maturity period has been extended due to missed payments in terms of the scheme rules.
3 The long term incentive awards are contingent on pre-established performance criteria being met.
4 Latest performance period relates only to the long term incentive plan.
For the deferred bonus matching plan and share incentive plan, the dates given are the latest release dates.
Employee benefit trust The provision of shares to certain of the Companys share option and share incentive schemes is facilitated by an employee benefit trust.
During 2003, 253,363 2002: 1,842,226 shares were sold to employees on exercise of their options and provisional allocations were made to options already awarded.
The shares held by the trust have waived the right to receive dividends.
The market value of the 56.7 million shares held by the trust at 31 December 2003 was $1,225 million.
At 31 December 2002 the market value of the 56.9 million shares held by the trust was $846 million.
The costs of operating the trust are borne by the Group but are not material.
25 COMBINED STATEMENT OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS AND MOVEMENT IN RESERVES Issued Profit share Share Merger Other and loss 1 US$ million capital premium reserves reserves account Total Balance at 1 January 2003 735 1,216 636 716 12,958 16,261 Profit for the financial period 1,592 1,592 Dividends paid and proposed 766 766 Shares issued 3 68 71 Realisation of merger reserve 176 176 Unrealised profit on deemed disposal 13 13 2 Currency translation differences 3,282 3,282 Less: related tax charge 59 59 Balance at 31 December 2003 738 1,284 460 716 17,196 20,394 1 Certain of the Groups subsidiaries operate in South Africa, where significant exchange control restrictions on distributions limit the Groups access to distributable profits and cash balances.
2 An explanation of the currency translation differences included in the profit and loss reserve above is included in the financial review on page 15.
70 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT ANALYSIS a Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities US$ million 2003 2002 Group operating profit subsidiaries 1,611 2,341 Exceptional charges all non cash items 286 47 Group operating profit before exceptionals 1,897 2,388 Depreciation and amortisation charges 1,463 1,101 Increase in stocks 302 117 Increase decrease in debtors 246 67 Increase in creditors 348 48 Increase in provisions 38 115 Other items 14 16 Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,184 3,618 b Financing US$ million 2003 2002 Increase decrease in short term borrowings 875 514 Increase in long term borrowings 531 2,932 Net movement in minorities shares and loans 3 1 Exercise of share options 71 41 Issue of shares in subsidiaries 305 Financing 1,785 2,458 c Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt US$ million 2003 2002 Decrease increase in cash in the year 51 60 Cash inflow from debt financing 1,406 2,418 Cash inflow from management of liquid resources 182 1,021 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 1,639 3,379 Loans and current asset investments acquired with subsidiaries 746 212 Loans and current asset investments disposed with subsidiaries 5 4 1 Cessation of consolidation of KCM 148 Exchange adjustments 675 121 Movement in net debt 3,055 3,560 Net debt at start of year 5,578 2,018 Net debt at end of year 8,633 5,578 1 KCM ceased to be consolidated by the Group during 2002 see note 29.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 71 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT Acquisitions Disposals Overdrafts Other excluding cash excluding cash included non-cash Exchange US$ million 2002 Cash flow and overdrafts and overdrafts in debt movements movements 2003 1 Cash at bank and in hand 1,040 51 30 75 1,094 Debt due after one year 5,873 531 537 2 453 179 6,665 Debt due within one year 1,888 875 209 3 30 453 642 4,094 7,761 1,406 746 5 30 821 10,759 Current asset investments 1,143 182 71 1,032 Total 5,578 1,639 746 5 675 8,633 1 Net of bank overdrafts in 2002.
28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES The following were the principal acquisitions made during the year to 31 December 2003, accounted for under the acquisition method: Name of company acquired Percentage acquired Date of acquisition 1 Kumba Resources Limited 57% December 2003 Lisheen 41% January 2003 AngloGold Limited 3.1% Piecemeal Anglo American Platinum Corporation Limited 6.5% Piecemeal 1 Date of acquisition of controlling interest.
The fair values of the acquired assets and liabilities in the table on page 73 are provisional and will be finalised in the 2004 financial statements when the final values arising from the fair value exercises are confirmed.
72 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES continued Analysis of fair value of identifiable net assets of subsidiaries acquired 2003 2002 Anglo Other US$ million Kumba Lisheen AngloGold Platinum acquisitions Total Total Net assets acquired: Tangible fixed assets 1,959 86 234 424 131 2,834 2,849 Investments in joint ventures 2 2 8 Investments in associates 14 14 10 Other financial assets 27 4 31 8 Stocks 228 7 42 277 153 Debtors 193 11 42 246 189 Cash at bank and in hand 190 7 17 214 157 Short term borrowings 127 73 9 209 103 Other current liabilities 155 24 60 239 186 Long term borrowings 487 50 537 109 Provisions for liabilities and charges 208 7 10 225 136 Equity minority interests 670 67 109 32 526 55 Net tangible assets acquired 966 7 301 533 75 1,882 2,895 Goodwill arising on acquisition 50 50 246 Total cost of acquisition 966 7 301 533 125 1,932 3,141 Satisfied by: Net cash acquired 190 7 17 214 157 Expenses payable 21 Deferred consideration 6 6 1 Forgiveness of receivable due from other JV partner 36 36 Transfer from joint ventures to subsidiaries 33 33 51 Amounts paid in prior years 240 240 Net cash paid received 536 3 301 533 102 1,469 2,911 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 73 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES continued Kumba On 7 February 2003 the Group implemented its option to acquire a further 10.5% of Kumba Resources Limited Kumba through Stimela Mining Limited for $112 million.
This increased the Groups total holding in Kumba to 20.1% and the Group accounted for Kumba as an associate from this date.
The Group further increased its stake to 35.3%, resulting in a mandatory purchase offer to Kumbas shareholders on 31 October 2003.
Acceptances of this offer raised the Groups total shareholding to 66.6% at a cost of $539 million with effect from 5 December 2003.
Accordingly, the Group has accounted for Kumba as a subsidiary from this date.
The acquisition of Kumba as a subsidiary has been accounted for in accordance with the Companies Act.
A provisional fair value table of Kumbas assets and liabilities for this transaction is set out below.
The preliminary fair value exercise has indicated that the fair value adjustments shown below would not have been materially different on any of the dates of acquisition during 2003, and accordingly separate fair value tables are not presented.
Profit after tax of Kumba for the period from 1 July 2003 to 31 December 2003 was R240 million, as reported in their interim accounts to 31 December 2003.
Kumbas profit after tax as reported in its statutory accounts for the year ended 30 June 2003 was R718 million.
The assets and liabilities as at 5 December 2003 and the total consideration paid are set out in the following table: Accounting policy Provisional US$ million Book amount Revaluations alignments fair values Net assets acquired: Intangible fixed assets 4 4 Tangible fixed assets 1,304 602 53 1,959 Investments in joint ventures 2 2 Investments in associates 14 14 Other financial assets 27 27 Stocks 228 228 Debtors 193 193 Cash at bank and in hand 190 190 Short term borrowings 127 127 Other current liabilities 155 155 Long term borrowings 552 65 487 Provisions for liabilities and charges 192 16 208 Equity minority interests 437 222 11 670 Net tangible assets acquired 499 445 22 966 Goodwill arising on acquisition Total cost of acquisition 966 Satisfied by: Net cash acquired 190 Amounts paid in prior years 240 Net cash paid 536 The provisional fair value adjustments in the above table represent the following: Revaluations of reserves and resources, land and buildings and plant and equipment to fair value: and Accounting policy adjustments for differences between local and UK GAAP.
74 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES continued Lisheen Due to the financial relationship between the Group and Ivernia West Ivernia, the Group has participated fully in the earnings of Lisheen throughout the year.
On 17 February 2003, the Group acquired the $146 million debt owed by Lisheen to a consortium of banks.
As part of this agreement, the banks forgave 50% of this debt.
On 26 September 2003, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 40.6% of the issued share capital of Lisheen from Ivernia.
Consideration comprised $1.8 million in cash and the forgiveness of an outstanding debtor balance of $36 million owed by Ivernia to the Group.
In order to give a true and fair view, the piecemeal approach to calculating goodwill has been adopted for this transaction in accordance with FRS 2 Accounting for Subsidiary Undertakings.
This represents a departure from the statutory method, under which goodwill would be calculated as the difference between cost and fair value on the date that Lisheen became a subsidiary.
Adopting the statutory method would not give a true and fair view because it would result in the Groups share of historical losses and impairment write downs, during the time Lisheen was a joint venture, being recharacterised as goodwill.
The effect of this departure is to decrease retained profits and purchased goodwill arising on acquisition by $326 million as set out below.
The profit after tax of Lisheen for the year ended 31 December 2003 was $4 million.
Provisional US$ million Book value Revaluation fair values Net assets acquired: Tangible fixed assets 91 5 86 Cash at bank and in hand 7 7 Other working capital 6 6 Borrowings 146 73 73 Provisions 7 7 Net tangible assets acquired 61 68 7 Goodwill arising on acquisition Total cost of acquisition 7 Satisfied by: Net cash acquired 7 Forgiveness of receivable due from other joint venture partner 36 Share of net liabilities previously held as investments in joint ventures 33 Net cash received 3 Under the statutory method: Net assets acquired 7 1 Consideration 333 Goodwill arising under statutory method 326 Goodwill arising on acquisition Difference 326 The provisional fair value adjustments in the above table represent revaluations, reflecting the revaluation of reserves and resources, land and buildings and plant and equipment to fair value.
1 $293 million of cash contributed since the commencement of the joint venture and $40 million of cash, expenses and debt forgiven.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 75 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES continued AngloGold and Anglo Platinum During the year the Group acquired a further 3.1% interest in AngloGold in piecemeal acquisitions and a further 6.5% interest in Anglo Platinum.
The profit after tax of AngloGold for 2003 was $330 million 2002: $347 million and Anglo Platinum was $297.2 million 2002: $548.1 million as reported in their statutory accounts.
The assets and liabilities acquired are set out in the following table: AngloGold Anglo Platinum Provisional Provisional US$ million Book amount Revaluations fair value Book amount Revaluations fair value Tangible fixed assets 234 234 424 424 Equity minority interests 67 67 109 109 67 234 301 109 424 533 Goodwill arising on acquisition Total cost of acquisition 301 533 Satisfied by: Net cash paid 301 533 Revaluations in the above table represent the revaluation of reserves and resources to fair value.
Other acquisitions The assets and liabilities acquired in other acquisitions during the year are set out in the following table: Accounting Book policy Provisional US$ million amount Revaluations alignments fair value Net assets acquired: Tangible fixed assets 134 4 1 131 Other financial assets 4 4 Stocks 42 42 Debtors 42 42 Cash at bank and in hand 17 17 Short term borrowings 9 9 Other current liabilities 59 1 60 Long term liabilities 50 50 Provisions for liabilities and charges 9 1 10 Equity minority interests 30 2 32 Net tangible assets acquired 82 7 75 Goodwill arising on acquisition 50 Total cost of acquisition 125 Satisfied by: Net cash acquired 17 Deferred consideration 6 Net cash paid 102 The provisional fair value adjustments in the above table represent the following: Revaluations, principally reflecting the revaluation of mining properties and leases to fair value: and Accounting policy adjustments, reflecting adjustments for differences between local and UK GAAP.
76 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARIES continued In December 2003, the Group announced two further strategic acquisitions, subject to competition approval.
Mondi Packaging Europe agreed to acquire 100% of the Bauernfeind corrugated paper and packaging business.
This included a combination of waste-based corrugated paper and converting assets in Germany, Belgium, Austria, Poland, Italy, Switzerland and China.
The agreement values Bauernfeind at 345 million $420 million.
Frantschach has agreed to acquire the sack business of Mexican paper and packaging group Copamex, the largest industrial sack producer in Mexico and the seventh largest sack producer worldwide, for a consideration of $52 million.
Completion of this acquisition is anticipated in the first quarter of 2004.
At 31 December 2003, these acquisitions were subject to certain conditions and were not included in the 2003 financial statements.
Minera Sur Andes formerly Disputada The fair value of the net assets of Minera Sur Andes, which was acquired on 13 November 2002, has been reassessed during the current year to reflect additional information which has become available concerning the conditions that existed on the date of acquisition.
The resulting changes are set out in the following table: Fair value 2003 as previously fair value Fair value US$ million reported adjustments as restated Net assets acquired: Tangible fixed assets 1,364 9 1,373 Stocks 46 4 42 Debtors 46 46 Cash at bank and in hand 83 83 Other current liabilities 39 39 Provisions for liabilities and charges 120 5 125 1,380 1,380 Goodwill arising on acquisition Total cost of acquisition 1,380 1,380 The fair value adjustments in the above table represent the following, resulting from additional information becoming available: Identifiable fixed assets not initially considered in the fair value exercise: Revised fair value of supplies inventory: and Revaluation of the future decommissioning and restoration provisions.
The profit after tax of Minera Sur Andes for the year ended 31 December 2003 was $109 million 2002: $26 million.
Additional consideration is potentially payable by the Group if the copper price reaches certain agreed average thresholds in any of the three and a half years following the acquisition.
No additional consideration has been paid to date.
The total maximum payment is capped at $120 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 77 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES US$ million 2003 2002 Net assets disposed: Tangible fixed assets 34 67 Stocks 10 10 Debtors 20 30 Short term borrowings 3 Other current liabilities 26 25 Long term liabilities 2 4 Provisions for liabilities and charges 25 62 Profit on disposal 9 5 Disposal proceeds 17 21 Total proceeds 17 21 Deferred consideration or allotted shares 14 Deferred consideration received in respect of prior periods 3 Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries during the year 3 24 Subsidiaries disposed of in the year principally include Jerritt Canyon, which was sold in June 2003.
The cash flows of the disposed subsidiaries did not have a material effect on the cash flow statement.
The deferred consideration received in 2002 was in respect of the disposal of interests in Shaft Sinkers Pty Limited in 2001.
The Group ceased to consolidate its 33.1% effective interest in Konkola Copper Mines KCM with effect from 5 February 2002, when it ceased to control the assets or management of that undertaking.
Following the cessation of consolidation of KCM and the agreement to restructure KCM as announced in August 2002, the Group retained no equity interest in KCM as at 31 December 2002.
30 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS US$ million 2003 2002 Contracted but not provided 873 337 31 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities comprise aggregate amounts of $290 million 2002: $278 million in respect of loans and performance guarantees given to banks and other third parties.
AngloGold North America has $45 million of reclamation bonds with various federal and governmental agencies, to cover potential environmental obligations.
These obligations are guaranteed by AngloGold Limited.
There are a number of legal or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Provision is made for all liabilities which are expected to materialise.
In addition to the amounts relating to Group companies above, under Chilean law payment of customs duties associated with capital assets can be deferred for up to seven years.
As at 31 December 2003, Collahuasi has potential deferred customs duties of $11 million 2002: $40 million.
Anglo American plc and its wholly-owned subsidiary Anglo American Corporation of South Africa guarantee the external borrowings of certain Group subsidiaries.
78 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32 OPERATING LEASES At 31 December 2003, the Group was committed to making the following payments during the next year in respect of operating leases: 2003 2002 Land and Land and US$ million buildings Other buildings Other Expiring within: One year 20 19 19 15 Two to five years 72 38 38 41 After five years 37 17 37 11 129 74 94 67 33 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans for the majority of its employees.
It also operates post-retirement medical arrangements in southern Africa and North America.
The policy for accounting for pensions and post-retirement benefits is included in note 1.
The assets of the defined contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds.
The charge in respect of these plans is calculated on the basis of contributions payable by the Group in the financial year.
The post-retirement medical arrangements provide health benefits to retired employees and certain dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain criteria.
The majority of these plans are unfunded.
The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded.
The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group, in independently administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice throughout the world.
The unfunded pension plans are principally in Europe and South America.
The retirement benefit charge for the year is as follows: US$ million 2003 2002 Defined contribution pension plans 131 99 Defined benefit pension plans 108 55 Post-retirement medical plans 54 17 Defined contribution plans The pension cost represents the actual contributions payable by the Group to the various plans.
At 31 December 2003, there were no material outstanding prepaid contributions, and so no prepayment or accrual has been disclosed in the balance sheet in relation to these plans.
Defined benefit plans The above defined benefit pension plan cost consists of a regular cost of $63 million 2002: $47 million and a variation cost of $45 million 2002: $8 million.
The Group adopts a straight-line method of amortising unrecognised amounts over the future working lifetimes of active employees.
Post-retirement medical plans The accumulated benefit obligation and the annual cost of accrual of benefits are assessed by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit method.
The accumulated benefit obligation calculated as at 31 December 2003 was $527 million 2002: $392 million.
The provision recorded on the balance sheet as at 31 December 2003 amounted to $465 million 2002: $363 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 79 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Defined benefit pension plans Qualified actuaries carry out full valuations every three years using the projected unit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31 December 2003.
The actuary to the majority of the South African pension plans is an employee of the Group and is supported by external advisers.
The actuaries to the other plans are independent of the Group.
At 31 December 2003 the estimated market value of the assets of the funded pension plans was $2,831 million 2002: $2,109 million.
The market value of assets was used to determine the funding level of the plans.
The market value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 90% 2002: 89% of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions.
In particular, the funding levels of the UK funded pension plans have fallen in the past year as a result of an increase in the inflation assumption, although this has been offset by increasing asset values.
Companies within the Group are paying contributions as required in accordance with local actuarial advice.
As the majority of the defined benefit pension plans are closed to new members, it is expected that contributions will increase as the members age.
The benefit obligations in respect of the unfunded plans at 31 December 2003 were $154 million 2002: $125 million.
To the extent that there is a difference between pension costs and contributions paid, a prepayment or provision arises.
The accumulated difference provided in the balance sheet at 31 December 2003 gives rise to a prepayment of $170 million 2002: $168 million and a provision of $216 million 2002: $180 million.
Actuarial assumptions The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and pension costs under SSAP 24 are detailed below shown as weighted averages : 2003 2002 2001 Southern The Southern The Southern The Africa Americas Europe Africa Americas Europe Africa Americas Europe %%% % % % % % % Average discount rate for plan liabilities 9.9 7.3 5.5 11.5 7.2 5.6 11.6 7.2 5.9 Average rate of inflation 5.7 2.9 2.6 7.4 3.0 2.3 6.8 3.1 2.4 Average rate of increase in salaries 6.8 4.7 3.4 8.5 4.8 3.1 8.2 4.8 3.8 Average rate of increase of pensions in payment 5.7 5.0 2.8 7.3 3.8 2.6 6.5 4.4 2.6 Average long term rate of return on plan assets 11.0 8.7 7.0 11.9 8.2 6.9 11.5 7.9 6.3 Expected average increase in healthcare costs 6.6 7.7 N A 9.8 6.1 N A 9.9 6.0 N A FRS 17 background In November 2000 the Accounting Standards Board issued FRS 17 Retirement Benefits replacing SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
The full implementation of FRS 17 has been deferred, though certain disclosures are required in the transition period for periods ending on or after 22 June 2001.
These further disclosures are included below.
Under SSAP 24, the projected unit method was one of the acceptable valuation methods.
Under FRS 17, it is the only acceptable method of valuation.
The pension plans have been valued historically using the projected unit method and so there is no change to the method of valuation of the defined benefit plans.
FRS 17 balance sheet disclosure Under FRS 17, the assumption for the average discount rate for plan liabilities is based on AA corporate bonds of a suitable duration and currency.
The discount rate and other actuarial assumptions are generally the same as for SSAP 24 and are given above.
The market value of the assets in the plans and the long term expected rate of return on the pension plans as at 31 December 2003, 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 are detailed below.
Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Rate of Fair value Rate of Fair value Rate of Fair value Fair value At 31 December 2003 return % US$ million return % US$ million return % US$ million US$ million Equity 12.4 918 8.5 105 7.9 773 1,796 Bonds 8.8 230 9.0 119 5.0 334 683 Other 8.7 312 6.4 10 5.1 30 352 1,460 234 1,137 2,831 Present value of pension plan liabilities 1,484 366 1,462 3,312 Deficit in the pension plans 24 132 325 481 Deferred tax 74097144 Net pension liability 17 92 228 337 80 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Rate of Fair value Rate of Fair value Rate of Fair value Fair value At 31 December 2002 return % US$ million return % US$ million return % US$ million US$ million Equity 12.9 729 8.9 69 7.8 572 1,370 Bonds 9.7 214 8.1 77 5.3 292 583 Other 9.6 119 3.3 9 6.0 28 156 1,062 155 892 2,109 Present value of pension plan liabilities 1,068 261 1,162 2,491 Deficit in the pension plans 6 106 270 382 Deferred tax 2 32 81 115 Net pension liability 4 74 189 267 Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Rate of Fair value Rate of Fair value Rate of Fair value Fair value At 31 December 2001 return % US$ million return % US$ million return % US$ million US$ million Equity 12.6 583 8.0 77 7.1 735 1,395 Bonds 8.7 182 7.6 80 4.9 239 501 Other 8.0 72 3.2 5 6.1 24 101 837 162 998 1,997 Present value of pension plan liabilities 812 211 1,034 2,057 Deficit in the pension plans 25 49 36 60 Surplus restriction 25 25 Deferred tax 15 10 25 Net pension liability 34 26 60 The surplus restriction in 2001 arises where pension surpluses are not expected to give rise to future contribution reductions or refunds because of the extent of the surplus or because of local restrictions over the use of the surplus.
The Group is continuing to review the impact of legislation passed in 2001 in South Africa on the useable surpluses in its South African plans.
Further clarification and guidance has been published on this during 2003.
The actuaries to the Group plans have not yet finalised their calculations in respect of the apportionment of the surplus from the plans.
The liabilities shown above in respect of South Africa have been increased where applicable based on the actuaries current estimates of complying with this new legislation at the relevant date.
The net pension liability comprises $17 million in respect of plans in surplus 2002: $6 million: 2001: $62 million and $354 million in respect of plans in deficit 2002: $273 million: 2001: $122 million.
The net post-retirement medical plan liability arises as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Southern The Southern The Southern The US$ million Africa Americas Total Africa Americas Total Africa Americas Total Present value of post-retirement medical plan liabilities 486 41 527 359 33 392 286 31 317 Deferred tax 146 12 158 108 10 118 86 9 95 Net post-retirement medical plan liability 340 29 369 251 23 274 200 22 222 The Groups provision of anti-retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff has not significantly impacted the post-retirement medical plan liability.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 81 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued FRS 17 profit and loss account disclosure Had the Group adopted FRS 17 early, amounts included in the consolidated profit and loss account in respect of defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans would have been as follows: 2003 2002 PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement US$ million plans medical plans Total plans plans medical plans Total plans Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit Current service cost 63 7 70 47 6 53 Past service costs 10 16 26 2 2 Other amounts charged to profit and loss curtailments and settlements 2 12 14 12 12 Total operating charge credit 71 11 82 49 8 41 Analysis of the amount charged to other finance income costs Expected return on plan assets 217 217 179 179 Interest cost on plan liabilities 224 48 272 182 37 219 Net charge to other finance income 74855 33740 Total charge to profit and loss account 78 59 137 52 29 81 FRS 17 statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL disclosure Amounts included in the consolidated STRGL in respect of defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans would have been stated as follows: 2003 2002 PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement US$ million plans medical plans Total plans plans medical plans Total plans Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets gain loss 108 108 370 370 Experience losses gains arising on plan liabilities 9 9 168 29 197 Effects of changes in assumptions underlying the plan liabilities loss gain 145 3 148 37 4 33 Total actuarial losses gains recognised in the STRGL 37 12 49 239 33 206 The gain of $108 million 2002: loss of $370 million between actual and expected return on plan assets is 4% 2002: 18% of the plan assets at 31 December 2003.
The experience loss of $9 million 2002: gain of $197 million arising on the plan liabilities represents less than 1% 2002: 7% of the present value of the plan liabilities at 31 December 2003.
The total actuarial loss of $49 million 2002: loss of $206 million represents 1% 2002: 7% of the present value of the plan liabilities at 31 December 2003.
82 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued FRS 17 liability disclosure The movement during 2003 and 2002 in the FRS 17 pension and post-retirement medical liability before allowance for deferred tax shown on the previous page can be analysed as follows: 2003 2002 PostPostPension retirement Pension retirement US$ million plans medical plans Total plans plans medical plans Total plans As at 1 January 382 392 774 85 317 402 Current service cost 63 7 70 47 6 53 Contributions 76 47 123 51 24 75 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 6 6 35 35 Past service costs and effects of settlements and curtailments 8 4 12 2 14 12 Net finance costs 7 48 55 3 37 40 Actuarial gains losses 37 12 49 239 33 206 Currency movements 54 111 165 22 103 125 As at 31 December 481 527 1,008 382 392 774 Had the Group adopted FRS 17 early, the consolidated profit and loss reserve would have been restated as follows: US$ million 2003 2002 Profit and loss reserve at 31 December in the financial statements 17,225 12,958 Less: FRS 17 Retirement benefit reserve 706 541 Add: SSAP 24 balances: 357 262 Prepayment see note 18 170 168 Pension provision see note 23 216 180 Post-retirement medical provision see note 23 465 363 Less: attributable deferred tax 154 113 Profit and loss reserve as adjusted 16,876 12,679 The above table does not include a restatement of the charges for pension and post-retirement medical plans in the current year profit and loss account that would arise from the adoption of FRS 17.
Potential volatility of FRS 17 The method for calculating the net pension asset under FRS 17 is likely to lead to volatility in the amount to be included in the balance sheet.
Pension plan liabilities are measured by reference to long term AA bond yields that can move substantially and rapidly according to market conditions.
The plans assets, which principally comprise equities, are also subject to large market swings.
34 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS With effect from 1 June 2001, the cross-holding between Anglo American and fide Beers was eliminated and Anglo American now accounts for its 45% interest in DB Investments DBI, the new holding company of fide Beers Socit Anonyme.
As a result of fide Beers partial interest in Debswana Diamond Company Proprietary Limited one of the shareholders in DBI, the Group accounts for an additional 3.65% of DBIs post tax equity earnings.
Furthermore, the Group accounts for the dividends attributable to 10% non-cumulative preference shares with a redemption value of $701 million in DBI as part of operating profit, on the basis that the preference shares are part of the Groups investment in the diamond business.
The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sales, purchase and service transactions with joint ventures, associates and others in which the Group has a material interest.
These transactions are under terms that are no less favourable than those arranged with third parties.
These transactions, in total, are not considered to be significant.
Amounts owing to the Group by joint ventures are disclosed in note 18.
Dividends received from joint ventures and associates during the year totalled $426 million 2002: $258 million, as disclosed in the consolidated cash flow statement on page 45.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 83 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 35 RECONCILIATION OF NET OPERATING ASSETS TO NET ASSETS US$ million 2003 2002 Net operating assets see note 2 29,709 21,122 Fixed asset investments 7,828 7,376 Current asset investments 1,032 1,143 Cash at bank and in hand 1,094 1,070 Other non-operating assets and liabilities 4,700 2,868 Long term liabilities 6,665 5,873 Provisions for liabilities and charges 3,954 2,896 Equity minority interests 3,396 2,304 Proposed dividend 554 509 Net assets 20,394 16,261 36 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY Profit and loss of parent As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The loss after tax for the year for the parent company amounted to $254 million 2002: loss of $148 million.
Balance sheet US$ million 2003 2002 Fixed assets Fixed asset investments 10,127 10,135 Current assets Amounts due from subsidiaries 1,228 184 Cash at bank and in hand 8 65 1,236 249 Short term borrowings Bank overdraft 328 Bank loans due within one year 1,575 991 Amounts owed to subsidiaries 5,166 2,912 7,069 3,903 Other current liabilities Proposed dividend 300 286 Other creditors 17 14 Net current liabilities 6,150 3,954 Long term liabilities Convertible debt see note 21 1,088 1,084 Bank loans due in more than one year 35 1,633 Net assets 2,854 3,464 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital see note 24 738 735 Share premium account 1,284 1,216 Capital redemption reserve 82 82 Profit and loss account 750 1,431 Total shareholders funds equity 2,854 3,464 84 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY continued Statement of movement in shareholders funds and movement of reserves Issued Share Capital Profit share premium redemption and loss US$ million capital account reserve account Total Balance at 1 January 2003 735 1,216 82 1,431 3,464 Loss for the financial year 254 254 Shares issued 3 68 71 Dividends paid and proposed 427 427 At 31 December 2003 738 1,284 82 750 2,854 Dividends paid and proposed relate only to shareholders on the United Kingdom principal register excluding dividends waived by Greenwood Nominees Limited as nominees for Butterfield Trust Guernsey Limited, the trustee for the Anglo American employee share scheme.
Dividends paid to shareholders on the Johannesburg branch register are distributed by a South African subsidiary in accordance with the terms of the Dividend Access Share Provisions of Anglo American plcs articles of association.
Fixed asset investments Investment in subsidiaries Own US$ million equity shares Total Cost At 1 January 2003 9,513 685 10,198 Currency movements 88 At 31 December 2003 9,513 693 10,206 Provisions for impairment At 1 January 2003 8 55 63 Charge for the year 16 16 At 31 December 2003 8 71 79 Net book value At 31 December 2003 9,505 622 10,127 At 31 December 2002 9,505 630 10,135 The audit fee in respect of the parent company was $20,000 2002: $18,120.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 85 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37 GROUP COMPANIES The principal subsidiaries, proportionally consolidated joint arrangements, joint ventures and associates of the Group at 31 December 2003, and the Group percentage of equity capital, joint arrangements and joint venture interests are set out below.
All these interests are held indirectly by the parent company and are consolidated within these financial statements.
The Group has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with section 231 b of the Companies Act would result in a statement of excessive length.
Country of Percentage of 2 Subsidiary undertakings incorporation Business equity owned Platinum Anglo American Platinum Corporation Limited South Africa Platinum 74.1 Gold AngloGold Limited South Africa Gold 54.5 Coal 1 Anglo Coal South Africa Coal 100 Anglo Coal Callide Pty Limited Australia Coal 100 Base Metals 1 Black Mountain Mineral Development South Africa Copper, zinc and lead 100 1 Namakwa Sands South Africa Mineral sands 100 1 Gamsberg Zinc Corporation South Africa Zinc project 100 Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co. Ltd Canada Copper and zinc 100 Bamisa Barro Alto Minerao Limitada Brazil Nickel project 100 Ambase Exploration Namibia Proprietary Limited Skorpion Namibia Zinc project 100 Anglo American of South America Limitada Catalo Brazil Niobium 100 Minera Sur Andes Limitada formerly Compaia Minera Disputada fide Las Condes Limitada Chile Copper 100 Empresa Minera fide Mantos Blancos SA Chile Copper 99.9 Codemin SA Brazil Nickel 90 Minera Loma fide Nquel, CA Venezuela Nickel 91.4 Minera Quellaveco SA Peru Copper project 80 Lisheen unincorporated Ireland Zinc and lead 100 Industrial Minerals Tarmac Group Limited UK Construction materials 100 Tarmac France SA France Construction materials 100 Bilfinger Berger Baustoffe GmbH Germany Construction materials 100 Lausitzer Grauwacke GmbH Germany Construction materials 100 Steetley Iberia SA Spain Construction materials 100 WKSM SA Poland Construction materials 100 Tarmac Severokamen A. S. Czech Republic Construction materials 95.7 Copebrs Limitada Brazil Sodium tripolyphosphate and fertilisers 73 Midland Quarry Products Limited UK Construction materials 50 Paper and Packaging Mondi Limited South Africa Paper and Packaging 100 Mondi Packaging Europe SA Luxembourg Corrugated Packaging 100 Neusiedler AG Austria Graphic Paper 100 Frantschach Packaging AG Austria Industrial Packaging 70 Ferrous Metals 1 Scaw Metals Moly-Cop South Africa Chile Steel and engineering works 100 Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation Limited South Africa Steel, vanadium and ferroalloys 80 Kumba Resources Limited South Africa Iron ore, coal and heavy minerals 66.6 Industries 1 Boart Longyear Boart Longyear Limited South Africa Tools, equipment and contracting services 100 The Tongaat-Hulett Group Limited South Africa Sugar, starch and aluminium 52.9 1 A division of Anglo Operations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary.
2 The proportion of voting rights of subsidiaries held by the Group is the same as the proportion of equity owned.
86 Financial statements Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 37 GROUP COMPANIES continued 4 Country of incorporation Business Percentage of equity owned 3 Proportionally consolidated joint arrangements Drayton AustraliaCoal 88 Moranbah North Australia Coal 88 Dartbrook Australia Coal 78 German Creek Australia Coal 70 Moura Australia Coal 51 Joint ventures Aylesford Newsprint Holdings Limited UK Newsprint 50 Compaia Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi SCM Chile Copper 44 Nkomati South Africa Nickel 25 Associates DB Investments SA Luxembourg Diamonds 45 Gold Fields Limited South Africa Gold 20.1 Queensland Coal Mine Management Pty Ltd Australia Coal 33.3 Cerrejn Zona Norte SA Colombia Coal 33.3 Carbones del Cerrejn LLC Anguilla Coal 33.3 Carbones del Guasare SA Venezuela Coal 24.9 Samancor Limited South Africa Chrome and manganese 40 Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd Gemco Australia Manganese 40 Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd Temco Australia Manganese 40 Palabora Mining Company Limited South Africa Copper 28.7 Terra Industries Inc. USA Nitrogen fertilizer and methanol 48.5 3 The wholly-owned subsidiary Anglo Coal Holdings Australia Limited holds the proportionally consolidated joint arrangements.
4 All equity interests shown are ordinary shares.
38 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER END OF YEAR On 9 February 2004, an agreement was entered into to sell the Groups 25% interest in the Nkomati Nickel joint venture to Anglovaal Mining Limited for a cash consideration of R260 million $37 million.
Following the announcement on 10 December 2003 of the acquisition of the corrugated paper and packaging business of Roman Bauernfeind Holding AG, the directors allotted 5,309,286 ordinary shares of $0.50 each on 12 February 2004 in consideration of the acquisition.
The shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and application has been made to list them on the Johannesburg, Swiss, Namibia and Botswana stock exchanges.
The shares will rank pari passu with the other ordinary shares in issue.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Financial statements 87 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES PLATINUM stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
Where relevant, the estimates were also prepared in compliance with regional codes and requirements e. g. The South African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves, The SAMREC Code, 2000.
The Mineral Resources are additional to the Ore Reserves, unless otherwise stated.
During 2003 improved Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource classifications were carried out at all operations.
As a result some material was transferred from Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources which explains the major change in both the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource figures between 2002 and 2003 for Merensky Reef, UG2 and the Platreef.
As a consequence of the same exercise, some Mineral Resources previously classified as Indicated were transferred to Inferred.
1 Reported and Attributable % refers to 2003 only.
For the 2002 Reported and Attributable figures, please refer to the previous Annual Report.
2 Includes 100% of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources of consolidated entities and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates where applicable.
Where the Groups share is more than 50%, 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are reported.
3 4E PGE grade, i. e. platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold.
4 Joint venture agreements are still being finalised.
Once finalised, the above statement will be affected.
5 Merensky Reef changes due to separate reporting of Platreef from 2003.
Historically the Platreef and the Merensky Reef were combined.
For comparison the 2002 figures were split accordingly.
6 Platreef stockpiles included in the Ore Reserves.
The Platreef is mined by open pit.
7 Total imperial units: tonnage is reported in million short tons Mton, grade in troy ounces per short ton oz t and contained metal in million troy ounces Moz.
GOLD stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
2 AngloGold report Mineral Resources as inclusive of those Mineral Resources modified to produce the Ore Reserve JORC, i. e. the Ore Reserves are included in the Mineral Resource figures.
3 Material changes to the South Africa region Mineral Resource due to removal of 65Moz from the Western Ultra Deep Mineral Resource.
The adjustment is due to restriction of the maximum depth to 4,500m up from 5,000m last year.
Increased Mineral Resource cut-off was also applied to all South Africa region operations.
4 Total imperial units: tonnage is reported in million short tons Mton, grade in troy ounces per short ton oz t and contained metal in million troy ounces Moz.
90 Ore reserves and mineral resources Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED COAL stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
The Coal Resources are additional to the Coal Reserves, unless otherwise stated.
Trade collieries refers to operations primarily associated with the production of coal for the world export market, while Power generation collieries refers to operations that primarily produce coal for internal power generation requirements.
2 Includes 100% of Coal Reserves and Coal Resources of consolidated entities and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates where applicable.
Where the Groups share is more than 50%, 100% of the Coal Reserves and Coal Resources are reported.
3 Coal Reserves are quoted on a run of mine ROM reserve tonnage basis, which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant, and on a Saleable reserve tonnage basis, which represents the product tonnes produced.
4 Coal Resources are quoted on a mineable in situ MTIS tonnage basis in addition to the ROM reserves.
5 Yield percentage represents the ratio of Saleable tonnes to ROM tonnes and is quoted on an in situ to in situ basis or on an air dry to air dry basis.
6 The coal quality is quoted as a weighted average of the heat content of all saleable coal products.
The coal quality for the Coal Resources are reported on an in situ basis.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Trade collieries meet the contractual specifications for coking coal, metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal.
Coal quality parameters for Coal Reserves for Power generation collieries meet the specification of the individual supply contracts.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Ore reserves and mineral resources 91 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED COAL continued stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
6 Heat content kcal kg Gross as 2 Tonnes million received 4 4 MTIS MTIS 1 1 Classification Reported Attributable 2003 2002 2003 4 Anglo Coal Coal Resources Trade collieries South Africa Measured 370 325 6,220 Indicated 230 240 6,240 Measured and Indicated 100% 100% 600 565 6,230 Australia Measured 250 360 6,370 Indicated 150 80 6,090 Measured and Indicated 100% 75.2% 400 440 6,270 Colombia Measured Indicated Measured and Indicated 33.3% 33.3% Venezuela Measured 4 7 7,260 Indicated 6 7,580 Measured and Indicated 24.9% 24.9% 10 7 7,480 Total Measured 624 692 6,290 Indicated 386 320 6,200 Measured and Indicated 99.2% 89.4% 1,010 1,012 6,260 Power generation collieries South Africa Measured 60 55 5,180 Indicated 30 15 4,870 Measured and Indicated 100% 100% 90 70 5,090 Australia Measured 300 305 4,980 Indicated 340 330 4,440 Measured and Indicated 100% 100% 640 635 4,690 Total Measured 360 360 5,010 Indicated 370 345 4,470 Measured and Indicated 100% 100% 730 705 4,740 Other Coal Resources South Africa Measured 70 210 5,870 Indicated 3,280 3,250 4,690 Measured and Indicated 100% 100% 3,350 3,460 4,720 Australia Measured 590 650 6,330 Indicated 455 525 6,480 Measured and Indicated 100% 79.8% 1,045 1,175 6,390 Total Measured 660 860 6,280 Indicated 3,735 3,775 4,910 Measured and Indicated 100% 95.2% 4,395 4,635 5,120 Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
Other Coal Resources refers to project areas not included in the Trade collieries or Power generation collieries.
The Coal Reserve tonnages reflect a gain of 199.8 million saleable tonnes on a reportable basis and corresponding proportional decrease in Other Coal Resources due to the conversion of the Kriel South Coal Resources to Coal Reserves in South Africa 103.4 million saleable tonnes and the conversion of the Theodore North Coal Resources to Coal Reserves in Australia 96.4 million saleable tonnes.
In addition, 86.6 million saleable tonnes were depleted during 2003 by mining operations.
All footnote references are explained on page 91.
92 Ore reserves and mineral resources Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED BASE METALS stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
3 Increase in Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources due to new information from core drilling, different parameters for grade modelling and a different mine design.
4 The oxide Ore Reserve was depleted during the year.
5 Increase in Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources due to new information from core drilling, different parameters for grade modelling and a different mine design.
6 A better understanding of the deep portion of the Mantos Blancos orebody has shown that the mineralisation is less continuous than previously interpreted.
This has resulted in a major reduction in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources.
7 ICu insoluble copper total copper less acid soluble copper, ASCu acid soluble copper, TCu total copper.
8 Overall gains in the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are due mainly to new information from a major drilling campaign at the Rosario Mine, and also a re-evaluation of stockpile inventories carried out in October 2003.
94 Ore reserves and mineral resources Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED BASE METALS continued stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Ore reserves and mineral resources 95 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED BASE METALS continued stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
3 The increase in Ore Reserves is due to conversion of Mineral Resource to Ore Reserve during 2003.
Broken Hill Ore Reserves contain 14.4 million tonnes of silver ore at 52 g t. 4 Swartberg Ore Reserves contain 1.5 million tonnes of silver ore at 42 g t. 5 The decrease in Mineral Resources is due to material from the Deeps Project transferring to Ore Reserve.
Broken Hill Mineral Resources contain 6.5 million tonnes of silver ore at 57 g t. 6 Swartberg Mineral Resources contain 19.4 million tonnes of silver ore at 36 g t. Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Ore reserves and mineral resources 97 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED BASE METALS continued stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
3 From February to December 2003 some 87.6 thousand tonnes at 8.97%Zn of Proved Ore Reserves were mined from Gamsberg via an exploration adit to supplement the Black Mountain concentrator to replace depleted reserves from the Broken Hill orebody until mining from Broken Hill Deeps is in full production.
98 Ore reserves and mineral resources Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED BASE METALS continued stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Ore reserves and mineral resources 99 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED FERROUS METALS & INDUSTRIES stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
3 Grades reported are beneficiated washed samples grades, as beneficiated grades are used in mine scheduling, quality control and blending rather than in situ grades.
Yield cut-offs of 30% for massive manganese and 16% for loose pisolitic manganese are used in conjunction with lithology to further differentiate the ore waste envelope.
4 The current Ore Reserve grades and tonnages are reported after crushing, washing and screening.
The 2002 figures were reported in situ.
5 Zimbabwe Alloys ZAL is currently focused on its smelting and refining operations.
ZAL receives a large portion of its feed from tributors who mine on the companys claims.
6 Hotazel Manganese Mines report Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources as inclusive of those Mineral Resources modified to produce the Ore Reserve JORC, i. e. the Ore Reserves are included in the Mineral Resource figures.
7 The total Mineral Resource tonnage includes 103 Mt of low carbon Cr O material.
The processing plant is optimised for high carbon Cr O.
Currently 2 3 2 3 it is not envisaged that ZAL will resume low carbon ferrochrome production.
100 Ore reserves and mineral resources Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED FERROUS METALS & INDUSTRIES continued Kumba Resources Limited Anglo American plcs interest in Kumba increased to 66.6% effective December 2003.
Kumbas statement of Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources appears here as presented in their June 2003 Annual Report.
This statement accordingly reflects the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources as of 30 June 2003.
Except for normal production depletion, there have been no material changes to these figures since publication.
The figures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources.
Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources are calculated according to each centres resource utilisation formula.
1 Held as a 60:40 joint venture with Ticor Limited.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Ore reserves and mineral resources 101 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED FERROUS METALS & INDUSTRIES continued Kumba Resources Limited continued 1 Operations projects Estimated Ore Reserves Tonnes million Estimated Mineral Resources in situ resources Proved Probable Total Tonnes million Grade RoM Saleable RoM Saleable RoM Saleable Cut-off grade Measured Indicated Inferred Total Mt Grade Iron Ore Hope Downs 2 Hope 1 190 259 449 61.4%Fe@57% 199 291 29 519 61.5%Fe Sishen South 129.85 126.01 86.92 342.78 64.76%Fe Zandrivierspoort 447.0 447.0 35.0%Fe Coal 3 Kalbasfontein 15.26 15.26 raw coal 3 Strehla 22.52 22.52 raw coal 4 Moranbah South 586.46 123.73 710.19 raw coal Heavy Minerals 5 6 KwaZulu-Natal 4.45 83.99 88.44 2.5%Ilm 5 7 Eastern Cape 232.94 232.94 4.5%Ilm Limpopo Province 5 8 sand 12.50 31.30 43.80 5.9%Ilm Limpopo Province 5 9 rock 53.60 112.30 165.90 22.4%Ilm 1 Project is defined by the undertaking of at least pre-feasibility study work.
2 Joint venture with Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd, Australia.
5 Held as a 60:40 joint venture with Ticor Limited.
6 Includes Braeburn, Fairbreeze D, Block P and KwaZulu Natal deposits.
8 Includes Gravelotte pebble deposit and Letsitele sand deposit.
9 Includes Gravelotte and Letsitele rock deposit.
102 Ore reserves and mineral resources Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES CONTINUED INDUSTRIAL MINERALS stated as at 31 December 2003 The Groups Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 1999 as a minimum standard.
2 Tonnes million Grade 1 1 Classification Reported Attributable 2003 2002 2003 2002 Phosphate products %P O %P O 2 5 2 5 Copebrs Proved 100.8 89.1 13.3 12.7 Ore Reserves Probable 6.2 15.4 11.3 12.6 Total 100% 73% 107.0 104.6 13.2 12.7 Copebrs Measured 9.6 6.4 13.9 12.8 Mineral Resources Indicated 11.4 21.3 11.3 10.7 Measured and Indicated 100% 73% 21.0 27.7 12.5 11.2 Rounding of figures may cause computational discrepancies.
ANGLO PAPER AND PACKAGING The Mondi Group in South Africa owns and manages 316,508 2002: 335,474 hectares of sustainable man-made forests.
All of its producing forests have been certified by the Forest Stewardship Council.
The annual harvest is currently 5.0 million tonnes, with the Group procuring 1.3 million tonnes in order to supplement its internal requirements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2003 Ore reserves and mineral resources 103
