10 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has applied the Combined Code principles as shown below.
It has reviewed the recommendations of the Higgs Review on non-executive directors and the Smith Report on audit committees, both published in January 2003, which will result in a revised Code.
In anticipation of such revision, the Board is putting in place procedures to enable it to report future compliance.
Directors As at 29 March 2003, the Board comprised 12 directors, being the Chairman, Chief Executive, five executive and five non-executive directors.
Luc Vandevelde headed the Board as Chairman and Chief Executive until 1 September 2002 when Roger Holmes was appointed Chief Executive and Luc reverted to his original position as Chairman.
Since 1 January 2003, he has fullled his role as Chairman on a part-time basis, spending 60% of his time on Group business.
Key features of the corporate governance structure are: As Chairman, Luc Vandevelde remains closely involved with the development of corporate strategy and is also Chairman of the Board of Marks and Spencer Financial Services and of the Boards corporate social responsibility committee.
He is also a member of the nomination committee which is chaired by our Senior Independent Director, Brian Baldock.
Roger Holmes exercises his delegated powers as Chief Executive through a newly formed Group Operating Committee comprising the executive directors and members of senior management.
It meets fortnightly in retail and finance operating forums.
The non-executive directors provide a wide range of skills and experience to the Group.
They bring an independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, risk and people through their membership of the Board and its committees.
All non-executive directors are considered independent.
A new Corporate Governance Group has been formed to advise the Chairman and the Board, led by the Group Secretary, Graham Oakley.
It comprises heads of secretariat, legal, audit and risk, insurance, pensions and senior remuneration and senior succession.
A full list of the directors, along with their biographies and the Board committees on which they sit, is given on page 19 of the Annual Review.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary, who ensures that the Board, which meets formally eight times per year, receives appropriate and timely information for its decision-making, that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are met.
The Secretary also assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
Directors receive appropriate induction training when they join the Group and coaching to develop individual skills as required.
There is an established procedure whereby any director, wishing to do so in the furtherance of his or her duties, may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the Board retires by rotation each year and all directors are required to offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Principal Board committees The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board committees, which operate within clearly dened terms of reference, reporting regularly to the Board, and include: Audit Committee: assists the Board in fullling its overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management, and the audit process.
It comprises five non-executive directors, is chaired by Kevin Lomax and meets formally three times per year increasing to four times during 2003.
The external auditors and the Chief Internal Auditor attend all meetings.
The Financial Services division has its own Audit and Compliance Committee, which includes independent non-executive directors, and which meets three times per year and reports regularly to the Financial Services Board and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the nature and amount of non-audit work undertaken by  LLP PwC each year to satisfy itself that there is no impact on their independence.
In some cases, the nature of the advice may make it more timely and cost-effective to select PwC who already have a good understanding of the Group.
PwC may also be appointed for consultancy work, but only after rigorous checks, including competitive tender, to confirm they are the best provider.
PwC are also subject to professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role they perform on behalf of our shareholders.
Details of this years fees are given in note 3 on page 32.
A new engagement and fee approvals process was put in place during the year requiring prior Audit Committee approval for some engagements and excluding others.
com 11 Remuneration Committee: ensures the executive directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded, giving due regard to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
It comprises three non-executive directors, is chaired by Dame Stella Rimington, and meets formally five times per year.
The Remuneration Report appears on pages 13 to 20 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each director.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman together with the executive Board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Board considers each year whether shareholders should be invited to consider separately the Remuneration Report at the AGM and is proposing a separate resolution to shareholders at the 2003 AGM, as also required by new legislation.
Nomination Committee: ensures there are appropriate procedures in place for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of directors and that successional plans are in place.
It receives a report twice per year from the Company Chairman on Board structure, size, composition and successional needs, thereby keeping under review the balance of membership between executive and non-executive directors and that the Board has the required blend of skills and experience.
It comprises all the non-executive directors together with Luc Vandevelde, is chaired by Brian Baldock, and meets formally twice per year.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee: provides the Board with an overview of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of the Groups activities.
It is chaired by Luc Vandevelde, comprises main Board members executive and non-executive and senior management and meets formally three times per year.
The Groups risk assessment process is applied to identify key CSR risks and opportunities in areas such as product safety, sustainable raw materials, animal welfare, ethical trading, employment policy, health and safety and community involvement.
The Committee then reviews strategy, policy development and performance within this framework.
The Groups first CSR Review is available from the website at www.
com the company or by telephoning 0800 591 697.
Relations with shareholders The Group is committed to ongoing communication across its entire shareholder base, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
This is achieved principally through annual and interim reports, quarterly trading statements and the AGM.
The Groups website at www.
com contains corporate and customer information updated on a regular basis.
Regular dialogue and presentations take place throughout the year with institutional investors.
The AGM, held in July in London, is well attended by shareholders who receive a business presentation and have the opportunity to ask questions of the full Board including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The results of the proxy voting are declared at the meeting and are published on the Groups website together with a resum of the meeting.
Accountability and audit Responsibility for risk and internal control The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst exceeding the needs of our customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and systems of internal control, and for monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control, and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Further independent assurance is presented by an internal audit function, which operates across the Group, and the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area and major project identify their risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
This information is communicated upwards on a lter basis, culminating in a comparison with the executive directors assessment of the Groups risks and discussion by the Board of the Group Risk Prole.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It has been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull Working Party.
12 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Corporate governance Internal control Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, it has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with formally dened lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
These include: communication of the Groups strategy, objectives and targets: appointment of employees of the necessary calibre to full their allotted responsibilities: review by operating divisions of their annual and three-year operating and capital plans with the relevant executive directors prior to submission to the Board for approval.
This includes the identication and assessment of risks: regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts: monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial performance with budget: clearly dened capital investment control guidelines: operating policies and procedures: reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board: review of treasury policies by the Treasury Committee with changes approved by the Board: and review of social, environmental and ethical matters by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Assurance On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups: assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and a report from internal audit on the risk assessment process: and systems of internal control primarily through agreeing the scope of the internal audit programme and reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and interim financial statements and a review of the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identied risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken.
The work of the internal audit department is focused on areas of priority as identied by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved each year by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
The Board receives a full report from the Chief Internal Auditor each year on the departments work and findings and regular interim updates on specic issues.
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial condition of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The directors, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
Compliance with the Combined Code The directors confirm that for the year ended 29 March 2003 the Company complied with all the Code provisions.
