Corporate Governance was unable to comply with the provision Compliance requiring an Audit Committee of at least three Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high Directors all of whom should be Non-Executive.
ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment The paragraphs below, together with the report the Group supports the highest standards in on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 29 to corporate governance.
34, describe how these principles are applied within Marshalls.
"Other than as indicated below, the Board considers that the Company has complied with the 14 Principles of Good Governance and Code The Board of Best Practice the ""Combined Code"", which are The Board is responsible for the overall direction, incorporated into the United Kingdom Listing strategy, performance and management of Authority Listing Rules, throughout the year Marshalls plc."
Short biographies of each of the ended 31 December 2003. current Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 17.
Due to the timing of the changes of the Directors, the Company has not complied throughout the For the year ended 31 December 2003, the Board whole of the year with all of the provisions of the comprised four Executive Directors throughout Combined Code.
There were a number of changes amongst the Non-Executive Directors which are The Combined Code requires the role of the noted below.
Mr M. A. Stacey resigned as a Chairman and Chief Executive to be separated.
In accordance with Throughout 2003, the Group had an Executive the Articles of Association, Mr J. W. Footman retired Chairman and a Divisional Chief Executive for the by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and he Landscape Products Division which represents did not seek re-election.
Mr R. A. Barfield resigned over 80 per cent of Group turnover.
Each were members of both the in March 2003, with effect from 1 January 2004, Mr Audit Committee and the Remuneration D. G. Holden was appointed Chief Executive and Committee during the period of their office.
Mr from that date there is clear separation of the roles A. J. Allner and Mr R. T. Scholes were appointed as of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Directors on 23 July 2003 and became members of both the Audit Committee For the period 13 June 2003 to 23 July 2003 there and Remuneration Committee.
They have were no Non-Executive Directors.
The Company remained members of each for the remainder of was, therefore, not compliant with the provision the year ended 31 December 2003. that Non-Executive Directors should comprise not less than one third of the Board nor with the All the Non-Executive Directors who served provision requiring there to be an identified during the year are considered to be independent Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The within the meaning of Provision A.
3.2 of the whole of the Board acted as the Nominations Combined Code and represent a source of strong, Committee thus making the Company nonindependent advice and judgement.
The Senior compliant throughout the year with the provision Independent Director was Mr J. W. Footman from 1 requiring a majority of Non-Executive Directors.
January 2003 until 28 May 2003 and Mr R. T. During the period from 13 June 2003 to 23 July Scholes from 23 July 2003.
There was no Senior 2003, when the Company had no Non-Executive Independent Director between 28 May 2003 and Directors, it was unable to comply with the 23 July 2003. provision requiring that the Remuneration Committee comprise only Non-Executive Directors and similarly for the period from 7 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 the Company 26 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 From 1 January 2004, the Board comprised a NonAudit Committee Executive Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief The Audit Committee meets at least three times a Executive, Finance Director and two independent year and is comprised of Mr R. T. Scholes and Mr Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that A. J. Allner, both independent Non-Executive this structure is appropriate for Marshalls at this Directors.
It was chaired from 23 July 2003 by Mr time.
The separation of the roles of Chairman and R. T. Scholes having previously been chaired by Mr Chief Executive has taken place as noted on the R. A. Barfield up to 13 June 2003. previous page.
The Board have agreed new Terms of Reference The Board considers that each Director is able to for the Audit Committee and these are consistent bring independent judgement to the Companys with current best practice.
The Audit Committee reviews the annual The Directors are subject to election at the Annual Financial Statements and the interim and General Meeting immediately following their preliminary announcements prior to submission appointment and to re-election every three years.
to the Board, compliance with accounting Any Director attaining the age of 70 would be standards, the scope and extent of the external subject to re-election annually.
audit programme, and the appointment and remuneration of the Auditors.
It also monitors the The Board meets eight times a year on a formal operation and effectiveness of the Groups basis and is supplied in a timely manner with internal controls.
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
There is an The Company does not have an in-house internal agreed schedule of matters reserved to it for audit function.
Instead, it has concluded that it is collective decision and the Board and Committee more effective for firms of external accountants papers are sent out seven days before meetings other than the Companys Auditors to carry out take place.
regular internal audit assignments of a financial and systems nature.
The Audit Committee The Group is centralised in its management, reviewed the planned Internal Audit Programme.
decision making and financial control.
The Board, The results of a number of assignments have been at its meetings, reviews the financial results of all reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
A detailed annual budget and These assignments form part of a much wider business plan is prepared for each operation in programme of independently audited aspects of conjunction with local management.
These are the Groups operations.
then compared in full detail with the monthly management accounts.
Executive Directors are required to comment on all areas where Remuneration Committee performance departs from current expectations.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr A. J.
Any significant variances are discussed at Board Allner and Mr R. T. Scholes, and meets at least twice level and appropriate action taken.
It was chaired by Mr A. J. Allner from 23 July have access to the advice and services of the 2003 having been chaired by Mr J. W. Footman Company Secretary and there is an established until 28 May 2003. procedure for all Directors to take independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties, if The Board have agreed new Terms of Reference necessary, at the Companys expense.
for the Remuneration Committee and these are consistent with current best practice.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 27 Corporate Governance continued The report on Directors Remuneration is set out There is an ongoing process for identifying, on pages 29 to 34. evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks through a Risk Committee which reports directly to the Board and which has been in place Nomination Committee throughout the year ended 31 December 2003 and up to the date of this report.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering the appointment of Non-Executive The Risk Committee comprises Mr C. T. Burnett, Mr and Executive Directors.
The Nomination D. G. Holden and Mr I. D. Burrell.
It is chaired by Mr Committee in 2003 comprised all the members of C. T. Burnett.
The Risk Committee is responsible for the Board.
From 1 January 2004 the Nomination identifying, evaluating and managing any Committee comprised Mr A. J. Allner and Mr R. T. material risks which might threaten the Groups Scholes who are the two independent Nonbusiness objectives.
In undertaking this work, it Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee receives quarterly risk reviews and an annual risk present their recommendations to the Board.
The assessment report carried out by the head of each appointment of Directors is made by the Board business unit.
From this information, the through a formal process.
Committee has compiled a Risk Register which identifies the Groups key risk areas, the probability of these risks occurring and the Relations with Shareholders impact they would have.
In addition the Risk The Company recognises the importance of Register identifies the controls that exist to communicating with its shareholders to ensure manage and, where possible, minimise or that its strategy and performance is understood.
"The Risk Register is used to This is achieved principally through the Annual direct action programmes to test the Report and the Annual General Meeting ""AGM""."
effectiveness, including independent audit In addition, a range of corporate information is assessment, of those controls.
This process is available to investors on the Companys website.
regularly reviewed by the Board and it accords with the internal control guidance for Directors in Formal presentations are made to institutional the Combined Code.
shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board In addition to the major risk review process, the recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for Group operates under an established internal dialogue with private shareholders.
All Directors control framework, the key features of which normally attend the AGM and are available to include clearly defined reporting lines and answer any questions that shareholders may wish authorisation procedures and a comprehensive to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to budget and monthly reporting system.
shareholders at least 21 days before the meeting.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a The Board has carried out an annual assessment poll is validly called and after each such vote the of the Groups risk management and internal number of proxy votes received for and against control system for the year to 31 December 2003 the resolution is announced.
by considering reports from both the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
Risk Management and Internal Control Going Concern The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for The Directors consider, after making appropriate the Groups system of internal control and for enquiries at the time of approving the financial reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is statements, that the Company and the Group designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the have adequate resources to continue in risk of failure to achieve business objectives and operational existence for the foreseeable future, can only provide reasonable and not absolute and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
going concern basis in the preparation of the 28 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 Financial Statements.
