CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code W&DB is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its business activities.
The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period, and to the date of the report, with the following exceptions: The Nomination Committee is formed on an ad hoc basis whenever required.
Derek Andrew has a two-year rolling service contract.
David Thompsons two-year rolling service contract has been replaced by a new contract settling at six months notice on 25 July 2003.
Both are described in the Directors remuneration report.
Structure The Board comprises four Non-executive Directors, one of whom is Chairman and five Executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors all possess a wide range of skills and experience and all exercise independent judgement with the exception of David Thompson who, because of his past experience as a long-serving Executive Director, cannot be considered independent.
Peter Lipscomb, Deputy Chairman, has been appointed the senior independent Non-executive Director.
His experience and business interests ensure his independence from management.
The Board meets 12 times each year in the normal course of business and additionally as required.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for approval ensuring that it considers strategic, financial, organisational and compliance matters with timely information provided in advance of each meeting.
All Directors receive within their Board papers details of the Groups performance against budget and individual reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and divisional managing directors.
The Board also receives presentations from senior executives on a regular basis, which provides an opportunity for formal discussions with senior managers.
There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee, which comprises the five Executive Directors, meets weekly.
The Board is briefed on the decisions reached by the Committee including those involving risk management and health and safety issues.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also to independent legal advice.
On appointment to the Board all Executive Directors receive appropriate training: all Directors receive a full induction programme covering briefings and meetings with divisional directors and senior management.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity following appointment and to re-election at intervals not exceeding three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years.
The Board considers that all Directors bring an individual judgement to the Boards deliberations in respect of strategy, performance, resources, key appointments and standards of conduct.
All Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
All Board Committees have agreed terms of reference.
The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley Chairman, Lord Hodgson and Peter Lipscomb.
It monitors the relationship with the Auditors, agrees their scope of work and fees and reviews the results of the full year audit and the interim results each year.
It also assesses annually the cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the Auditors.
Board appointments are considered by the Nomination Committee which comprises David Thompson Chairman, Miles Emley, Ralph Findlay and Peter Lipscomb.
It met once during the year for the appointment of Alistair Darby.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Peter Lipscomb Chairman, Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson with Ralph Findlay in attendance if required.
It is responsible for agreeing contract terms, remuneration and benefits, including bonuses, for Executive Directors and, where appropriate, senior executives.
It is also responsible for the granting of share options under the Companys share option schemes.
W&DB Annual Report 2003 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Communication W&DB recognises the importance of maintaining a strong relationship with its shareholders as a key priority, with the annual report and interim report as the principal media used, as well as regular institutional presentations, covering reports on trading, market conditions and strategy.
W&DB also maintains a website to provide up-to-date information on its operations and brands.
All Company announcements are available on this site together with slides for analysts presentations.
The annual general meeting, which is regularly attended by approximately 300 shareholders, provides an important forum for communicating directly with shareholders and the opportunity for shareholders to raise questions with the Board.
At the annual general meeting the Chairman announces the results of proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Internal control W&DB, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, has complied with the Combined Code provisions on internal control.
The Executive Directors examine, and report to the Board as necessary, the procedures required to implement in full the guidance on internal control produced by the Turnbull Committee.
In addition, the Board has taken account of the Association of British Insurers guidelines on socially responsible investment and in this respect has been registered on the FTSE4Good index.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for ensuring that information supplied to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Groups position.
It has carried out these responsibilities throughout the year.
There is a weekly review by the Executive Directors and an annual review by the Board, of the risks faced by the Group.
These cover financial, operational and risk management issues day-to-day control is implemented by divisional management teams which report to divisional managing directors.
In addition a workshop facilitated by  LLP took place in March 2003 at which all senior managers and Executive Directors considered the potential risks which could threaten achievement of the Groups strategic plans and budgets.
Specifically, the objectives of the workshop were to: identify the range of risks faced and prioritise them: identify and assess the internal controls in place to manage the key risks: and develop action plans, where appropriate, to improve the response to the key risks identified.
The action plans were subsequently considered by Divisional Boards and by the Audit Committee and were reviewed by the Board.
The plans provide the basis of the Groups response to all risks to which the Group is exposed and are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group at the weekly Executive Directors meetings and at monthly briefing meetings with the senior executive management group.
Risk and litigation issues are also reviewed regularly by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
The principal elements of the system of internal control, which is designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which the Group is exposed, include: a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, responsibility and accountability: a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities with the annual Group budget being formally approved by the Board: and a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major investment and strategic plans including capital expenditure and development programmes.
Significant treasury, cash management and investment matters are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Groups system of internal controls can only manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can, therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
34 W&DB Annual Report 2003 Health and safety The management of health and safety matters is based on the Health and Safety Executives management system HSG 65.
All areas of the Group have been risk assessed and appropriate control measures implemented.
Regular Safety Committee meetings are held throughout the Group and independent experts such as the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA and insurers are used.
Going concern The Directors are confident, having reviewed the Groups budget for the 53 weeks to 2 October 2004 and relevant plans beyond that date, that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
This review included an analysis of business operating plans, proposed capital expenditure and associated cash flow projections.
It also included a comparison of results and ratios within the Groups committed borrowing facilities.
It is therefore considered appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By Order of the Board Leslie Porter Secretary 3 December 2003 W&DB Annual Report 2003 35
