Corporate Governance Introduction strategy and long range plans.
The Board meets annually The Board confirms that it has complied throughout the period specically to discuss strategy in addition to assessing, on relating to this report with the provisions of the Combined Code an ongoing basis, the implications of current events for the of Good Practice in Corporate Governance, as laid down in the Group.
The Board separately assesses acquisitions and Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority as set out below, divestments: save in respect of provisions A.
2.2 and D. 3.1 in relation to operating plans and performance.
This includes a thorough the number of independent non-executive directors.
review of annual budgets, management accounts and the The Board and its committees business performance, treasury policy and practice, and Board stafng levels and recruitment.
Performance against budget The Board comprises three executive and four non-executive is reported to the Board each month with details of variances, directors, all of whom are subject to retirement by rotation in and forecasts of each half year results are reviewed every accordance with the Articles of Association.
The executive directors and the senior management directors are appointed for periods of three years and executive meet weekly to monitor Group progress: directors do not have contracts lasting more than one year.
share capital including equity debt ratios and dividend The number of non-executives deemed independent, applying payment policy: generally accepted criteria, and therefore also the composition financial structure and prole: of the committees, did not comply with the Combined Code throughout the period.
The Board believes that the non-executive financial and operating risk control: and directors bring considerable experience and judgement to the Board and act independently in carrying out their responsibilities.
corporate governance and the Groups ethical and The senior non-executive director is Robert Shrager.
A training manual has been prepared for directors and additional The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that training is given to new directors where appropriate.
board procedures are followed and there are procedures in place for the directors to take independent advice if necessary.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the Groups strategic development and for ensuring that control and management are The Board has delegated responsibilities for detailed assessments of the highest standard, performance is optimised and that the in certain areas to committees as set out below.
interests of shareholders are fully safeguarded.
Audit Committee Board meetings were formally held ten times in the period and Chaired by Robert Shrager were attended in full by directors with the exception of one The Audit Committee comprises the four non-executive directors director at two meetings and where appropriate, senior and its meetings are attended at its request by the external executives of the business.
Comprehensive papers on items to auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Business be discussed at a board meeting are circulated to directors and Risk and others as required.
attendees in advance of the meeting.
The external auditors also have private meetings with the Informal meetings are held by non-executive directors with Audit Committee.
executive directors and senior executives between board The Audit Committee meets four times a year, has written terms meetings and significant amounts of information are provided of reference and is responsible for: on an ad hoc basis.
A schedule of matters specially reserved for the Boards decision recommending to the Board the appointment of the external has been agreed.
The Board considers: auditors and agreeing their fees: 25 Corporate Governance continued reviewing the conduct and control of the annual external considering the continuation in service of a director as an audit and the ongoing Group internal audit: executive or non-executive director: and reviewing financial statements and recommending them to recommending directors who are retiring by rotation to be the Board: put forward for re-appointment.
reviewing the adequacy of the system of internal control: and The Nomination Committee, after the appropriate review procedure, recommended the appointment of the new directors ensuring the maintenance of a control environment directed in the period.
towards the proper management of risk.
The Nomination Committee has the power to employ the services The Committee monitors both audit and non-audit services of any advisor it deems necessary to full its responsibilities.
provided to the Company by the Auditors to ensure that Auditors independence is safeguarded and the level of non-audit services Internal control does not compromise that independence.
In the period under The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of review, in addition to statutory audits, services from auditors internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a comprised taxation compliance and special projects, the review system is designed to monitor and manage rather than eliminate of a new accounting system and remuneration policy advice the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives, and prior to the appointment of NBSC.
provides only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year the directors Remuneration Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial and Chaired by Charles Thompson non-financial controls.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the four non-executive directors and meets periodically as required but not less than The operation and monitoring of the Groups system of internal three times a year.
It is responsible for overseeing the policy control is regularly reviewed by the Group Business Risk regarding executive remuneration and for determining the department, whose head of function reports directly to the Group remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors.
It Finance Director and also has direct access to the Chairman of also approves grants under option and long-term incentive plans.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews It consults with the Group Chief Executive in relation to matters reports and recommendations from the Group Business Risk relating to directors who report to him and senior executives.
department and quarterly reports on internal financial control, retail, supply chain, xed assets and treasury.
It also considers Further details of the Groups Remuneration policy and advisors accounting policies and internal control matters raised by the is set out in the Board Report on Directors Remuneration which external auditors, and reports on major projects, including is set out on pages 20 to 24.
This policy was submitted to and system implementation.
approved by the shareholders at the 2002 Annual General Meeting and will be submitted for approval again at the 2003 The pro-active management of risk has always been part of the Annual General Meeting.
decision making process within the Group and remains a prime responsibility of the Board.
The risk profile of the Group is Nomination Committee changing as the business change programme progresses and Chaired by John Westwood impacts on retail operations and supply chain.
Such changes The Nomination Committee comprises the four non-executive have attendant risks which are being carefully considered and directors and meets periodically as required.
It is responsible for: addressed by the senior executives and the Board on an ongoing basis.
reviewing the Board structure, size and composition: identifying and nominating candidates to ll board vacancies The Board approves the Groups annual objectives and agrees and to put in place plans for succession: an annual budget within that framework.
Performance against 26 the budget is reviewed weekly and monthly and forecasts New suppliers updated accordingly.
In addition to completing a compliance questionnaire all new suppliers are visited by trained technical professionals.
The Board also has the primary responsibility for the approval of A process of third party verification of standards is being major capital expenditure and nancing.
Below board level there implemented and this will be performed on a risk basis by are clearly defined levels of management authority for the country of origin.
approval of capital revenue expenditure and investments divestments, which are reviewed periodically.
Remedial action will be taken to address any issues raised during this process.
The Board has approved the policies and controls of the Group treasury function.
Further details are contained in the Finance Existing suppliers Review on pages 14 and 15.
Existing suppliers are visited on an ad hoc basis and remedial action is taken to address any issues raised.
Issues in respect of internal control and potential breaches that arise during the year are brought to the attention of the Audit Training Committee for discussion and review to ensure that the During the period 15% of suppliers underwent a structured appropriate actions are being taken.
training session part of which covered the elements of the Socially Responsible Trading Policy.
Management of the key risks associated with the Group achieving its business plans has been delegated to executive Supplier appraisals management and is embedded in the business processes.
It is proposed to implement supplier appraisals, which will enable the supply chain to be ranked by the various constituent elements.
The Group has commenced a review of its risk framework in A mixture of both internal external resources will be utilised in conjunction with external consultants, including monitoring and performing these appraisals.
Any resulting recommendations will be implemented The Group Chief Executive is the director responsible for during the current year and the structure and objectives of the ethical issues.
Group Business Risk department realigned to the major risks identied.
Environmental An Environmental Review of the Matalan operations was performed The Board confirms, as detailed above, that throughout the by an independent environmental consultancy URS Corporation period there was an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating Limited in 2002.
This involved the identication of environmental and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process impacts from Company operations, the development of a risk is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull reduction plan, and the review and update of the Groups guidance on internal control.
Corporate citizenship The review identied that the main environmental impacts are: Ethical vehicle fuel usage and vehicle emissions: The Board considers the ethical performance of its suppliers as an important part of the business relationship.
The Groups the use of energy: Socially Responsible Trading Policy is based on the the sourcing of products: internationally accepted standards set out in the Ethical Trading Initiatives Base Code of Labour Standards.
This policy, which is the construction phase of store development: available on the Groups website and is displayed on notice packaging management and disposal: and boards throughout head office and stores, forms part of the supplier manual, which is issued to all suppliers.
27 Corporate Governance continued The Company has continued improvement in cardboard and Relations with shareholders plastic waste recycling and has appointed a packaging The Group communicates with institutional investors through half manager.
In addition, during the period, it introduced vehicle fuel yearly analyst briengs, site visits and individual meetings.
usage monitoring systems and programmes to improve vehicle Regular two-way communication with fund managers, institutional efficiency as well as specifying a non-ozone depleting refrigerant investors and analysts is actively pursued and this encompasses in new stores.
issues such as performance, policy and strategy.
This gives the An environmental management plan has been developed to Board an understanding of investor priorities and improves build on these existing initiatives.
This includes: investors knowledge of the Groups business and performance.
the formalisation of waste management data collection The Groups Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity systems and procedures: to communicate with shareholders and the Group Chairman comments on current business activity.
The meeting is attended environmental risk management systems for the selection of by the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees to suppliers and for the construction of new stores: answer questions on their committees activities.
the review of fuel storage and delivery procedures: Shareholders are sent a Report and Accounts and Interim continuing development of the environmental management Statement each year and the Groups website includes general system: and financial information on the Group.
the development of the key performance indicators for the main environment risks: and measures to ensure ongoing compliance with laws and regulations.
The revised environmental policy is available on the Company website and is displayed on notice boards throughout the head By order of the board ofce and stores.
John G Berry The Group Finance Director is responsible for environmental Company Secretary issues.
