McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Governance The Board recognises its responsibility to the Groups shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Group and the Groups compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code issued in June 1998 the 1998 Combined Code.
A new Combined Code was published by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003, intended to apply to reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board anticipates moving towards compliance with the new code during the current financial year commencing 1 September 2003.
Statement by the Directors The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 1998 on Compliance with the Combined Code throughout the year with the exception of the following: Code of Best Practice Sir George Young and S E K Purser, Non-Executive Directors, held office during the year upon letters of appointment which were not for specified terms provision A6.1.
Since the year end they have agreed to new letters of appointment under which they will hold office for a specified term, and J Stevenson has also been appointed as a Non-Executive Director for a fixed term.
The reappointment of Non-Executive Directors is not automatic.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that some service contracts for long serving Directors currently have termination periods in excess of the recommended one year maximum provision B1.7.
However, for a number of years new Directors have been appointed on one year notice period contracts.
During the year and until his resignation on 7 August J S McCarthy, then Chairman, was a member of the Remuneration Committee provision B2.2.
The Board considers that the committee maintained the appropriate balance in the year by virtue of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following his appointment to the Board as a NonExecutive Director with effect from 10 November 2003, J Stevenson will become a member of the Remuneration Committee.
During the year and until his resignation J S McCarthy was also a member of the Audit Committee.
For the period since 7 August 2003 the Committee has not comprised at least three directors provision D. 3.1.
Following his appointment to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 10 November 2003, J Stevenson will become a member of the Audit Committee.
The Workings of the Board The Board and its Committees As from the appointment of G N Day to the Board on 1 October 2002 and for the remainder of the year the Board comprised 5 Executive Directors and, until the resignation of J S McCarthy on 7 August 2003, 3 Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
Directors are subject to re-election every three years and subject to election at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The names of Directors submitted for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on page 26 and their biographies can be found on pages 24 and 25.
J Stevenson will be subject to election at the first opportunity following his appointment and biographical details are included in the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 27 and a statement on going concern is given on page 15.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, T L Green, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, the Directors may take independent professional advice as required.
The Board normally meets once a month reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding and setting and monitoring strategy.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings.
In addition to the Board and the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees, an Executive Committee meets regularly to take the key decisions relating to the Groups development activities.
The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprised Sir George Young Chairman, S E K Purser and, until his resignation on 7 August 2003, J S McCarthy.
The Committee reviews senior appointments throughout the Group and determines the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors.
Further details of the Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 35.
Page 28 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Governance Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprised S E K Purser Chairman, Sir George Young and, until his resignation, J S McCarthy.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external and internal auditors.
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and other Directors as appropriate.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters, including the half year and annual accounts before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls that are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and on their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors.
Nomination Committee During the year a Nomination Committee was formed comprising J S McCarthy as Chairman, Sir George Young and S E K Purser.
Since the resignation of J S McCarthy the role of Chairman has been performed by K Lovelock.
The committee leads the process for Board appointments, evaluating potential candidates and making recommendations to the Board for consideration.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The operating and financial reviews on pages 5 to 15 include a detailed review of the business and future developments.
Presentations are given to the Groups institutional shareholders after the Groups preliminary announcement of the year end results and after the half year results.
In addition, the Group has established a web-site containing financial and investor information in relation to the Group.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees intend to be available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Internal Controls The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a system of internal controls, including suitable monitoring procedures, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage business risks and as such can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year, the Group has been, and will continue to be fully committed to a risk management process and operates by setting business targets within appropriate timeframes.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of the report and accounts, and includes: Business activities are governed by comprehensive guidance provided by policies and procedures, which are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Regional day-to-day control and corporate compliance is achieved by a thorough process of financial, legal and operational manual documentation for every project from planning through to completion.
This includes specific Executive Committee control and authorisation over key stages of land purchasing, construction and other key phases, as well as regular reporting and review of financial results and non-financial performance.
The development and implementation of computer information systems throughout the Group will further enhance the controlling and monitoring of projects from inception to completion.
An approved annual budget and three year rolling workflow plan is produced.
Detailed monthly reports of trading results, balance sheets and cashflows are produced.
These are subject to regular review and any unexpected variances from budgets are followed up by management.
Key financial risks are controlled through the use of clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
Business control processes are supplemented by documented annual control self-assessment reviews in each Region, as well as an ongoing process of financial and operational internal audits carried out by qualified staff.
Results of these are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the period covered by the accounts and finds that the Group has been in full compliance with provision D2.1 of the 1998 Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
