STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following definitions and terms are used throughout this Annual Report.
In addition, specific terms and definitions relating to mineral reserves and resources can be found on page 90.
Acacia or the Company Acacia Mining plc, a company incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187 Acacia Group or the Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings AGM annual general meeting AISC has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 164 Articles the articles of association of the Company Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of ores or minerals to determine the amount of valuable metals contained Au gold Average head grade average ore grade fed into the mill, expressed in grams per metric tonne Average realised gold price has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 164 per ounce sold Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings Board or Board of Directors the Board of Directors of Acacia Cash cost per ounce sold has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 164 Cash cost per tonne milled has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 165 CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, carbon and cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the gold, which is subsequently absorbed by the activated carbon whose base is usually ground coconut shells CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Code of Conduct Acacias Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales, as amended Concentrate a fine, powdery product of the milling process containing a high percentage of valuable metal Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before reduction to account for ounces not able to be recovered by the applicable metallurgical process Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in the milling process such as copper and silver CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the transfer of title to shares in uncertificatedform Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to be then fed to grinding mills or to a leach pad CSR corporate social responsibility Cu copper Cut-and-fill a method of stoping in which ore is removed in slices, or lifts, and then the excavation is filled with rock or other waste material backfill, before the subsequent slice is extracted Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit.
In an underground mine this includes shaft sinking, crosscutting, drifting and raising.
In an open pit mine, development includes the removal of overburden Directors the Directors of Acacia for the reporting period, details of whom are set out on pages 50 to 51 of this AnnualReport Disclosure and Transparency Rules the disclosure and transparency rules made by the FSA under Part VI of FSMA Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars Dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be refined to high purity metal ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 161 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as opposed to a crosscut which crosses the rockformation Drift-and-fill a method of underground mining used for flat-lying mineralisation or where ground conditions are lesscompetent Drilling: core a drilling method that uses a rotating barrel and an annular-shaped, diamond-impregnated rock-cutting bit to produce cylindrical rock cores and lift such cores to the surface, where they may be collected, examined andassayed Drilling: in-fill any method of drilling intervals between existing holes, used to provide greater geological detail and to help establish reserve estimates Drilling: reverse circulation drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit circulation within a double-walled drill pipe and produces rock chips rather than core.
Air or water is circulated down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of the drill pipe.
The chips are forced to the surface through the centre of the drill pipe and are collected, examined and assayed EBITDA has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 165 ELT or Executive Leadership Team the individuals listed on page 52 or Senior Management Executive Director s the executive director of the Company, Brad Gordon Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling and other work involved in searching for ore Financial Conduct Authority or FCA the Financial Conduct Authority of the United Kingdom Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral particles are induced to become attached to bubbles and float as others sink Free cash flow has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 165 FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, expressed as troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious metals and as a percentage for most other metals g t gram per metric tonne IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union IPO Acacias initial public offering on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange ISO International Organization for Standardisation koz thousand ounces KPIs key performance indicators Kt thousand metric tonnes LIBOR The British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Reuters screen Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Official List made in accordance with section 73A 2 of FSMA London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange plc Long-hole stoping a method of underground mining involving the drilling of holes up to 30 metres or longer into an ore bearing zone and then blasting a slice of rock which falls into an open space.
The broken rock is extracted and the resulting open chamber may or may not be filled with supporting material Majority Shareholder Barrick MDA a mineral development agreement Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving drum used for the grinding of ores in preparation for treatment Moz million ounces Mt million metric tonnes NGOs non-governmental organisations NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 162 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Non-Executive Directors the Non-Executive Directors of the Company, being as at year end Kelvin Dushnisky, Peter Tomsett, Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu, Andre Falzon, Michael Kenyon, Graham Clow, Steve Lucas, Rachel English and Stephen Galbraith Official List the Official List of the Financial ConductAuthority Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from the surface.
Also referred to as open-cut or open-cast mine Operating cash flow per share has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS measures on page 165 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic minerals, which can be mined and processed at aprofit Ore body a sufficiently large amount of ore that can be mined economically Overburden is the material that lies above the area of economic interest, such as soil and ancillary material, that is removed during surface mining Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends to make the ore more amenable to cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold will be readily dissolved oz troy ounce 31.1035g Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result of mining activity are modified to support beneficial land use.
Reclamation activity may include the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, closure of tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other mine features, and contouring, covering and re-vegetation of waste rock and other disturbed areas Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the proportion of valuable material physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated as a percentage of the material recovered compared to the total material originally present Refining the final stage of metal production in which impurities are removed from the molten metal Relationship Agreement the relationship agreement between Barrick and Acacia ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade Services Agreement the services agreement between Barrick andAcacia Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the purpose of providing access to an ore body.
Usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which lowers and raises a conveyance for handling workers andmaterials Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares Spot or spot price the purchase price of a commodity at the current price, normally at a discount to the long-term contract price Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying an ore body in preparation for mining by open-pitmethods Tailings the material that remains after all economically and technically recoverable precious metals have been removed from the ore during processing Tailings storage facility a natural or man-made confined area suitable for depositing the material that remains after the treatment of ore TANESCO Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited TRA Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRIFR total reportable injury frequency rate TZS or TSH Tanzanian shilling United Kingdom or UK the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council United States or US the United States of America, its territories and possessions, any state of the United States of America and the District of Columbia VAT value-added tax VBAs village benefit agreements VBIAs village benefit implementation agreements Voluntary Principles means the United Nations Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 163 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Non-IFRS measures All-in sustaining cost AISC Acacia has identified certain measures in this report that are not A non-IFRS financial measure.
The measure is in accordance with the measures defined under IFRS.
Non-IFRS financial measures disclosed World Gold Councils guidance issued in June 2013.
It is calculated by management are provided as additional information to investors in by taking the aggregate of cash costs, corporate administration costs, order to provide them with an alternative method for assessing Acacias reclamation and remediation costs for operating mines, corporate social financial condition and operating results.
These measures are not in responsibility expenses, mine exploration and study costs, capitalised accordance with, or a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different from or stripping and underground development costs and sustaining capital inconsistent with non-IFRS financial measures used by other companies.
This is then divided by the total ounces sold.
A reconciliation These measures are explained further below.
between cash cost per ounce sold and AISC is presented below: 1 Year ended 31 December 2015 Average realised gold price per ounce sold Acacia A non-IFRS financial measure which excludes from gold revenue: Group ongoing Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: and US$ oz sold Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi operations Export duties.
Cash cost per ounce sold 797 590 1,046 772 Corporate administration 52 48 50 48 Cash cost per ounce sold Share-based payments 2 8 A non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs include all costs absorbed into Rehabilitation 6 22 6 12 inventory, as well as royalties, by-product credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, inventory purchase CSR expenses 11 19 11 18 accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge Capitalised development 225 167 9 152 currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and amortisation and Sustaining capital 160 69 65 102 corporate social responsibility charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of Total 1,253 915 1,187 1,112 co-product revenue.
1 The Group total includes US$10 oz of unallocated corporate related costs.
The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows Acacia to 1 monitor and manage those factors that impact production costs on a Year ended 31 December 2014 monthly basis.
Acacia calculates cash costs based on its equity interest Acacia in production from its mines.
Cash costs per ounce sold are calculated Group ongoing by dividing the aggregate of these costs by gold ounces sold.
Cash costs US$ oz sold Bulyanhulu North Mara Buzwagi operations and cash cost per ounce sold are calculated on a consistent basis for Cash cost per ounce sold 812 623 791 732 the periods presented.
Corporate administration 49 37 38 46 The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total Share-based payments 3 1 1 12 cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
Rehabilitation 7 18 5 11 Year ended 31 December Mine exploration 2 2 1 1 US$000 2015 2014 CSR expenses 7 18 12 15 Total cost of sales 734,167 688,278 Capitalised development 279 149 147 188 Deduct: depreciation and amortisation 141,697 128,124 Sustaining capital 107 99 60 100 Deduct: co-product revenue 35,669 45,253 Total continuing operations 1,266 947 1,055 1,105 Total cash cost 556,801 514,901 Discontinued operations Total ounces sold 721,203 703,680 Total 1,105 Cash cost per ounce US$ oz 772 732 1 The Group total includes US$27 oz of unallocated corporate related costs.
AISC is intended to provide additional information for what the total sustaining cost for each ounce sold is, taking into account expenditure incurred in addition to direct mining costs, depreciation and sellingcosts.
164 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EBITDA Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been A non-IFRS financial measure.
Acacia calculates EBITDA as net profit calculated by excluding the following: or loss for the period excluding: Year ended 31 December Income tax expense: US$000 2015 2014 Finance expense: Net loss profit for the year 197,148 90,402 Finance income: Adjusted for: Depreciation and amortisation: and Impairment charges 146,201 Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets.
Operational review costs a including restructuring costs 9,864 13,689 b EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and Tulawaka non-operational costs 1,864 analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by c One-off legal settlements 7,300 IFRS and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for Discounting of long-term indirect tax measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA d receivables 5,906 3,648 excludes the impact of cash costs of financing activities and taxes, e fide-recognition of contingent liability 5,313 and the effects of changes in operating working capital balances, and Prior year North Mara tax positions therefore is not necessarily indicative of operating profit or cash flow recognised 12,740 from operations as determined under IFRS.
Other companies may Tax impact of the above 39,100 3,572 calculate EBITDA differently.
Adjusted net earnings 6,838 98,735 A reconciliation between net loss profit for the year and EBITDA is presented below: Adjusted net earnings per share Year ended 31 December A non-IFRS financial measure and is calculated by dividing adjusted net US$000 2015 2014 earnings by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net loss profit for the year 197,148 89,935 Plus income tax expense 72,988 25,977 Cash cost per tonne milled 1 A non-IFRS financial measure.
Cash costs include all costs absorbed into Plus depreciation and amortisation 141,697 128,124 inventory, as well as royalties, by-product credits and production taxes, Plus impairment charges 146,201 and exclude capitalised production stripping costs, inventory purchase Plus finance expense 12,617 10,081 accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge Less finance income 1,384 1,401 currency and commodity contracts, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA 174,971 252,716 and corporate social responsibility charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Cash costs per tonne milled are calculated 1 D epreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total tonnes milled.
Adjusted EBITDA Operating cash flow per share A non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by excluding one-off costs A non-IFRS financial measure, calculated by dividing net cash generated or credits relating to non-routine transactions from EBITDA.
It excludes by operating activities by the weighted average number of Ordinary other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar Shares in issue.
type, are of a nature or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
EBITDA is Free cash flow adjusted for items a to e as contained in the reconciliation to adjusted A non-IFRS measure that represents the change in cash and cash net earnings below.
EBIT Net cash A non-IFRS financial measure and it reflects EBITDA adjusted for A non-IFRS measure that is calculated by deducting total borrowings depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges.
from cash and cash equivalents.
Adjusted net earnings Cash from sustaining operations A non-IFRS financial measure.
It is calculated by excluding certain costs The cash flow generated post the spend required to sustain the or credits relating to non-routine transactions from net profit attributed Group and its operations.
It is calculated as free cash flow adjusted for to owners of the parent.
It includes other credit and charges that, expansionary capital expenditure, exploration, the cash flow associated individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature or size with one-off type items and other charges, and dividends.
that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into the underlying business performance.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 165 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Mining statistical information Employer payroll taxes The following describes certain line items used in the Acacia Groups These comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of discussion of key performance indicators: a companys capacity as an employer.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout of open pit ore and waste mined.
the year shortly after the submission of the return.
These taxes form Underground ore tonnes hoisted or trammed measures in tonnes part of our operating costs.
the total amount of underground ore mined and hoisted or trammed.
Environmental taxes Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground These comprise levies or other payments to Governments relating to ore tonnes hoisted or trammed.
Typically, these taxes tend to be payable on an Strip ratio measures the ratio of waste to ore for open pit annual basis.
These taxes are also included in our operating costs.
Indirect taxes Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material These comprise VAT and other fuel levies that arise on the purchase processed through the mill.
of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be refunded Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into by Governments.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a sales tax a mill for processing.
Refunds received are included in the Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal taxes refunded category.
physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated Stamp duty as a percentage of the metal recovered compared to the total metal This comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns made to Governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, to Governments Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data shortly after capital or assets are transferred.
This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained on page 43 of this Annual Report.
Generally, the references to Tax Taxes collected in this context mean any amount of money required to be paid to, These are taxes that a company is obliged to collect from others and pay or repaid by, aGovernment.
The main taxes that we have included in this category are: In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: Employee payroll taxes These comprise payroll and employee taxes withheld from employee Taxes borne remuneration and paid to Governments, i. e. taxes collected by Acacia These are taxes that the Acacia Group is obliged to pay to a Government and remitted to Governments on behalf of employees under arrangements on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third party and such as PAYE schemes.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected in that can cannot be recovered from a Government.
The main taxes that payroll tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and are we have included in this category are: paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year, shortly after Government royalties submission of the return.
These comprise payments made to Governments in the form of royalties.
Withholding taxes collected from suppliers Typically these tend to become payable, and are paid, in the year to These comprise taxes that are required to be withheld in advance on which they relate.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
Typically, these taxes would be reflected Corporate income tax in income tax returns made to Governments and tend to be payable, and This comprises any tax on the business calculated on the basis are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly of its profits, income or capital gains.
Typically, these taxes would after the submission of thereturn.
be reflected in corporate income tax returns made to Governments.
Taxes refunded Customs duties These are taxes that are refunded by Governments to Acacia, and mostly These comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
comprise the following: Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to Governments at the point where goods are imported and exported Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies from territories.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital Typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid incurred costs.
by Governments regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly after the submission of relevant sales tax returns.
Also included are other refunds received.
166 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
