STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES All enquiries concerning shareholdings including notification of change Electronic communications of address or dividend payments should be made to Acacias registrars, Acacia has obtained shareholders consent to send and supply Computershare Investor Services PLC, whose contact details are documents and information to shareholders in electronic form and via asfollows: Acacias website, in accordance with provisions contained in Acacias Articles of Association.
Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Increased use of electronic communications will deliver additional Bridgwater Road savings to Acacia in terms of administration, printing and postage costs, Bristol as well as speeding up the provision of information to shareholders.
BS99 6ZZ The reduced use of paper will also have environmental benefits.
United Kingdom Shareholder security Helpline number: 44 0 370 707 1895 Shareholders should be cautious of any unsolicited financial advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or any other unsolicited advice Computershare online enquiry service regarding investment matters.
More detailed information is provided Computershare provides a range of services through its online at www.
uk consumers portal, Investor Centre, which can be accessed free of charge at www.
co. uk Financial calendar Financial year end 31 December 2015 This service enables shareholders to check details of their shareholdings Preliminary results for 2015 15 February 2016 or dividends, download forms to notify changes in personal details and access other relevant information.
Annual General Meeting 21 April 2016 Quarterly results Q1 2016 21 April 2016 Payment of dividends Payment date for 2015 final dividend 27 May 2016 Details of dividends proposed in relation to the year are contained Half year report 2016 July 2016 in the Directors Report on page 85.
Shareholders may elect to receive Quarterly results Q3 2016 October 2016 payment of the 2015 final dividend and any future dividend in pounds Quarterly results Q4 2016 January 2017 sterling directly to a Bank or Building Society account.
Payments of amounts in US dollars shall be made by cheque and sent by post to shareholders registered addresses on or around 27 May 2016.
Any shareholders who elect to receive a dividend in pounds sterling but who do not provide a direct credit mandate will receive their dividend by cheque, which will be sent to shareholders registered addresses on or around 27 May 2016.
If you wish to receive the 2015 final dividend and any future dividend by direct credit and have not already made a payment election, please request a dividend mandate form from the shareholder helpline and return it to Computershare at the address above by no later than 9 May 2016.
Alternatively, direct credit mandate instructions can be updated online at www.
co. uk Currency Election forms can be returned using the pre-paid envelope provided with the materials accompanying this report.
Elections made after 9 May 2016 will be applied to subsequent dividends only.
Should you have any queries relating to the payment of dividends, please call Computershares shareholder helpline on 44 0 370 707 1895.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 167 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes forward-looking statements that express into resources or reserves, and to process its mineral reserves or imply expectations of future events or results.
Forward-looking successfully and in a timely manner, Acacias ability to complete land statements are statements that are not historical facts.
These acquisitions required to support its mining activities, operational or statements include, without limitation, financial projections and technical difficulties which may occur in the context of mining activities, estimates and their underlying assumptions, statements regarding delays and technical challenges associated with the completion of plans, objectives and expectations with respect to future production, projects, risk of trespass, theft and vandalism, changes in Acacias operations, costs, projects, and statements regarding future business strategy, including the ongoing implementation of operational performance.
Forward-looking statements are generally identified reviews, as well as risks and hazards associated with the business of by the words plans, expects, anticipates, believes, intends, mineral exploration, development, mining and production and risks and estimates and other similar expressions.
factors affecting the gold mining industry in general.
Although Acacias management believes that the expectations reflected in such forwardAll forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties looking statements are reasonable, Acacia cannot give assurances that and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Acacia, such statements will prove to be correct.
Accordingly, investors should which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially not place reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this report.
from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
Factors that could cause or contribute to Any forward-looking statements in this report only reflect information differences between the actual results, performance and achievements available at the time of preparation.
Subject to the requirements of the of Acacia include, but are not limited to, changes or developments in Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable political, economic or business conditions or national or local legislation law, Acacia explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to or regulation in countries in which Acacia conducts or may in the future update or revise any forward-looking statements in this report, whether conduct business, industry trends, competition, fluctuations in the as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in spot and forward price of gold or certain other commodity prices such this report should be construed as a profit forecast or estimate and no as copper and diesel, currency fluctuations including the US dollar, statement made should be interpreted to mean that Acacias profits or South African rand, Kenyan shilling and Tanzanian shilling exchange earnings per share for any future period will necessarily match or exceed rates, Acacias ability to successfully integrate acquisitions, Acacias the historical published profits or earnings per share of Acacia.
ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential 168 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 This report is printed on Lumi Silk paper.
Manufactured at a mill that is FSCaccredited.
Principal Colour are ISO 14001 certified, Alcohol Free and FSCChain of Custody certified.
Designed and produced by SampsonMay Telephone: 020 7403 4099 www.
com Acacia Mining plc Investor Relations Corporate Brokers Auditors th 5 Floor Giles Blackham J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd.  LLP No.
1 Cavendish Place Investor Relations Manager 25 Bank Street 1 Embankment Place London W1G 0QF Phone: 44 0 20 7129 7150 Canary Wharf London WC2N 6RH United Kingdom E-mail: gblackham@acaciamining.
com London E14 5JP United Kingdom United Kingdom Registered number: 7123187 Registrars RBC Capital Markets Computershare Investor Services PLC Thames Court The Pavilions 1 Queenhithe Bridgwater Road London EC4V 4DE Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom United Kingdom Additional information regarding Acacia can be found on our website: www.
