NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Acacia Mining plc, formerly African Barrick Gold plc the Company, Acacia or collectively with its subsidiaries the Group was incorporated on 12 January 2010 and re-registered as a public limited company on 12 March 2010 under the Companies Act 2006.
It is registered in England and Wales with registered number 7123187.
On 24 March 2010 the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, hereafter referred to as the Initial Public Offering IPO.
The address of its registered office is 5th Floor, 1 Cavendish Place, London, W1G 0QF, United Kingdom.
Barrick Gold Corporation BGC currently owns approximately 63.9% of the shares of the Company and is the ultimate parent and controlling party of the Group.
The financial statements of BGC can be obtained from www.
BGC is incorporated in Canada.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors of the Company on 8 March 2016.
The Groups primary business is the mining, processing and sale of gold.
The Group has three operating mines located in Tanzania.
The Group also has a portfolio of exploration projects located across Africa.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries and joint ventures included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity interest at Equity interest at Company Principal activity incorporation Relationship 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Acacia Mining plc Holding Company UK 100% 100% 1 BUK HoldCo Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% 1 BUK East Africa Limited Holding Company UK Subsidiary 100% 100% 1816962 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Acacia Mining Barbados Corp Ltd Group Finance Company Barbados Subsidiary 100% 100% BAPL Holding Ltd Holding Company Mauritius Subsidiary 100% 100% Acacia Exploration Kenya Ltd Exploration Kenya Subsidiary 100% 100% CayCo Tz Ltd Holding Company Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% ABG Exploration Limited Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Matinje Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Itobo Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Nyanzaga Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Barrick Tanzanian Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Barisun Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Prime Gold Exploration Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 75% 75% Kasubuya Exploration Company Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 60% 60% KMCL Holdings Ltd Exploration Cayman Islands Subsidiary 100% 100% Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% North Mara Gold Mine Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Goldfields Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Pangea Minerals Ltd Operating Gold Mine Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 1051694 Ontario Inc Holding Company Canada Subsidiary 100% 100% Acacia Mining SA Pty Ltd Shared Services South Africa Subsidiary 100% 100% East Africa Gold Mines Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% Tusker Gold Limited Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 Indago Autan Proprietary Ltd Holding Company Australia Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 IDG Aurum Tanzania Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 IDG Aurum Holdings Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 IDG Kitongo Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 Aptian Resources Tanzania Ltd Dormant Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% 2 Sub-Sahara Resources Tanzania Ltd Exploration Tanzania Subsidiary 100% 100% BUK West Africa Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% 100% ABG Exploration Mali SARL Exploration Mali Subsidiary 100% 100% African Barrick Gold Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% 100% Bulyanhulu Holdings Pty Ltd Holding Company Tanzania Subsidiary 100% BUK Burkina Faso Ltd Holding Company United Kingdom Subsidiary 100% Acacia Burkina Faso Exploration SARL Exploration Burkina Faso Subsidiary 100% Nyakafuru Project Joint Venture Exploration Tanzania Joint Venture 51% 51% 1 Exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of S448A of Companies Act 2006.
There are no restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds to the parent in the form of cash dividends or to repay loans or advances.
The joint ventures included in the table above are currently immaterial to the Group.
104 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2.
Significant accounting policies an entity uses the revaluation model.
The carrying amount of the The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these asset is restated to the revalued amount.
The amendment did not consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless IAS 24, Related party disclosures.
The standard is amended to otherwise stated.
include, as a related party, an entity that provides key management personnel services to the reporting entity or to the parent of the a Basis of preparation reporting entity the management entity.
The amendment did not The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
The amendment clarifies that adopted by the European Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee the portfolio exception in IFRS 13, which allows an entity to measure IFRS IC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 the fair value of a group of financial assets and financial liabilities on applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements a net basis, applies to all contracts including non-financial contracts are prepared on a going concern basis.
within the scope of IAS 39 or IFRS 9.
The amendment did not have The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
the historical cost convention basis, as modified by the revaluation of IFRS 3, Business combinations.
The standard is amended to clarify financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments that IFRS 3 does not apply to the accounting for the formation of any at fair value through profit or loss.
The amendment also clarifies that the scope exemption only applies in the financial statements of the The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States joint arrangement itself.
The amendment did not have a significant dollars US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand effect on the Group financial statements.
US dollars except when otherwise indicated.
Where a change in the presentational format between the prior year c New and amended standards and interpretations and current year financial statements has been made during the period, not yet adopted comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
No presentational The following standards and amendments to existing standards have changes were made in the current year.
been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on sale Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of or contribution of assets.
The IASB has issued this amendment judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates to eliminate the inconsistency between IFRS 10 and IAS 28.
The are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures on applying b New and amended standards adopted by the Group the consolidation exemption.
The amendments clarify the application The following new standards and amendments to standards are of the consolidation exemption for investment entities and their applicable and were adopted by the Group for the first time for the subsidiaries.
The amendment is not expected to have a significant financial year beginning 1 January 2015. impact on the Group.
Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based payment.
The amendment Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an clarifies the definition of a vesting condition and separately defines interest in a joint operation.
This amendment adds new guidance on performance condition and service condition.
The amendment how to account for the acquisition of an interest in a joint operation did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
The standard is not expected to have Amendment to IFRS 3, Business combinations.
The standard is a significant impact on the Group.
amended to clarify that an obligation to pay contingent consideration Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements which meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified disclosure initiative.
In December 2014 the IASB issued amendments as a financial liability or as equity, on the basis of the definitions in to clarify guidance in IAS 1 on materiality and aggregation, the IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation.
The standard is further presentation of subtotals, the structure of financial statements and amended to clarify that all non-equity contingent consideration, the disclosure of accounting policies.
The amendment is not expected both financial and non-financial, is measured at fair value at each to have a significant impact on the Group.
reporting date, with changes in fair value recognised in profit and Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, loss.
The amendment did not have a significant effect on the Group Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation.
amendment the IASB has clarified that the use of revenue based Amendment to IFRS 8, Operating segments.
The standard methods to calculate the depreciation of an asset is not appropriate is amended to require disclosure of the judgements made by because revenue generated by an activity that includes the use of management in aggregating operating segments.
The standard is an asset generally reflects factors other than the consumption of the further amended to require a reconciliation of segment assets to the economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The IASB has also clarified entitys assets when segment assets are reported.
The amendment that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
for measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied Amendment to IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
The IASB has in an intangible asset.
The amendment is not expected to have amended the basis for conclusions of IFRS 13 to clarify that it did a significant impact on the Group.
not intend to remove the ability to measure short-term receivables Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on equity and payables at invoice amounts in such cases.
In this amendment the IASB has restored the option did not have a significant effect on the Group financial statements.
to use the equity method to account for investments in subsidiaries, IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment, and IAS 38, Intangible joint ventures and associates in an entitys separate financial assets.
Both standards are amended to clarify how the gross statements.
The amendment is not expected to have a significant carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation are treated where impact on the Group.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
Discount rate: regional market issue IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
This standard The amendment to IAS 19 clarifies that market depth of high is a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts quality corporate bonds is assessed based on the currency in which with customers to achieve greater consistency in the recognition the obligation is denominated, rather than the country where the and presentation of revenue.
Revenue is recognised based on the obligation is located.
When there is no deep market for high quality satisfaction of performance obligations, which occurs when control of corporate bonds in that currency, government bond rates must be good or service transfers to a customer.
The standard is not expected used.
The amendment is not expected to have a significant impact to have a significant impact on the Group.
The IASB has d Significant judgements in applying accounting policies updated IFRS 9, Financial instruments to include guidance on and key sources of estimation uncertainty financial liabilities and fide-recognition of financial instruments.
Many of the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements The accounting and presentation for financial liabilities and for require management to make judgements and or estimates.
These fide-recognising financial instruments has been relocated from IAS 39, judgements and estimates are continuously evaluated and are based Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, without on managements experience and best knowledge of the relevant facts change, except for financial liabilities that are designated at fair and circumstances, but actual results may differ from the amounts value through profit or loss.
The standard is not expected to have included in the consolidated financial statements.
The life of mine a significant impact on the Group.
plans are central to a number of key estimates.
Information about Amendment to IFRS 9 Financial instruments, on general hedge such judgements and estimations is included in the accounting policies accounting.
The IASB has amended IFRS 9 to align hedge accounting and or notes to the consolidated financial statements, and the key more closely with an entitys risk management.
The revised standard areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement and key sources also establishes a more principles-based approach to hedge of estimation uncertainty that have the most significant effect on the accounting and addresses inconsistencies and weaknesses in the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements include: current model in IAS 39.
The transitional provisions described above are likely to change once the IASB completes all phases of IFRS 9.
Estimates of the quantities of proven and probable gold and copper The amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on reserves Note 2h the Group.
Estimates included within the life-of-mine planning such as the IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17, Leases, IFRIC 4, timing and viability of processing of long term stockpiles Note 2n Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC 15, The capitalisation of production stripping costs Note 2i Operating Leases Incentives and SIC 27, Evaluating the Substance The capitalisation of exploration and evaluation expenditures of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
The standard Notes 2l and 9 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Review of goodwill, tangible and intangible assets carrying value, IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued the determination of whether a trigger for an impairment review Operations.
This is an amendment to the changes in methods of exists, whether these assets are impaired and the measurement of disposal Assets or disposal groups are generally disposed of impairment charges or reversals Notes 2o, 2p, 2q, 2r, 20 and 21 either through sale or through distribution to owners.
The amendment The estimated fair values of cash generating units for impairment to IFRS 5 clarifies that changing from one of these disposal methods tests, including estimates of future costs to produce proven and to the other should not be considered to be a new plan of disposal, probable reserves, future commodity prices, foreign exchange rates rather it is a continuation of the original plan.
There is therefore and discount rates Notes 2r and 7 no interruption of the application of the requirements in IFRS 5.
The amendment also clarifies that changing the disposal method The estimated useful lives of tangible and long-lived assets and the does not change the date of classification.
The amendment is not measurement of depreciation expense Notes 2o and 20 expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases Notes 2o IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Applicability of the and 20 offsetting disclosures to condensed interim financial statements.
Recognition of a provision for environmental rehabilitation and the The amendment removes the phrase, and interim periods within estimation of the rehabilitation costs and timing of expenditure those annual periods from paragraph 44R, clarifying that these Notes 2u and 28 IFRS 7 disclosures are not required in the condensed interim Whether to recognise a liability for loss contingencies and the amount financial report.
However, the Board noted that IAS 34 requires of any such provision Notes 2u, 28 and 34 an entity to disclose an explanation of events and transactions Whether to recognise a provision for accounts receivable, and in that are significant to an understanding of the changes in financial particular the indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Government, position and performance of the entity since the end of the last a provision for obsolescence on consumables inventory and the annual reporting period.
Therefore, if the IFRS 7 disclosures provide impact of discounting the non-current element of the indirect tax a significant update to the information reported in the most recent receivable Notes 2n, 2y, 2w, 17, 18 and 23 annual report, the Board would expect the disclosures to be included in the entitys condensed interim financial report.
The amendment Recognition of deferred income tax assets, amounts recorded for is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
uncertain tax positions, the measurement of income tax expense and indirect taxes Notes 2y, 13 and 22 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Servicing contracts The amendment clarifies that a servicing contract that includes Determination of the cost incurred in the productive process of a fee can constitute continuing involvement in a financial asset.
ore stockpiles, gold in process, gold dor bullion and concentrate, An entity must assess the nature of the fee and arrangement against as well as the associated net realisable value and the split between the guidance for continuing involvement in paragraphs IFRS 7.
B30 and the long-term and short-term portions Notes 2n and 17 IFRS 7.42C in order to assess whether the disclosures are required.
Determination of fair value of derivative instruments Notes 2w and 31 The amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on Determination of fair value of share options and cash-settled the Group.
share-based payments Notes 2v and 25 106 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION e Basis of consolidation Where non-monetary assets are measured at fair value in a currency The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial other than US dollars they are translated into US dollars using the position as at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, and exchange rates on the date when the fair value was determined.
operating results and cash flows for the years then ended.
The The following exchange rates to the US dollar have been applied: consolidated financial statements of the Group incorporate the financial statements of the Company and companies controlled by the Company Average As at Year ended its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are entities to which the Company is 31 December 31 December exposed or has the rights to variable returns from its involvement and 2015 2015 has the ability to affect those returns through its power.
Control exists South African rand US$:ZAR 15.47 12.72 when the Company has existing rights that give the ability to direct Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 2,149 1,993 relevant activities, exposure or rights to variable returns from its Australian dollar US$:AUD 1.37 1.33 involvement and the ability to use its power to affect the amount of UK pound US$:GBP 0.68 0.65 returns.
The consolidated financial statements include all of the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Company and its Average subsidiaries after eliminating intercompany transactions as noted above.
As at Year ended 31 December 31 December Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary 2014 2014 to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
South African rand US$:ZAR 11.54 10.85 Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 1,726 1,653 from the date on which control passed to the Group, and have Australian dollar US$:AUD 1.22 1.11 been excluded from the date on which control transferred out of UK pound US$:GBP 0.64 0.61 the Group.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling interests are presented as Equity attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated h Determination of ore reserves balance sheet and Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based in the consolidated income statement, respectively.
on information compiled by Qualified Persons as defined in accordance with the Canadian Securities Administrators National Instrument f Business combinations 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects requirements.
On acquiring a business, the acquisition method of accounting is used, Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year.
Proven and whereby the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable net probable 2P reserves, and for certain mines other mineral resources, assets on the basis of fair value at the date of acquisition.
Provisional determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months amortisation and impairment charges, the assessment of life of mine of the acquisition date.
stripping ratios and for forecasting the timing of the payments related to the environmental rehabilitation provision.
When purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the initial cost of the acquisition recorded includes an estimate of the fair value In assessing the life of a mine for accounting purposes, mineral of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
resources are only taken into account where there is a high degree The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, of confidence of economic extraction.
with corresponding adjustments made to the income statement.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, When the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values of the identifiable and assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill, which significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the is reviewed for impairment annually or when there is an indication forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or of impairment.
If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, identifiable net assets exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference ultimately, result in the reserves being revised.
is recognised in the income statement.
i Stripping costs g Foreign currency translation In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South extracted economically.
The process of mining overburden and waste African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian materials is referred to as stripping.
Stripping costs incurred in order dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in to provide initial access to the ore body referred to as pre-production US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its main subsidiaries stripping are capitalised as mine development costs.
functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Stripping costs incurred during the production stage of a pit are Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar are translated accounted for as the costs of the inventory produced during the period at the exchange rates as at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets that the stripping costs were incurred, unless these costs provide a and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar are future economic benefit to an identifiable component of the ore body.
translated to US dollars at year-end exchange rates.
All differences Production phase stripping costs generate a future economic benefit that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets when the related stripping activity: i improves access to a component measured at historical cost in a currency other than US dollars are of the ore body to be mined in the future, ii increases the fair value translated using the exchange rates at the date of the initial transactions.
of the mine or pit as access to future mineral reserves becomes less costly: iii increases the productive capacity or extends the productive life of the mine or pit.
For production phase stripping costs that generate a future economic benefit, the current period stripping costs are capitalised as open pit mine development costs.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 107 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued l Exploration and evaluation Capitalised open pit mine development costs are depreciated on a units Exploration expenditures of production basis whereby the denominator is the estimated ounces Exploration expenditures relate to the initial search for mineral of recoverable gold in proven and probable reserves and the portion deposits with economic potential as well as expenditures incurred of resources considered probable of economic extraction based on the for the purposes of obtaining more information about existing mineral current life of mine plan in the components of the ore body that have deposits.
Exploration expenditures typically comprise costs that are been made more accessible through the stripping activity.
Capitalised directly attributable to: open pit mine development costs are depreciated once the open pit has researching and analysing existing exploration data: entered production and the future economic benefit is being derived.
conducting geological studies: j Revenue recognition exploratory drilling and sampling for the purposes of obtaining core Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence exists that all of the samples and the related metallurgical assay of these cores: and following criteria are met: drilling to determine the volume and grade of deposits in an area known to contain mineral resources or for the purposes of converting the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have mineral resources into proven and probable reserves.
been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually Exploration expenditures incurred at greenfield sites sites where associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold the Group does not have any mineral deposits that are already being has been retained: mined or developed are typically expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related evaluation expenditures will generate the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: a future economic benefit.
Exploration expenditures incurred at it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale brownfield sites sites that are adjacent to a mineral deposit that is will flow to the Group: and classified within proven and probable reserves and are already being the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be mined or developed are capitalised if the following criteria are met: measured reliably.
the drilling is being done in an inferred or measured and indicated Gold dor sales resource: and Gold dor is unrefined gold bullion bars usually consisting of 90% there is an existing proven and probable reserve that is contiguous gold that is refined to pure gold bullion prior to sale to our customers.
or adjacent to where the drilling is being done: and Revenue from gold dor sales is recognised at the time of sale it is probable that the resource will be converted to a proven and to a third party.
The sales price is based on the gold spot price probable reserve.
The assessment of probability is based on the following factors: Concentrate sales results from previous drill programmes: results from a geological study: Concentrate is a processing product containing the valuable ore mineral results from a mine scoping study confirming economic viability of the gold, copper and silver from which most of the waste mineral has been resource: and preliminary estimates of the volume and grade of the eliminated, that undergoes a smelting process to convert it into gold deposit, and the net cash flows expected to be generated from its bullion, copper and silver concentrate.
Under the terms of concentrate development.
Costs incurred at brownfield sites that meet the above sales contracts with independent smelting companies, gold, copper and criteria are capitalised as a component of property, plant and equipment silver in concentrate is sold at trailing monthly average spot prices based mine development costs pursuant to IAS 16, Property, Plant and on contract quotational periods.
All other drilling and related exploration costs incurred Revenue is recorded at the shipped on board date, which is also when at these sites are expensed as mine site exploration.
Exploration risks and rewards pass to the smelting companies, using market prices expenditures incurred for the purposes of determining additional on the expected date that final sales prices will be fixed.
Variations information on a mineral deposit that is classified within proven and between the price recorded at the shipment date and the actual final probable reserves or for the purposes of extending an existing mineral price set under the smelting contracts are caused by changes in market deposit that is classified within proven and probable reserves and is prices, and result in an embedded derivative in accounts receivable.
already being mined or developed are also capitalised as mine The embedded derivative is recorded at fair value each period until final development costs.
settlement occurs, with changes in fair value classified as provisional Evaluation expenditures price adjustments and included as a component of revenue.
Evaluation expenditures arise from a detailed assessment of deposits Co-products or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential Revenue from the sale of co-products, such as copper and silver, in order to determine their technical feasibility and commercial viability.
contained in dor or concentrates are recognised in revenue.
They typically include costs directly attributable to: detailed engineering studies: k Cost of sales Cost of sales consists of direct mining costs which include personnel examination and testing of extraction methods and metallurgical costs, general and administrative costs, energy costs principally diesel treatment processes: fuel and electricity, maintenance and repair costs, operating supplies, surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: external services, third-party smelting, refining and transport fees, permitting activities: and and depreciation related to sales as well as production taxes and royalty detailed economic evaluations to determine whether development expenses for the period.
Cost of sales is based on average costing for of the reserves is commercially justified, including the preparation contained or recoverable ounces sold as well as production taxes and of scoping, pre-feasibility and final feasibility studies.
royalty expense for the period.
All costs are net of any impairment to reduce inventory to its net realisable value.
108 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Evaluation expenditures incurred at greenfield and brownfield sites are Gold, copper and silver ore contained in stockpiles is measured by expensed as incurred, unless it can be demonstrated that the related estimating the number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, evaluation expenditures will generate a future economic benefit.
and the associated estimate of gold contained therein based on assay data and applying estimated metallurgical recovery rates based on Evaluation expenditures incurred at operating mines development the expected processing method.
Stockpile ore tonnages are verified projects are capitalised as a component of property, plant and by periodic surveys.
Costs are allocated to ore stockpiles based on equipment, Mining properties and development costs, respectively.
quantities of material stockpiled using current mining costs incurred Acquired exploration and evaluation properties up to the point of stockpiling the ore and include: direct labour costs: Exploration and evaluation stage properties acquired either as an materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the acquisition of individual assets or as part of a business combination are extraction of ore, including an allocation of stripping costs attributable capitalised as an intangible asset, Acquired exploration and evaluation to current period production: an allocation of mine site overhead costs: properties.
Exploration and evaluation stage properties represent and depreciation of mining properties and property, plant and equipment interests in properties that do not have mineralised material classified used in the extraction of ore, reduced by an allocation of capitalised within proven and probable reserves.
The value of such properties stripping costs.
As ore is processed, costs are removed based on is primarily driven by the nature and amount of mineralised material recoverable quantities of gold and the stockpiles average cost per unit.
contained in such properties, including value attributable to the rights Ore that is not expected to be processed in the 12 months following to explore or develop: i a property containing mineralised material the balance sheet date is classified as non-current.
classified as a measured, indicated or inferred resource: or ii a Costs capitalised in process and finished goods inventory include: prospective greenfield property with significant exploration potential.
the cost of stockpiles processed: the cost of commodities and raw Exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred on such properties materials consumed in the production process: direct labour: repair subsequent to their acquisition are expensed as incurred until the and maintenance costs: energy costs: depreciation of property, plant technical and commercial viability of developing the property has been and equipment used in the production process: and an allocation demonstrated under the same criteria described above for exploration of mine site overhead costs.
Costs are removed from finished goods and evaluation expenditures.
inventory and recorded in cost of sales based on the average cost per ounce of gold, copper and silver sold in the period.
m Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net profit for the period Cost of mine operating supplies is the purchase cost, including allocated attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average freight costs where applicable.
number of Ordinary Shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings Provisions are recorded to reduce ore stockpiles, work in process and per share reflect the potential dilution that could occur if additional finished goods inventory to net realisable value where the net realisable Ordinary Shares are assumed to be issued under securities that entitle value of the inventory is lower than its cost at each balance sheet date.
their holders to obtain Ordinary Shares in the future.
For share options, Net realisable value is determined with reference to relevant market the number of additional shares for inclusion in diluted earnings per prices less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provisions recorded share calculations is determined using the treasury share method.
also reflect an estimate of the remaining costs of completion to bring the Under this method, share options, whose exercise price is less than inventory into its saleable form.
Provisions are recorded to reduce mine the average market price of our Ordinary Shares, are assumed to be operating supplies to net realisable value, which is generally calculated exercised and the proceeds are used to repurchase Ordinary Shares by reference to its salvage or scrap value, when it is determined that the at the average market price for the period.
The incremental number supplies are slow moving and or obsolete.
Provisions are reversed to of Ordinary Shares issued under share options and repurchased from reflect subsequent recoveries in net realisable value where the inventory proceeds is included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
is still on hand at the balance sheet date.
n Inventories o Property, plant and equipment Material extracted from the Groups mines is classified as either Mineral properties and mine development costs ore or waste.
Ore represents material that, at the time of extraction, Mineral properties and mine development costs are stated at cost, is expected to be processed into a saleable form and sold at a profit.
less accumulated depreciation and applicable accumulated impairment Waste represents material that is required to be removed to access losses.
The acquisition cost of a mineral property is the estimated ore bodies.
Ore stockpiles are classified within inventory as material fair value of proven and probable reserves and measured, indicated is extracted from the open pit or underground mine.
Ore is accumulated and inferred resources acquired as a result of a business combination in stockpiles that are subsequently processed into gold in a saleable or asset acquisition.
Where the asset is acquired separately, the form under a mine plan that takes into consideration optimal scheduling cost is given the fair value of the consideration given.
Capitalised mine of production of our reserves, present plant capacity, and the market development costs include: pre-production stripping costs: production price of gold and copper.
Work in process inventory represents gold, stripping costs that result in a future economic benefit refer to Note 2i copper and silver in the processing circuit that has not completed the for capitalisation criteria for stripping costs : costs incurred to access production process, and is not yet in a saleable form.
Finished goods reserves at underground mining operations: and exploration and inventory represents gold in saleable form that has not yet been shipped.
evaluation expenditures that result in a probable future economic benefit Mine operating supplies represent commodities and other raw materials refer to Note 2l for capitalisation criteria for exploration and evaluation consumed in the production process, as well as spare parts and other expenditures.
maintenance supplies that are not classified as capital items.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with cost Development costs incurred at underground mines to build new shafts, being determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs drifts and ramps that provide physical access to the underground ore are calculated by reference to the cost of inventory at the beginning are capitalised as incurred.
These costs can be incurred throughout of the period together with the cost of inventory produced in a period.
the life of the underground mine.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued depreciation is normally calculated using the quantity of gold, copper Plant and equipment and silver extracted from the mine or pit in the period as a percentage Plant and equipment is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation of the total quantity of material expected to be extracted in current and applicable impairment losses.
Cost includes all expenditures and future periods based on estimates of recoverable proven and incurred to prepare an asset for its intended use including: the purchase probable reserves and, for some mines, mineral resources.
Such price: brokers commissions: and installation costs including architectural, non-reserve material may be included in the depreciation calculations design and engineering fees, legal fees, survey costs, site preparation where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction costs, freight charges, transportation insurance costs, duties and and the production of the non-reserve material is reflected in the life borrowing cost.
Costs that extend the productive capacity or useful economic life of an Development costs that relate to a discrete section of an ore body and asset are capitalised.
Costs incurred that do not extend the productive which only provide benefit over the life of those reserves are depreciated capacity or useful economic life of an asset are considered repairs and over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of that discrete maintenance and expensed as incurred.
Discrete sections include capitalised underground development costs or production stripping costs incurred for the purposes of providing The Group enters into leasing arrangements and arrangements that access to specific ore blocks or areas of the mine and which only provide are in substance leasing arrangements.
The determination of whether an economic benefit over the period of mining that ore block or area.
an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance Development costs incurred which benefit the entire ore body are of the arrangement at inception date, including whether the fulfilment depreciated over the recoverable proven and probable reserves of the of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or entire ore body.
assets or whether the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment after inception is only made in specific circumstances.
The expected depreciation rates of the major categories of assets are Leasing arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and asfollows: rewards of ownership of the asset to the Group are classified as 1 financeleases.
Mineral properties and development costs UOP Plant and equipment 4% 25% Finance leases are recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability Underground mobile equipment 14.3% 20% at an amount equal to the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value at the beginning of the lease term of the minimum Light vehicles and other mobile equipment 33.3% 50% lease payments over the term of the lease.
Each lease payment is Furniture, computer and office equipment 33.3% 50% allocated between the liability and finance costs using the effective interest method, whereby a constant rate of interest expense is 1 U OP indicates assets which are depreciated on the basis of units of production UOP, in this case ounces of gold, copper and silver produced in a period divided recognised on the balance of the liability outstanding.
The interest by the total recoverable reserves and resources of gold, copper and silver expected element of the lease is charged to the income statement as a finance to be mined based on the current life of mine plans.
The property, plant and equipment assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the Each assets estimated residual value and useful life is reviewed, asset and the lease term.
All other leases are classified as operating and adjusted if appropriate, on an annual basis.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in residual value and useful life is based on the physical condition and the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
life limitations of buildings, plant and equipment and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine for the Assets under construction mining property and development cost asset.
Changes to the estimated Assets in the course of construction at both our development projects residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
and operating mines are capitalised in the assets under construction account.
The cost of assets under construction comprises its purchase p Goodwill price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair condition for its intended use, at which point it is transferred to property, value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities plant and equipment and depreciation commences.
Development acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially determined based projects are recorded at cost, less applicable accumulated impairment on provisional fair values.
Fair values are finalised within 12 months of losses.
Development projects represent interests in properties that the acquisition date.
For non-wholly-owned subsidiaries, non-controlling contain proven and probable reserves and where development activities interests are initially recorded based on the minorities proportion of the are ongoing.
The cost of development projects is composed of: the fair values for the assets and liabilities recognised at acquisition.
estimated fair value of development stage assets acquired as a result of a business combination or an asset acquisition: and costs associated Goodwill that is acquired through business combinations is allocated with the construction of tangible assets, such as processing plants, to cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected permanent housing facilities and other tangible infrastructure associated to benefit from the synergies of the business combination.
Each of the with the project.
Assets under construction also contain deposits Groups CGUs that has an allocation of goodwill is also an operating on long lead items.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation segment as defined by IFRS 8.
Consequently, goodwill is tested for activities is initially included in assets under construction and impairment at the individual CGU level.
subsequently transferred to Mineral Properties.
Assets under Goodwill is not amortised: rather it is tested annually for impairment construction are not depreciated.
in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
Goodwill impairments Depreciation are not reversible.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated, net of residual value, over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if shorter on a q Intangible assets straight-line basis.
For mineral properties and mine development costs, Intangible assets acquired by way of an asset acquisition or business the economic benefits of the assets are consumed in a pattern which combination are recognised if the asset is separable or arises from is linked to the production level.
Such assets are depreciated on a unit contractual or legal rights and the fair value can be measured reliably on of production basis.
Depreciation commences when assets are available initial recognition.
On acquisition of a mineral property in the exploration for their intended use.
In applying the units of production method, stage, we prepare an estimate of the fair value attributable to the 110 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION exploration potential, including mineral resources, if any, of that property.
do not currently qualify for inclusion in proven and probable ore reserves The fair value of the exploration potential is recorded as an intangible where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
asset acquired exploration potential as at the date of acquisition.
This is consistent with the approach that a market participant would When an exploration stage property moves into development, any utilise in preparing a forecast of expected production levels.
Projected acquired exploration intangible asset balance attributable to that future revenues also reflect the Groups estimate of long-term gold property is transferred to non-depreciable mining interests within prices, which is determined based on current prices, an analysis of the property, plant and equipment.
expected total production costs of producers and forward pricing curves and forecasts of expected long-term prices prepared by research Impairment testing and the reversal of impairments are conducted analysts.
These estimates often differ from current price levels, but this in accordance with accounting policy Note 2r.
methodology is consistent with how a market participant would assess long-term gold prices.
r Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or at any time during the The estimates of future cash costs of production and capital year if an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
We review and expenditures are derived from the LOM plans for each CGU.
Costs test the carrying amounts of intangible assets when events or changes incurred in currencies other than the US dollar are translated to US in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be dollars using expected long-term exchange rates based on the relevant recoverable.
forward pricing curve for that currency.
Oil prices are a significant component, both directly and indirectly, of the expected cash costs Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if there is of production.
Estimates for long-term oil prices used in the LOM plans any indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
are based on the spot price at the time, the forward pricing curve and An impairment loss shall be recognised for a CGU if, and only if, the long-term oil price forecasts prepared by analysts.
recoverable amount of the unit is less than the carrying amount of the The discount rate applied to present value is based upon the real unit.
The impairment loss shall first be allocated to goodwill and then to weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of each asset in the unit.
of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated An impairment loss recognised in prior years for non-financial assets with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU other than goodwill shall be reversed if, and only if, there has been is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
This reversal swap spreads for the period.
is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is limited In determining FVLCD, a market multiple is applied to the NPV of each to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of any CGU.
Gold companies typically trade at a market capitalisation that depreciation, had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
After is based on a multiple of their underlying NPV.
Consequently, a market such a reversal, any depreciation charge is adjusted prospectively.
participant would generally apply an NPV multiple when estimating The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the the fair value of a gold property.
The NPV multiple utilised in the higher of value in use VIU being the net present value NPV determination of the FVLCD of a CGU considers the NPV multiples of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair observed on comparable companies.
These observed multiples value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
Impairment assessments are are primarily derived from research analyst reports and take into conducted at the level of CGUs, which is the lowest level for which consideration the following: i estimate of underlying NPV prepared by identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other the analyst: ii estimate of target market capitalisation prepared by the assets.
Each operating mine and development project represents a CGU analyst: iii market capitalisation on the date of the analyst report: and for impairment testing purposes.
An impairment loss is recognised for iv market capitalisation on the date of the impairment test.
The NPV any excess of carrying amount of a CGU over its recoverable amount.
multiple applied also takes into consideration the remaining economic life of the CGU.
For CGUs with a remaining economic life of five years or The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that less, an NPV multiple on the lower end of the observed multiple range is the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
For other CGUs, the median observed NPV multiple is utilised.
There is no active market for the Groups CGUs.
Consequently, FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future The VIU of a CGU is generally lower than its FVLCD, due primarily to cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
the inclusion of future, as yet unapproved, capital expenditure when Cost to sell is based on managements best estimates of future selling determining its FVLCD.
Consequently, the recoverable amount of a CGU costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the sale for impairment testing purposes is determined based on its FVLCD.
of a CGU are not considered significant.
s Other reserves The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived The Company did not exist until 12 January 2010, and did not become from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of the parent company for the Group until 22 February 2010 when production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM the transfer of the members of the Group pursuant to the Pre-IPO plan for each CGU, which are updated on an annual basis.
The Groups Reorganisation was completed.
As part of the IPO re-organisation in LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves and convertible 2010 a distributable reserve was created following a capital reduction.
resources and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
As such, these plans t Share capital consider the optimal level of investment, overall production levels and Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly sequence of extraction taking into account all relevant characteristics attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity of the ore body, including waste-to-ore tonnes ratios, ore grades, as a deduction from the proceeds.
haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties impacting process recoveries and capacities of available extraction, haulage and processing equipment.
Projected future revenues reflect the forecasted future production levels at each CGU as detailed in the LOM plans.
Included in these forecasts is the production of some mineral resources that ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued It is possible that managements estimates of provisions could change u Provisions as a result of changes in regulations, the extent of rehabilitation Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation required, and the means of reclamation or cost estimates.
Rehabilitation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that provisions are adjusted as a result of changes in estimates.
Those an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and adjustments are accounted for as a change in the corresponding value a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the of the related asset, except where a reduction in the provision is greater effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined than the remaining net book value of the related assets, in which case by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that the value is reduced to nil and the remaining adjustment is recognised in reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, the income statement.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is to the capitalised cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation recognised as a finance cost.
On an annual basis, the Group reviews for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Rehabilitation costs The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group v Employee benefits normally give rise to obligations for environmental rehabilitation.
The Group operates an equity-settled, share-based compensation Rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and plan the Share Option Plan, a long-term incentive plan the LTIP, dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials and site and land a legacy restricted share unit plan the Legacy RSU Plan and rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the associated costs a deferred share unit plan the DSU Plan.
are dependent on the requirements of relevant authorities and the Groups .
Share-based payments Share options Provisions for the cost of each rehabilitation programme are recognised Share options can be granted under either the Company LTIP or the at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent Share Option Plan.
The Company receives services from employees of disturbance increases over the life of an operation, the provision as consideration for equity instruments options of the Group.
The fair is increased accordingly.
The major parts of the carrying amount of value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the provisions relate to tailings pond closure rehabilitation: demolition options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: and maintenance of closed mines.
Costs included in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity expected to occur including any market performance conditions: progressively over the life of the operation and at the time of closure excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance in connection with disturbances at the reporting date.
Estimated costs vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets and included in the determination of the provision reflect the risks and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period : and probabilities of alternative estimates of cash flows required to settle excluding the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
the obligation at each particular operation.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate closure and rehabilitation activities, such as Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about waste material handling conducted as an integral part of a mining or the number of options that are expected to vest.
The total expense is production process, are not included in the provision.
Costs arising recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of from unforeseen circumstances, such as the contamination caused by the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
At the end of each unplanned discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when reporting period, the Company revises its estimates of the number of the event occurs that gives rise to an obligation and reliable estimates options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting of the required rehabilitation costs can be made.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The timing of the actual rehabilitation expenditure is dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature of the asset, the operating When the options are exercised, the Company may issue new shares licence conditions and the environment in which the mine operates.
or procure the transfer of existing shares to satisfy the exercise.
Where Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for shares are issued, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable an extended period of time depending on rehabilitation requirements.
transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share The majority of the expenditure is expected to be paid over periods premium when the options are exercised.
The grant by the Company of up to 30 years with some payments into perpetuity.
Rehabilitation of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary provisions are measured at the expected value of future cash flows, undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution.
The fair discounted to their present value using a current, market-based estimate value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant of the real risk-free pre-tax discount rates.
The unwinding of the discount date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase is included in finance expense and results in an increase in the amount to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit of the provision.
Provisions are updated each reporting period for the toequity.
effect of a change in the discount rate and the change in estimate is Long-term incentive plans added or deducted from the related asset and depreciated prospectively The Company has a cash-settled, Restricted Share Unit RSU plan for over the assets useful life.
Under the terms of the RSU plan, selected employees Significant judgements and estimates are involved in forming are granted RSUs where each RSU has a value equal to one Ordinary expectations of future activities and the amount and timing of the Share of the Company.
RSUs granted to Executive Directors and the associated cash flows.
Those expectations are formed based on existing other members of the Executive Leadership Team vest based on the environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the environmental policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
market cap-weighted TSR of a comparator group of companies over the vesting period referred to as Performance RSUs.
RSUs vest over When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, a two-and-a-half or three-year period and are settled in cash.
Additional the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part RSUs are credited to reflect dividends paid on Ordinary Shares of the of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
Company during the vesting period with a corresponding charge to the The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is recognised compensation expense.
A liability for RSUs is measured at fair value on in property, plant and equipment and depreciated accordingly.
112 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting Other entitlements period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
The estimated monetary liability for employees accrued annual At the grant date the fair value of the awards is determined from the leave entitlement at the balance sheet date is recognised as an market value of the shares at the date of award and adjusted for any expenseaccrual.
market based vesting conditions attached to the award e. g. relative TSR performance.
Changes in the fair value of the RSU liability, due to w Financial instruments changes in the price of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded Cash and cash equivalents each period, with a corresponding charge to the compensation expense.
Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents Compensation expenses recognised for RSUs incorporate an estimate include cash, and money market funds.
For the purposes of the cash for expected forfeiture rates.
The expected forfeiture is estimated based flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash on historical forfeiture rates of the Group and expectations of future equivalents as defined above.
Adjustments to compensation expense are recognised in periods where the actual forfeiture rate differs from the expected rate.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or Legacy RSU plan determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not Historically, the Barrick Group has maintained a Restricted Share Unit qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair RSU plan for selected employees who now work for the Group.
This value through profit and loss or available for sale.
These are initially plan operates in an incidental manner to the Company RSU plan.
These recognised at fair value, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost existing legacy restricted share units will continue to be administered using the effective interest method.
They are included in current assets, and accounted for based on the movement of the fair value of the Barrick except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet Ordinary Share for recording of liabilities and compensation expense.
These are classified as non-current assets, where the receivables LTIP deferred share units are discounted and held at their net present value.
Under the Deferred Share Unit DSU plan, the Non-Executive Directors Loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, other can elect to receive all or part of their annual director fees in DSUs.
Each assets and cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
DSU has the same value as one Acacia Ordinary Share.
DSUs must be retained until the Director leaves the Board, at which time the cash value A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when of the DSU is paid out.
Additional DSUs are credited to reflect dividends there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares.
A liability for DSUs is measured at amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount fair value on the grant date and is recognised on a straight-line basis of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and over the vesting period, with a corresponding charge to the Directors the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate.
At the grant date the fair value of the awards carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance is determined from the market value of the shares at the date of award.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the Changes in the fair value of the DSU liability, due to changes in the price incomestatement.
of Ordinary Shares of the Company, are recorded each period, with Derivatives a corresponding charge to the Directors compensation expense.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative Defined contribution plan contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair The Groups Tanzanian employees are members of either the National value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on Social Security Fund NSSF or the Parastatal Pension Fund PPF, whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, which are defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain a plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate derivatives as either: entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further a hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm contribution if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all commitment fair value hedge : or employees the benefits relating to the employee service in the current and prior periods.
The Group and employees both contribute 10% of b h edges of the income cost of a highly probable forecast transaction the employees gross salaries to the schemes.
The contributions are or commitment cash flow hedge : or charged to the income statement when they are due.
c hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net Termination benefits investmenthedge.
Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by The Group documents at inception of the transaction the relationship the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge to either: terminating the employment of current employees according inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal: or providing used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to their present value.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 31.
Movements in the hedging reserve Bonus plans are shown in other comprehensive income.
The full fair value of a The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where it is hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, a constructive obligation.
and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Significant accounting policies continued establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs a Fair value hedge of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the effective prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the portion is recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
facility to which it relates.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of income statement within other charges.
Changes in the fair value of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
the hedge attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and statement within finance costs.
subsequently held at amortised cost using the effective interest If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the rate method.
adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortised to profit or loss over x Finance income and finance expense the period to maturity.
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group b Cash flow hedge reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective interestincome.
portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within other charges.
Interest is recognised as a borrowing cost on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Borrowing costs that relate directly Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the to the construction of property, plant and equipment during the time that periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when it is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use are the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
to the effective portion is recognised in the income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition y Taxes of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or fixed assets, the gains The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of in equity.
In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive inventory or in depreciation in the case of property, plant and equipment.
income or directly in equity, respectively.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no Current income tax longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the to the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions incomestatement.
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax transferred to the income statement within other charges.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance c Net investment hedge sheetdate.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the purposes.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates enacted incomestatement.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income apply when the related deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary Embedded derivatives differences can be utilised.
Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly differences, except: modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction separated and accounted for as stand-alone derivatives.
that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, Financial liabilities affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the 114 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary z Royalties differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are in place at to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available each operating mine.
The primary type of royalty is a net smelter return against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward NSR royalty.
Under this type of royalty the Group pays the holder an of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied by the value of gold production at market gold prices less third-party smelting, refining where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary and transportation costs.
differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time The North Mara mine is also subject to a land royalty land tenements of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable LT based on the net revenue derived from the open pit mines.
profit or loss: and Royalty expense is recorded when revenue from the sale of gold, copper in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with and silver production is recognised.
investments in subsidiaries deferred income tax assets are The following percentages apply: recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will 1 Bulyanhulu 4% NSR be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
1 North Mara Nyabirama and Nyabigena pits 4% NSR, 1% LT The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at 1 North Mara Gokona pit and underground 4% NSR, 1.1% LT each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer 1 2 Buzwagi 4% NSR, 30% NPI probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
1 The Group agreed to a voluntary 1% increase in the NSR royalty rate in 2012.
2 T he NPI is calculated as a percentage of profits realised from the Buzwagi mine after Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each all capital, exploration and development costs and interest incurred in relation to the balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become Buzwagi mine have been recouped and all operating costs relating to the Buzwagi mine have been paid.
No amount is currently payable.
probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to berecovered.
aa Leases Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued, have been measured The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment.
Leases of using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach.
property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, lease payments.
if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current income tax assets Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes charges.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
are included in other liabilities.
The interest element of the finance Indirect tax cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to Indirect tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment the taxation authorities.
Management periodically evaluates positions acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the taken in indirect tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable useful life of the asset and the lease term.
tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions or receivables where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be bb Dividend distribution paid to or received from the tax authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively a liability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which enacted by the balance sheet date.
If the receivable is expected the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
to be received in more than 12 months from year end, the receivable is discounted and held at its present value.
Amounts expected to be payable or receivable in more than 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Discontinued operations and disposal Group assets and liabilities held for sale On 15 November 2013, Acacia announced that an agreement was reached with STAMICO, the Tanzanian State Mining Corporation, whereby STAMICO would acquire the Tulawaka Gold Mine Tulawaka and certain exploration licences surrounding Tulawaka for consideration of US$4.5 million and the grant of a 2% net smelter royalty on future production in excess of 500,000 ounces, capped at US$500,000.
On 4 February 2014, Acacia announced the completion of the sale.
STAMICO has taken ownership and management of the rehabilitation fund established as part of the closure plan for the mine, in return for the assumption of all remaining past and future closure and rehabilitation liabilities for Tulawaka, and has indemnified the other parties to the agreement in relation to these liabilities.
The transfer was completed with a net cash payment of US$11.6 million by Acacia to STAMICO for the balance of the rehabilitation fund, less the transaction consideration.
This resulted in a gain of US$4.1 million.
After non operational costs incurred in the year to 31 December 2014 and other closing adjustments, it resulted in a total cash outflow of US$5.3 million for 2014.
2014 results relating to Tulawaka have been aggregated in one line called Net profit from discontinued operations following the sale of Tulawaka in February 2014.
Below is a summary of the results of Tulawaka for the year ended 31 December: in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Results of discontinued operations: Revenue Cost of sales Gross loss Corporate administration 1 Corporate social responsibility expenses 118 Impairment charges 2 Other charges 805 Profit before net finance expense and taxation 687 Finance income 77 Finance expense 38 Profit before taxation 726 Tax credit Net profit for the year 726 Below is a summary of cash flows from discontinued operations for the year ended 31 December: in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Operating cash flows 6,300 Investing cash flows 11,612 Financing cash flows Total cash flows 5,312 1 Corporate social responsibility expenses relate to projects supported from the Acacia Maendeleo Fund.
2 I ncluded in other charges are non-operational costs incurred since the cessation of operations of US$1.9 million, foreign exchange losses of US$1.3 million, offset by the profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment to STAMICO of US$4.1 million.
116 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 4.
Segment reporting The Group has only one primary product produced in a single geographic location, being gold produced in Tanzania.
In addition the Group produces copper and silver as a co-product.
Reportable operating segments are based on the internal reports provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to evaluate segment performance, decide how to allocate resources and make other operating decisions.
After applying the aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds contained in IFRS 8, the Groups reportable operating segments were determined to be: North Mara gold mine: Bulyanhulu gold mine: Buzwagi gold mine: and a separate Corporate and Exploration segment, which primarily consists of costs related to other charges and corporate social responsibility expenses as well as discontinued operations Tulawaka gold mine.
Segment results and carrying values include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment carrying values are disclosed and calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets.
Segment liabilities are not reported since they are not considered by the CODM as material to segment performance.
Capital expenditures comprise additions to property, plant and equipment.
The Group has also included segment cash costs per ounce sold and all-in sustaining cost per ounce sold non-IFRS financial performance measures.
Segment information for the reportable operating segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 is set out below.
Consequently, the Group has reported these costs in this manner.
2 These are non-IFRS financial performance measures with no standard meaning under IFRS.
Refer to Non IFRS measures on page 164 for definitions.
3 S egment carrying values are calculated as shareholders equity after adding back debt and inter-company liabilities, and subtracting cash and inter-company assets and include outside shareholders interest.
4 Represents Tulawaka which has been discontinued.
5 Depreciation and amortisation includes the depreciation component of the cost of inventory sold.
118 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 5.
Revenue For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Gold dor sales 567,478 602,173 Gold concentrate sales 264,984 282,822 Copper concentrate sales 31,028 40,507 Silver sales 4,641 4,746 Total 868,131 930,248 1 Concentrate sales includes negative provisional price adjustments to the accounts receivable balance due to changes in market gold, silver and copper prices prior to final settlement as follows: US$4.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2015 US$5.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2014.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 2 Revenue by location of customer Europe Switzerland 30,676 Germany 78,553 104,981 Belgium 486 Asia India 538,543 603,807 China 136,439 134,844 Japan 83,434 86,616 Total revenue 868,131 930,248 2 Revenue by location of customer is determined based on the country to which the gold is delivered.
Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2015 are sales to seven major customers.
Revenues of approximately US$604 million 2014: US$625 million arose from sales to four of the Groups largest customers.
Cost of sales For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Direct mining costs 520,943 493,933 Third-party smelting costs 21,110 24,937 1 Depreciation 141,697 128,124 Realised losses on economic hedges 12,358 Royalty expense 38,059 41,284 2 Total 734,167 688,278 1 Depreciation includes the depreciation component relating to the cost of inventory sold.
2 Cost of sales less depreciation equals cash operating costs.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Impairment charges In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 38 Intangible Assets a review for impairment of goodwill is undertaken annually, or at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist, and in accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment a review for impairment of long-lived assets is undertaken at any time an indicator of impairment is considered to exist.
During 2015, we have seen continued pressure on the price of gold driven by a number of market factors.
Volatility of the gold price continued to be prevalent, and gold traded in a range from US$1,182 per ounce on 31 December 2014 to US$1,061 per ounce on 31 December 2015.
The shift in the gold price has required us to reassess our price assumptions for life of mine planning to realign to the current market conditions.
For life of mine planning purposes, the gold price assumption for 2016 was lowered to US$1,100 per ounce, US$1,150 for 2017, and a longer-term view from 2017 onwards of US$1,200 per ounce for Bulyanhulu and North Mara.
For Buzwagi, in light of its short life of mine, the current spot price has a heavier weighting on a likely achieved price, and for this reason we have used a flat spot price of US$1,100 per ounce for the remaining life of mine.
This reduction in the gold price assumption, in combination with the resultant impact on reserve and resource estimations, represents an impairment trigger in our view, and as a result, we have performed impairment testing on all three operating sites in order to ensure that the recoverable value calculated exceeds the carrying values as presented.
The review compared the recoverable amount of assets for the cash generating units CGU to the carrying value of the CGUs including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of an asset is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use VIU, being the net present value NPV of future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, and fair value less costs to dispose FVLCD.
The FVLCD of a CGU is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
Consequently, FVLCD is derived using discounted cash flow techniques NPV of expected future cash flows of a CGU, which incorporate market participant assumptions.
Cost to dispose is based on managements best estimates of future selling costs at the time of calculating FVLCD.
Costs attributable to the disposal of a CGU are not considered significant.
The expected future cash flows utilised in the NPV model are derived from estimates of projected future revenues, future cash costs of production and capital expenditures contained in the life of mine LOM plan for each CGU.
The Groups LOM plans reflect proven and probable reserves, assume limited resource conversion, and are based on detailed research, analysis and modelling to optimise the internal rate of return for each CGU.
The discount rate applied to calculate the present value is based upon the real weighted average cost of capital applicable to the CGU.
The discount rate reflects equity risk premiums over the risk-free rate, the impact of the remaining economic life of the CGU and the risks associated with the relevant cash flows based on the country in which the CGU is located.
These risk adjustments are based on observed equity risk premiums, historical country risk premiums and average credit default swap spreads for the period.
The key economic assumptions used in the reviews during 2015 and 2014 were: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Gold price per ounce 2016 US$1,100 US$1,200 Gold price per ounce 2017 US$1,150 US$1,300 Gold price per ounce Long-term US$1,200 US$1,300 Gold price per ounce Buzwagi US$1,100 US$1,300 South African rand US$:ZAR 12.50 11.00 Tanzanian shilling US$:TZS 2,100 1,700 Long-term oil price per barrel 2016 US$50 US$100 Long-term oil price per barrel 2017 US$65 US$100 Long-term oil price per barrel Long-term US$75 US$100 Discount rate 5% 5% NPV multiples 1.00 1.00 At Bulyanhulu and North Mara, the impairment review did not indicate a need for impairment because the recoverable amount was calculated as higher than the carrying values.
At Buzwagi, the recoverable amount calculated was US$188.7 million lower than the carrying value.
In conjunction with the recoverable value review, we have also reviewed anticipated future use of supplies in light of the short life of mine and a review of classification of critical spares, resulting in a portion of the impairment allocated to supplies.
As there is no goodwill relating to Buzwagi, the impairment loss was allocated as below: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Gross impairment charge Comprising: Impairment of non-current inventory 69,042 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 37,500 Impairment of supplies inventory 39,659 Gross impairment charge, before tax 146,201 Deferred tax assets 42,478 Total impairment charge 188,679 120 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION For purposes of testing for impairment of long-lived assets, we have assessed whether a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions used to estimate the recoverable value for CGUs would result in an additional impairment charge.
Managements view is that the recoverable values are most sensitive to changes in the assumptions around gold prices and discount rates, and also sensitive to changes in the copper price.
As a result, sensitivity calculations were performed for these for each of the CGUs.
The sensitivity analysis is based on a decrease in the long-term gold price of US$100 per ounce, i. e. US$1,100 per ounce for North Mara and Bulyanhulu, and US$1,000 per ounce for Buzwagi, an increase in the discount rate of 1%, in isolation, and a decrease in copper prices to US$2.00 per pound, in isolation.
Buzwagi Any decrease in gold price will result in additional impairment at Buzwagi.
A decrease in the Buzwagi gold price of US$100 would result in an additional impairment expense of US$46 million.
An increase of 1% in the discount rate in isolation will have an immaterial impact on the recoverable value due to the short remaining life of the operation.
A decrease in long-term copper price to US$2.00 per pound in isolation will not have a material impact on the recoverable amount.
North Mara and Bulyanhulu In isolation, none of the reasonably possible changes set out above would result in an impairment.
Employee benefits For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Wages and salaries 84,809 100,181 Pension and social security costs 8,946 10,285 1 Other employee benefits 58,429 68,868 2 Share-based compensation charge 6,389 8,613 Total 158,573 187,947 1 Other employee benefits include bonuses, leave pay, pensions, medical expenses, severance costs US$9.8 million and other benefits.
2 S hare-based compensation charges include costs incorporated in corporate administration, cost of sales and other charges as applicable to the relevant employees.
Further details of the Groups share options and other share-based compensation plans are provided in Note 25.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December Average number of employees per month 2015 2014 Operations 3,810 4,262 Exploration 70 76 Administration 198 215 Total average headcount 4,078 4,553 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Exploration and evaluation costs The following represents a summary of exploration and evaluation expenditures incurred at each mine site and significant exploration targets if applicable.
For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Expensed during the year: North Mara 389 478 Buzwagi 64 148 Bulyanhulu 4,354 7,595 Kenya 8,248 5,554 1 Other 6,682 4,509 Total expensed 19,737 18,284 Capitalised during the year: North Mara 965 1,957 Bulyanhulu 204 Total capitalised 965 2,161 Total 20,702 20,445 1 I ncluded in other are the exploration activities conducted through ABG Exploration Limited and in West Africa for the South Hound Project.
All primary greenfield exploration and evaluation activities are conducted in these companies.
Other charges For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Other expenses Operational Review costs including restructuring cost 9,864 13,689 Unrealised non-hedge derivative losses 13,621 Foreign exchange losses 23,130 13,516 Bad debt expense 326 Disallowed indirect taxes 1,846 710 Legal costs 2,502 6,710 One off legal settlements 7,300 Government levies and charges 256 1,626 Project development costs 233 1,196 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 89 Other 3,299 86 Total 48,430 51,569 Other income Bad debts recovered 465 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 5,906 3,648 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,315 Unrealised non-hedge derivative gains 2,293 fide-recognition of finance lease liabilities 3,918 fide-recognition of deferred consideration 5,313 Proceeds from earn-in agreement 1,000 Other 141 Total 20,351 3,648 Total other charges 28,079 47,921 122 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 11.
Auditors remuneration During the year the Group including its subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditors: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 501 562 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 372 426 Audit-related assurance services 265 269 Tax compliance services 100 125 Other taxation services 128 104 Corporate finance related services 404 Other services 4 8 Total 1,370 1,898 12.
Finance income and finance expenses a Finance income For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Interest on time deposits 910 868 Other 474 456 Total 1,384 1,324 b Finance expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 1 Unwinding of discount 3,651 4,697 2 Revolving credit facility charges 2,192 2,447 Interest on CIL facility 5,106 3,925 Interest on finance leases 408 439 Bank charges 516 606 Other 744 862 12,617 12,976 3 Capitalised during the year 2,933 Total 12,617 10,043 1 The unwinding of discount is calculated on the environmental rehabilitation provision.
2 Included in credit facility charges are the amortisation of the fees related to the revolving credit facility as well as the monthly interest and facility fees.
3 I nterest incurred on the CIL borrowings as well as hedging losses on the interest rate swaps were capitalised as an asset until the CIL plant was commissioned at the beginning of Q4 2014 and have since been expensed.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Tax expense For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Current tax: Current tax on profits for the year Adjustments in respect of prior years Total current tax Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 72,988 25,977 Total deferred tax 72,988 25,977 Income tax expense 72,988 25,977 The tax on the Groups loss profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the profits of the consolidated entities as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Loss profit before tax 124,160 115,186 Tax calculated at domestic tax rates applicable to profits in the respective countries 35,932 41,544 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 676 438 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 21,140 1 Adjustments to unrecognised tax benefits carried forward 12,740 2 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 88,702 8,039 Prior year adjustments 6,802 2,904 Tax charge 72,988 25,977 1 T he 2015 reconciliation includes an amount of US$12.7 million relating to an increase in the amount of unrecognised tax benefits carried forward.
The adjustment reflects uncertainty regarding recoverability of certain tax losses, and gives rise to an increased deferred tax charge.
2 Included is the tax impact of US$42.5 million of deferred tax assets fide-recognised at Buzwagi following the impairment review.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of the corporate tax return, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of tax periods remain open to review by tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
Loss earnings per share Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net loss profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has dilutive potential Ordinary Shares in the form of share options.
The weighted average number of shares is adjusted for the number of shares granted assuming the exercise of share options.
At 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Loss earnings Net loss profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 197,148 89,209 Net profit from discontinued operations attributable to owners of the parent 1,193 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 410,085,499 410,085,499 Adjusted for dilutive effect of share options 258,139 218,126 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 410,343,638 410,303,625 For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Loss earnings per share Basic and dilutive loss earnings per share from continuing operations cents 48.1 21.8 Basic and dilutive earnings per share from discontinued operations cents 0.3 Basic and dilutive loss earnings per share cents 48.1 22.1 124 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15. Dividend The final dividend declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 of US$11.5 million US2.8 cents per share and the 2015 interim dividend of US$5.7 million US1.4 cents per share were paid during 2015 and recognised in the financial statements.
Refer to Note 37 for details of the final dividend declared subsequent to year end.
Cash flow other items a Operating cash flows other items Adjustments for working capital items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Trade receivables 20,626 11,405 1 Inventories 28,106 29,167 2 Other current assets 16,025 31,656 3 Other liabilities 4,299 7,593 4 Trade and other payables 8,448 22,716 5 Other working capital items 5,984 1,243 Total 4,774 20,150 1 T he inventory adjustment includes the movement in current as well as the non-current portion of inventory and has been adjusted for the non-cash impairment impact.
2 D uring 2012 the Tanzanian Government abolished the VAT relief practice resulting in a build-up in VAT receivables from the Government in 2013.
VAT refunds received in 2015 amounted to US$86 million.
3 The other liabilities adjustment includes the movement in both other current and other non-current liabilities.
4 T he trade and other payables adjustment excludes statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
5 O ther working capital items include exchange losses associated with working capital, as well as cash movements on derivative financial instruments.
Other non-cash items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Adjustments for non-cash income statement items: Foreign exchange losses 19,789 12,658 Discounting of indirect tax receivables 5,906 3,648 Provisions added 2,259 Provisions settled 2,445 531 Unrealised gains losses on derivatives 2,293 15,284 Share option expense reversal 182 284 fide-recognition of deferred consideration 5,313 Other non-cash items 3,858 1,257 Exchange loss on revaluation of cash balances 3,341 1,993 Total 3,497 28,988 b Investing cash flows other items For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Proceeds on sale of property, plant and equipment 3,662 93 Other long-term receivables 151 237 Village housing receivable 4 Rehabilitation expenditure 557 399 Total 3,256 65 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 17.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Ore in stockpiles 17,487 22,040 1 Mine operating supplies 155,883 200,715 Gold in process 14,622 24,784 Finished products: Gold dor bullion 4,567 6,940 Gold, copper and silver concentrate 9,762 11,047 Total current portion of inventory 202,321 265,526 2 Non-current ore in stockpiles 72,616 90,006 Total 274,937 355,532 1 During t he year an impairment of supplies balances was recognised at Buzwagi US$39.7 million.
2 D uring 2015 US$72.6 million 2014: US$90.0 million of ore at Buzwagi and North Mara was classified as long-term following managements assessment that these stockpiles will be processed after 2016.
An impairment of non-current ore stockpiles was recognised at Buzwagi US$69.0 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the cost of sales amount to US$138.8 million 2014: US$155.1 million.
Trade and other receivables and other current assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Trade and other receivables: 1 Amounts due from dor and concentrate sales 5,435 26,202 2 Other receivables 9,940 10,270 Due from related parties 116 38 Less: Provision for doubtful debt on other receivables 1,128 1,521 Total 14,363 34,989 1 A n additional discounting agreement was concluded in June 2015 with a financial institution which gives the Group the option to factor certain concentrate receivables in order to further reduce the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk and to reduce the Groups investment in trade receivables.
Under this agreement, concentrate receivables are advanced by the financial institution in exchange for a discount fee of 200 basis points per annum for the discount period.
The financial institution has no recourse against the Group for changes in pricing from the time it was advanced.
As at 31 December 2015, receivables to the approximate value of US$37 million 2014: Nil were advanced under this agreement.
2 Other receivables relates to employee and supplier backcharge-related receivables and refundable deposits.
Trade receivables other than concentrate receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90-day terms.
Concentrate receivables are generally on 60-120-day terms depending on the terms per contract.
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
The carrying value of trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Other current assets: 3 Current portion of indirect tax receivables 57,557 45,896 4 Other receivables and advance payments 21,006 29,926 Total 78,563 75,822 3 T he total indirect tax receivable is US$110.2 million 2014: US$108.1 million of which US$52.7 million 2014: US$62.2 million is included in non-current assets.
This receivable is due from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority and it is anticipated to be offset against future corporate tax payments.
To reflect the time value of money the long-term portion of this receivable has been discounted at a rate of 5% 2014: 5%.
4 O ther receivables and advance payments relate to prepayments for insurance and income taxes offset against outstanding refunds for VAT and fuel levies and current amounts receivable from the NSSF of US$5.1 million 2014: US$5.5 million.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Cash at bank and on hand 121,893 149,869 Money market funds 111,375 143,981 Total 233,268 293,850 126 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 20.
Property, plant and equipment Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2015 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2015, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 Additions 177,168 177,168 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 31,936 31,936 Foreign currency translation adjustments 4,149 4,149 Disposals write-downs 4,820 4,820 2 Impairments 18,571 18,929 37,500 Depreciation 78,105 55,260 133,365 Transfers between categories 107,953 124,969 232,922 At 31 December 2015 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 At 1 January 2015 Cost 1,750,743 1,511,444 143,934 3,406,121 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,180,174 800,632 1,980,806 Net carrying amount 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 At 31 December 2015 Cost 1,845,234 1,636,413 56,244 3,537,891 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,272,357 874,821 2,147,178 Net carrying amount 572,877 761,592 56,244 1,390,713 Mineral properties and mine For the year ended 31 December 2014 Plant and development Assets under in thousands of United States dollars equipment costs construction Total At 1 January 2014, net of accumulated depreciation and impairment 392,644 651,763 236,264 1,280,671 Additions 253,802 253,802 Non-cash reclamation asset adjustments 21,013 21,013 Foreign currency translation adjustments 5,876 5,876 Disposals write-downs 182 182 Depreciation 55,411 68,702 124,113 Transfers between categories 239,394 127,751 367,145 At 31 December 2014 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 At 1 January 2014 Cost 1,518,500 1,383,693 236,264 3,138,457 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,125,856 731,930 1,857,786 Net carrying amount 392,644 651,763 236,264 1,280,671 At 31 December 2014 Cost 1,750,743 1,511,444 143,934 3,406,121 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1,180,174 800,632 1,980,806 Net carrying amount 570,569 710,812 143,934 1,425,315 1 A ssets under construction represents a sustaining capital expenditures incurred constructing property, plant and equipment related to operating mines and advance deposits made towards the purchase of property, plant and equipment: and b expansionary expenditure allocated to a project on a business combination or asset acquisition, and the subsequent costs incurred to develop the mine.
Once these assets are ready for their intended use, the balance is transferred to plant and equipment, and or mineral properties and mine development costs.
2 The impairment in 2015 relates to property, plant and equipment at Buzwagi.
Refer to Note 7 for further details.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leases Property, plant and equipment includes assets relating to the design and construction costs of power transmission lines and related infrastructure.
At completion, ownership was transferred to TANESCO in exchange for amortised repayment in the form of reduced electricity supply charges.
No future lease payment obligations are payable under these finance leases.
Property, plant and equipment for 2014 included emergency back-up and spinning power generators leased at Buzwagi mine under a three-year lease agreement, with an option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term.
The leases were classified as finance leases.
In 2015 the option to purchase was not exercised, but a new operating lease arrangement was entered into.
Property, plant and equipment also includes five drill rigs purchased under short-term finance leases.
The following amounts were included in property, plant and equipment where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Cost capitalised finance leases 51,617 70,764 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 37,952 53,246 Net carrying amount 13,665 17,518 21.
Goodwill and intangible assets Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2015 evaluation 1 in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2015 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2015 Cost 401,250 107,842 509,092 Accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 Net carrying amount 127,898 83,292 211,190 Acquired exploration and For the year ended 31 December 2014 evaluation 1 in thousands of United States dollars Goodwill properties Total At 1 January, net of accumulated impairment 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2014 127,898 83,292 211,190 At 31 December 2014 Cost 401,250 107,842 509,092 Accumulated impairment 273,352 24,550 297,902 Net carrying amount 127,898 83,292 211,190 1 E xploration and evaluation assets classified as intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
128 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Goodwill and accumulated impairment losses by operating segments: For the year ended 31 December 2015 in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu Other Total At 1 January 2015 121,546 6,352 127,898 At 31 December 2015 121,546 6,352 127,898 Cost 237,524 121,546 42,180 401,250 Accumulated impairments 237,524 35,828 273,352 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Discontinued in thousands of United States dollars North Mara Bulyanhulu operations Other Total At 1 January 2014 121,546 6,352 127,898 At 31 December 2014 121,546 6,352 127,898 Cost 237,524 121,546 13,805 28,375 401,250 Accumulated impairments 237,524 13,805 22,023 273,352 22.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Tax losses 520,591 397,153 Total 520,591 397,153 The above tax losses which translate into deferred tax assets of approximately US$149 million 2014: US$111 million have not been recognised in respect of these items due to uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, or there being uncertainty regarding future taxable income against which these assets can be utilised.
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Balance sheet classification Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Property, plant and equipment 380,264 357,071 380,264 357,071 Provisions 5,144 10,663 5,144 10,663 Interest deferrals 63 23,129 522 341 459 22,788 Tusker acquisition 6,478 6,668 6,478 6,668 Kenya acquisition 2,880 2,880 Tax loss carry-forwards 298,017 322,116 298,017 322,116 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 303,224 355,908 387,264 366,960 84,040 11,052 Legal entities Assets Liabilities Net in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 North Mara Gold Mine Ltd 69,662 30,897 69,662 30,897 Bulyanhulu Gold Mine Ltd 19,528 21,323 19,528 21,323 Pangea Minerals Ltd 11,447 48,066 11,447 48,066 Other 181 2,786 6,478 9,684 6,297 6,898 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 11,628 50,852 95,668 61,904 84,040 11,052 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Uncertainties regarding availability of tax losses, in respect of enquiries raised and additional tax assessments issued by the TRA, have been measured using the single best estimate of likely outcome approach resulting in the recognition of substantially all the related deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Alternative acceptable measurement policies e. g. on a weighted average expected outcome basis could result in a change to deferred tax assets and liabilities being recognised, and the deferred tax charge in the income statement.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to US$391 million 2014: US$325 million.
Other assets As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 1 Amounts due from Government 12,078 17,055 Operating lease prepayments TANESCO powerlines 1,261 2,131 2 Prepayments Acquisition of rights over leasehold land 48,419 50,901 3 Non-current portion of indirect tax receivable 52,671 62,247 Village housing 253 253 Deferred finance charges 282 433 Total 114,964 133,020 1 I ncluded in this amount are amounts receivable from the Tanzanian Social Security Fund of US$5.3 million 2014: US$6.6 million as well as amounts due from TANESCO of US$2.7 million 2014: US$6.3 million.
2 Prepayment made to the landowners in respect of acquisition of the rights over the use of leasehold land.
3 T he non-current portion of the indirect tax receivables has been discounted to its current value using a discount rate of 5% 2014: 5%.
This resulted in a discounting credit of US$5.9 million 2014: US$3.6 million to the income statement, refer to Note 10.
No share movements have taken place in the current year.
Share-based compensation a Share options Share options are granted to Executive Directors and to selected employees.
The exercise price of the granted options is determined by the Compensation Committee before the grant of an option provided that this price cannot be less than the average of the middle-market quotation of such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
All options outstanding at the end of the year expire between April 2017 and August 2020.
1,181,459 of the options granted were exercisable at 31 December 2015.
The vesting period of the options is four years, with an exercise period of seven years from the date of grant.
Movements in the number of options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are reflected in pence as follows: 2015 2014 Average Average exercise price exercise price in pence in pence For the year ended 31 December per share Options per share Options At 1 January 332 1,602,113 373 2,027,206 Granted Forfeited 524 402,703 Expired 551 22,390 At 31 December 332 1,602,113 332 1,602,113 No equity-settled share options were granted during the year.
130 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION b LTIP Restricted Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are RSUs with a fair value of US$2.2 million as at 31 December 2015 2014: US$1.9 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars RSUs US$000 At 1 January 2014 1,798,573 824 Settled for cash 70,831 244 Forfeited 412,056 535 Granted 69,016 14 Credits for dividends 14,032 16 Change in value 1,788 At 31 December 2014 1,398,734 1,863 Settled for cash 187,282 629 Forfeited 430,938 Granted 1,254,185 656 Credits for dividends 20,580 23 Change in value 318 At 31 December 2015 2,055,279 2,231 c LTIP Performance Restricted Share Units PRSUs Included in other non-current liabilities are PRSUs with a fair value of US$11.8 million as at 31 December 2015 2014: US$7.9 million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars PRSUs US$000 At 1 January 2014 3,383,224 1,822 Forfeited 134,081 209 Settled for cash 120,934 285 Credits for dividends 35,391 46 Change in value 6,544 At 31 December 2014 3,163,600 7,918 Forfeited 731,441 Settled for cash 304,853 1,530 Granted 1,845,938 Credits for dividends 38,995 62 Change in value 5,361 At 31 December 2015 4,012,239 11,811 d LTIP Deferred Share Units Included in other non-current liabilities are DSUs with a fair value of US$0.7 million as at 31 December 2015 2014: US$0.7million.
Number of Fair value in thousands of United States dollars DSUs US$000 At 1 January 2014 209,056 213 Granted 107,326 131 Credits for dividends 4,269 6 Settled for cash 11,742 41 Change in value 369 At 31 December 2014 308,909 678 Granted 34,211 50 Credits for dividends 3,239 6 Settled for cash 20,000 92 Change in value 75 At 31 December 2015 326,359 717 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Trade payables 83,236 84,023 Accrued expenses 46,731 54,444 Payroll-related payables 14,582 18,922 Contract retentions 2 2 Royalty payable 1,595 1,662 Trade payables to related parties 13,720 15,201 Total 159,866 174,254 Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Terms and conditions of the above payables liabilities: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 30-day of statement terms Accruals and other payables are non-interest bearing and have an average term of 3060 days 27.
Borrowings During 2013, a US$142 million facility the Facility was put in place to fund the bulk of the costs of the construction of one of Acacias key growth projects, the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project the Project.
The Facility is collateralised by the Project, has a term of seven years with a spread over LIBOR of 250 basis points.
The interest rate has been fixed at 3.6% through the use of an interest rate swap.
The seven-year Facility is repayable in equal instalments over the term of the Facility, after a two-year repayment holiday period.
The full facility of US$142 million was drawn at the end of 2013.
The first principal payment of US$14.2 million was paid in H2, 2015 and at the end of 2015 the balance owing was US$127.8 million.
Interest accrued to the value of US$0.7 million was included in accounts payable at year end.
Interest incurred on the borrowings as well as hedging losses on the interest rate swap for the year ended 31 December 2015 was US$5.1 million.
This expenditure arises at different times over the life of mine for the different mine sites and is expected to be utilised in terms of cash outflows between years 2016 and 2054 and beyond, varying from mine site to mine site.
2 O ther provisions relate to provisions for legal and tax-related liabilities where the outcome is not yet certain but it is expected that it will lead to a probable outflow of economic benefits in future.
3 T owards the end of 2015 reclamation guarantees for the mine sites were discussed with the Ministry of Energy and Minerals including the required rehabilitation activity.
These discussions, in conjunction with the annual review of closure estimates and closure planning, have resulted in a re-estimation of the basis and assumptions for cost estimates and periods of closure needed.
The change in estimate recorded in 2015 mainly relates to a reduction in cost estimated around post-closure activities, combined with changes in the mine plans, mining approach and scheduling which had a positive impact on rehabilitation in future.
132 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Rehabilitation obligations arise from the acquisition, development, construction and normal operation of mining property, plant and equipment, due to Government controls and regulations that protect the environment on the closure and reclamation of mining properties.
The major parts of the carrying amount of the obligation relate to tailings and waste rock dump closure rehabilitation: surface contouring: demolition of buildings mine facilities: ongoing water treatment: and ongoing care and maintenance of closed mines.
The fair values of rehabilitation provisions are measured by discounting the expected cash flows using a discount factor that reflects the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of interest.
Acacia prepares estimates of the timing and amount of expected cash flows when an obligation is incurred and updates expected cash flows to reflect changes in facts and circumstances.
The principal factors that can cause expected cash flows to change are: the construction of new processing facilities: changes in the quantities of material in reserves and a corresponding change in the life of mine plan: changing ore characteristics that impact required environmental protection measures and related costs: changes in water quality that impact the extent of water treatment required: and changes in laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Each year Acacia assesses cost estimates and other assumptions used in the valuation of the rehabilitation provision at each mineral property to reflect events, changes in circumstances and new information available.
Changes in these cost estimates and assumptions are recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the corresponding asset.
Rehabilitation provisions are adjusted to reflect the passage of time accretion calculated by applying the discount factor implicit in the initial fair-value measurement to the beginning-of-period carrying amount of the provision.
Settlement gains losses will be recorded in other income expense.
Other environmental remediation costs that are not rehabilitation provisions are expensed as incurred.
Other liabilities As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Finance lease liabilities 5,841 Employee benefit share-based liabilities 14,758 10,459 Other 3,473 8,784 Total 18,231 25,084 Current portion 14,109 7,719 Non-current portion 4,122 17,365 Finance lease liabilities are capitalised at an effective interest rate of 5% per annum.
The lease terms are three and four years, with purchase options at the end of the term.
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
As at As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: No later than 1 year 5,841 Between 1 and 3 years 5,841 Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease liabilities 5,841 As at As at 31 December 31 December Present value of finance lease liabilities 2015 2014 No later than 1 year 5,841 Between 1 and 3 years Present value of finance lease liabilities 5,841 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial assets and liabilities a Financial assets Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 233,268 293,850 233,268 293,850 Trade and other receivables 14,363 34,989 14,363 34,989 Derivative financial instruments 849 2,846 849 2,846 1 Total other assets excluding prepayments 132,574 143,351 132,574 143,351 Total financial assets 381,054 475,036 381,054 475,036 Less: Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 233,268 293,850 233,268 293,850 Trade and other receivables 14,363 34,989 14,363 34,989 Derivative financial instruments 1,040 1,040 Other current assets excluding prepayments 71,258 69,570 71,258 69,570 Total other non-current financial assets 62,165 75,587 62,165 75,587 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
The fair value of financial assets, excluding other assets, equals their carrying amount as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Included in other assets are indirect tax receivables from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority, which have been discounted to their present value: refer to Note 23.
As at 31 December 2015 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 233,268 233,268 Trade and other receivables 14,363 14,363 Derivative financial instruments 849 849 Other assets excluding prepayments 132,574 132,574 Total financial assets 380,205 849 381,054 As at 31 December 2014 Assets at fair Derivatives Loans and value through used for in thousands of United States dollars receivables profit and loss hedging Total Assets as per balance sheet: Cash and cash equivalents 293,850 293,850 Trade and other receivables 34,989 34,989 Derivative financial instruments 1,040 1,806 2,846 Other assets excluding prepayments 143,351 143,351 Total financial assets 472,190 1,040 1,806 475,036 b Financial liabilities Carrying value as at 31 December Fair value as at 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 2015 2014 Derivative financial instruments 12,480 17,808 12,480 17,808 Trade and other payables 159,866 174,254 159,866 174,254 Other liabilities 18,231 25,084 18,231 25,084 Borrowings 127,800 142,000 127,800 142,000 Total 318,377 359,146 318,377 359,146 Less: Current financial assets Derivative financial instruments 10,920 13,729 10,920 13,729 Trade and other payables 159,866 174,254 159,866 174,254 Other current liabilities 14,109 7,719 14,109 7,719 Borrowings 28,400 14,200 28,400 14,200 Total non-current portion of financial liabilities 105,082 149,244 105,082 149,244 134 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other liabilities relate to cash-settled share-based plans and their valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
Also included in other liabilities are the finance lease liabilities and their valuation is based on observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are valued based upon inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2015 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 11,990 490 12,480 Trade and other payables 159,866 159,866 Other liabilities 18,231 18,231 Borrowings 127,800 127,800 Total financial liabilities 11,990 490 305,897 318,377 As at 31 December 2014 Liabilities at fair Derivatives Other financial value through used for liabilities at in thousands of United States dollars profit and loss hedging amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet: Derivative financial instruments 16,754 1,054 17,808 Trade and other payables 174,254 174,254 Other liabilities 25,084 25,084 Borrowings 142,000 142,000 Total financial liabilities 16,754 1,054 341,338 359,146 Revolving credit facility The Group has a revolving credit facility in place for a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million, which was negotiated on 24 November 2010 with a syndicate of commercial banks, led by Citibank.
The facility has been provided to service the general corporate needs of the Group and to fund potential acquisitions.
All provisions contained in the credit facility documentation have been negotiated on normal commercial and customary terms for such finance arrangements and when drawn the spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
During 2015, the term of the facility was successfully extended to 2018 at a maximum aggregate amount of US$150 million.
At 31 December 2015, none of the funds were drawn under the facility.
The shares of all significant subsidiaries have been pledged as security for the loan.
Costs associated with the revolving credit facility have been included in finance expenses.
Derivative financial instruments The tables below analyse financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The Group has derivative financial instruments in the form of economic and cash flow hedging contracts which are all defined as level two instruments as they are valued using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities.
The following tables present the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 849 490 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 10,430 1,560 Total 849 10,920 1,560 For the year ended 31 December 2014 Assets Liabilities in thousands of United States dollars Current Non-current Current Non-current Interest contracts: Designated as cash flow hedges 1,806 1,054 Currency contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 819 Commodity contracts: Not designated as accounting hedges 1,040 11,856 4,079 Total 1,040 1,806 13,729 4,079 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks through its commercial and financial operations: a market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks: b credit risk: and c liquidity risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to maintain a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Board of Directors has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk, including commodity price, foreign currency and interest rate risks Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as commodity prices, foreign exchange rates or interest rates, will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
Gold price The market price of gold is one of the most significant factors in determining the profitability of the Groups operations.
The price of gold is subject to volatile price movements over short periods of time, especially in the current market environment, and is affected by numerous industry and macro-economic factors that are beyond the Groups control.
In 2015 the price ranged from US$1,049 to US$1,296 per ounce, with an average market price of US$1,160 per ounce 2014: US$1,266 per ounce.
The Groups policy is to sell gold at prevailing market prices.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market price on gold.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups loss after tax for the year or, where applicable, the change in equity.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by 10% with all other variables held constant.
The impact of a similar change in copper and silver is not material to the Groups loss after tax.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain associated with 10% increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Gold 55,941 59,472 Co-product prices In 2015, the copper price ranged from US$2.05 to US$2.92 per pound, with an average market price of US$2.49 per pound 2014: US$3.11 per pound and closing at US$2.13 per pound.
In 2015, the silver price ranged from US$14 to US$18 per ounce, with an average market price of US$16 per ounce 2014: US$19 per ounce.
The Group had copper collar contracts for 3.6 million pounds containing purchased put and call options with an average strike price of US$3.08 per pound and US$3.35 per pound respectively maturing in 2015.
These transactions are economic hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the fair value of these options are recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had no silver collar contracts outstanding 2014: No silver collar contracts outstanding.
136 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Oil price Diesel fuel is refined from crude oil and is therefore subject to the same price volatility affecting crude oil prices.
The Group enters into Brent oil option contracts to manage the impact of oil price fluctuations.
In 2015, oil prices traded between US$36 and US$68 per barrel with an average market price of US$54 2014: US$100 per barrel.
The table below summarises the impact of changes in the market prices of crude oil.
The impact is expressed in terms of the resulting change in the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The sensitivities are based on the assumption that the market price changes by US$10 per barrel with all other variables held constant.
The effect on profit after tax before hedging is calculated based on actual consumption for the year and does not address the indirect impact of a change in the oil price on other costs.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Gain loss associated with US$10 decrease increase from year-end price 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Oil 3,183 3,476 During the year, the Group did not add any further Brent oil collar contracts for calendar year 2015.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had a total 466,000 barrels of Brent crude oil net purchase options outstanding.
These contracts mature in 2016 and 2017 consisting of sold put options with average strike prices of US$72 per barrel and US$50 per barrel respectively and bought call options with average strike prices of US$94 per barrel and US$81 per barrel respectively.
During the year, the Group added 294,000 barrels of Brent oil collar contracts for calendar year 2016 and 2017.
These contracts are treated as accounting hedges in accordance with IAS 39.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of forecasted consumption purchased in a future month.
Hedge effectiveness is assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the commodity contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impacts earnings.
During 2015, these hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment as a result of not meeting the hedge effectiveness criteria.
Changes in the fair value of these options were therefore recorded as a component of other income expense in the income statement.
Risks relating to the use of derivatives By using derivatives, in addition to credit risk, we are affected by market risk.
Market risk is the risk that the fair value of a derivative might be adversely affected by a change in commodity prices, interest rates, or currency exchange rates, and that this in turn affects our financial condition.
We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring parameters that limit the types and degree of market risk that may be undertaken.
Foreign currency risk The Groups transactions are denominated in a number of different currencies primarily US dollars, Tanzanian shillings shillings, South African rands rands, UK pounds sterling pounds and Australian dollars.
The Group has liabilities that are primarily denominated in US dollars.
The US dollar is the Companys and its subsidiaries functional currency, as well as the Groups presentation currency.
Therefore, transactions in currencies other than the US dollar give rise to foreign currency translation risk.
The Groups primary exposure to this risk arises from direct mine operating costs and corporate administration costs that are transacted in shillings and rands, respectively.
Consequently, fluctuations in the US dollar shilling rand exchange rates increase the volatility of cost of sales, corporate administration costs and overall net earnings, which are reported in US dollars.
The vast majority of all direct mining costs and corporate administration costs are denominated and settled in US dollars.
Consequently, the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations on the Groups reported direct mining and corporate administration costs is not significant.
The exchange rates at the end of each financial year are detailed in Note 2g.
Historically, the relationship between the gold price and the value of the shilling and rand provide a natural hedge against fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies against the US dollar.
Generally, a strengthening of the shilling rand, which would cause an increase in reported US dollar operating costs, corresponds with an increase in the US dollar gold price, which results in an increase in reported US dollar revenues.
The Group enters into rand US dollar collar contracts to manage the impact of currency fluctuations on rand denominated operating and capital expenditures.
In 2015, the rand traded between R11.27 and R15.90 per US dollar, and averaged R12.72 per US dollar 2014: R10.85 per US dollar.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management continued In 2015 no new contracts were entered on forecasted lower rand denominated capital and operating expenditure.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had no rand collar contracts outstanding 2014: US$26 million of rand collar contracts with purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices R10.43 and R12.80 respectively and R171 million of rand collar contracts with purchased put and sold call options with average strike prices of R10.50 and R12.65 respectively.
The contracts that matured in 2015 were booked with rand nominal values and therefore act as a hedge against variability in the rand US dollar exchange range over the period.
Hedged items are identified as the first stated quantity of rand spent during the month.
Hedge effectiveness will be assessed using linear regression utilising the concept of the hypothetical derivative method.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure impact occurs.
The Group does have significant financial assets denominated in a currency other than US dollars.
These financial assets are as follow: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Indirect tax receivables denominated in Tanzanian shillings 110,228 108,144 Total 110,228 108,144 The following sensitivity analyses give the estimated effect of a reasonably possible change in the full year closing US dollar exchange rate on the value of the financial assets.
Effect on profit after tax For the For the year ended year ended Increase decrease associated with 10% change of the US dollar 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 US dollar strengthens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Increase in total indirect tax receivables 12,248 12,016 US dollar weakens by 10% to the Tanzanian shilling Decrease in total indirect tax receivables 10,021 9,831 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk on its cash and cash equivalents.
At present, available funds are held with financial institutions at variable rates and primarily denominated in US dollars: interest income is not materially affected by changes in short-term interest rates.
During 2013, the Group entered into an Export Credit Insurance Company ECIC backed seven-year term loan facility of US$142 million to fund the construction of the CIL Process plant at Bulyanhulu.
As at 31 December 2015 the loan is fully drawn with the first capital instalment totalling $14.2 million having been repaid during the year.
The balance owing as at 31 December 2015 was US$127.8 million.
Interest is payable on the loan at LIBOR plus 250 basis points.
The revolving credit facilitys spread over LIBOR will be 350 basis points.
Group debt levels are impacted by the amount of operating cash flow generated by its operating mines, as well as capital expenditure requirements related to existing operations and development projects.
In 2013, the Group entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge the interest on the ECIC backed loan for the Bulyanhulu CIL Process plant.
The terms of the interest rate swap contracts fix this at 3.59% versus the floating rate of LIBOR plus 2.50%.
The effective portion of changes in intrinsic value of the currency contracts is recorded in other comprehensive income until the forecasted expenditure occurs.
For 2014, these gains or losses were capitalised against the Bulyanhulu CIL Process plant asset until the plant was brought into operation.
Thereafter the gains or losses have been included as part of interest expense in the income statement.
138 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a third party might fail to fulfil its performance obligations under the terms of a financial instrument.
For cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, credit risk represents the carrying amount on the balance sheet, net of any overdraft positions.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, and deposits with banks, as well as trade and other receivables.
The Groups financial assets are held with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
Location of credit risk is determined by physical location of the bank branch, customer or counterparty.
The maximum allowable term to maturity for any individual security is three months.
Investment counterparties must have a credit rating of at least Baa1 or better by Moodys Investor Services or BBB by Standard and Poors.
No more than 25% of the aggregate market value of the investment portfolio is maintained in any one country, with the exception of the United States of America or the United Kingdom, or in any one industry group.
Investments are primarily held in United States dollars.
Cash and cash equivalents in other foreign currencies are maintained for operational requirements.
As at 31 December 2015 the Group has money market and short-term investments of US$111.4 million.
All of the funds have at least a BBB rating from Standard and Poors.
The Group also has US$121.9 million of cash on hand with banks with credit ratings ranging from A-1 to A-2.
With respect to other receivables, the most significant debtor is the Tanzanian Revenue Authority TRA.
Following the abolishment of Government Notices regarding VAT relief and fuel duty exemption for mining companies in 2009, Acacia signed a Memorandum of Settlement during 2011 with the TRA to address the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and VAT that allows Acacia to offset income tax payable against outstanding VAT and fuel levy refunds as it becomes payable.
Also, the Minister of Finance reinstated VAT relief and the fuel exemption followed by an agreement to allow for an escrow facility in respect of fuel and road levies.
Again through the Finance Act, 2012 issued on 19 October 2012, VAT Relief was abolished.
Throughout the past three years, Acacia has been actively involved in discussions with the Tanzanian Government and the TRA to resolve the issue.
The amendments conflict with certain provisions contained in the Groups existing Mine Development Agreements MDAs which guarantee the fiscal stability of its operations.
As part of a short-term solution, the Government during the third quarter of 2013, agreed to an escrow arrangement on VAT in relation to imported goods and services, whereby funds are restricted to the repayment of VAT refunds.
As at 31 December 2015, the discounted amounts due to the Group were approximately US$110.2 million 2014: US$108.1 million.
We received refunds to the value of US$89.4 million 2014: US$132.8 million during the year under review.
Group policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of a counterpartys failure to honour its obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with trade customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each of the counterparties.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties who the Group considers have an appropriate credit rating.
During the year, receivables to the value of approximately US$116 million 2014: US$32 million were advanced by a financial institution under two factoring agreements for two concentrate counterparties.
Three agreements reduce the risk of default of receivables.
Maximum exposure to credit risk at each reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets described in Note 30.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
The Group does not grade the credit quality of receivables.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of loss from not having access to sufficient funds to meet both expected and unexpected cash demands.
The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by ensuring that its operating and strategic liquidity levels are well above minimum internal requirements.
Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
At the end of both 2015 and 2014 the Group was in a positive net cash position, as disclosed in Note 19.
Details of the undrawn revolving credit facility are given in Note 30.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group receives cash proceeds from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
The cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested to maximise returns while ensuring that capital is safeguarded to the maximum extent possible by investing only with financial institutions with a strong credit rating.
Insignificant uncommitted overdraft facilities are maintained with several banking counterparties to meet the Groups normal funding requirements.
The Groups primary source of liquidity is operating cash flow, and over the past two years the Group has generated an average of about US$223 million per year.
The principal risk factor affecting operating cash flow is market gold prices.
The principal uses of liquidity are sustaining capital expenditures at existing operating mines, construction activities at development projects, and interest payments.
Sustaining capital expenditures, including capitalised development costs, have averaged about US$185 million per year over the past two years.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial assets into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances may not agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 32.
Financial risk management continued For the year ended 31 December 2015 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 233,268 233,268 Accounts receivable 14,363 14,363 Derivative financial instruments 849 849 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 71,258 20,203 30,589 10,524 132,574 Total 318,889 21,052 30,589 10,524 381,054 For the year ended 31 December 2014 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Cash and cash equivalents 293,850 293,850 Accounts receivable 34,989 34,989 Derivative financial instruments 1,040 1,806 2,846 1 Other assets excluding prepayments 69,570 19,787 53,994 143,351 Total 399,449 21,593 53,994 475,036 1 Prepayments are excluded from other assets in the analysis as they are not a financial instrument.
The following table outlines the expected maturity of the Groups significant financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
For the year ended 31 December 2015 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 10,920 1,560 12,480 Other liabilities 14,109 650 3,472 18,231 1 Trade and other payables 159,866 159,866 Borrowings 28,400 85,200 14,200 127,800 Total 213,295 87,410 17,672 318,377 For the year ended 31 December 2014 in thousands of United States dollars Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Derivative financial instruments 13,729 4,079 17,808 Other liabilities 7,719 8,574 8,791 25,084 1 Trade and other payables 174,254 174,254 Borrowings 14,200 56,800 56,800 14,200 142,000 Total 209,902 69,453 65,591 14,200 359,146 1 Trade and other payables exclude statutory liabilities in the form of income tax payable.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash flow from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from settlement of current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio to support its business and provide financial flexibility in order to maximise shareholder value.
In order to ensure a strong balance sheet and low gearing ratio, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions, which are approved by the Executive Leadership Team before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
140 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 33.
Operating lease arrangements For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in the income statement for the year 6,953 2,506 Total 6,953 2,506 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Within one year 6,412 1,103 In the second to fifth years inclusive 2,167 1,518 After five years 132 Total 8,579 2,753 Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of office space by regional business units of the Group and rental of Gensets at Buzwagi.
Commitments and contingencies The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group has the following commitments and or contingencies: a Legal contingencies As at 31 December 2015, the Group was a defendant in approximately 341 lawsuits.
The plaintiffs are claiming damages and interest thereon for the loss caused by the Group due to one or more of the following: unlawful eviction, termination of services, wrongful termination of contracts of service, non-payment for services, defamation, negligence by act or omission in failing to provide a safe working environment, unpaid overtime and public holiday compensation.
The total amounts claimed from lawsuits in which specific monetary damages are sought amounted to US$280.0 million.
The Groups Legal Counsel is defending the Groups current position, and the outcome of the lawsuits cannot presently be determined.
However, in the opinion of the Directors and Groups Legal Counsel, no material liabilities are expected to materialise from these lawsuits that have not already been provided for.
Included in the total amounts claimed is a claim for US$115 million by Bismark Hotel Limited alleging breach of contract arising from an Optional Agreement signed in 1995.
The claim relates to an application for a prospecting licence with no attributable reserves, resources or value.
We are waiting for the adjudicators to fix a hearing date.
Management is of the opinion that the claim does not have substance and that it will be successfully defended.
NMGML and Diamond Motors Ltd DML have entered into arbitration over the interpretation of drilling contracts entered into by the parties, relating to periodic rate review and other provisions of the contracts.
The award was delivered on 10 August 2015, with the Tribunal determining an award of US$4 million against the final claimed amount of US$25 million.
This award was consistent with NMGMLs position in relation to the arbitration and the full amount has been provided for.
DML on 31 December 2015 filed a Petition at the High Court to challenge the award.
A claim has been made for US$15 million by the contractor responsible for the engineering, procurement and construction of a carbon in leach circuit at Bulyanhulu Gold Mine BGML.
BGML has made claims in relation to delay damages and other breaches of the contract totalling US$22 million.
These claims were referred to adjudication, with the initial decision finding in favour of the contractor.
The claims have now been referred to arbitration and management is of the opinion that it will be successful in respect of both claims.
b Tax-related contingencies The TRA has issued a number of tax assessments to the Group relating to past taxation years from 2002 onwards.
The Group believes that these assessments are incorrect and has filed objections to each of them.
The Group is attempting to resolve these matters by means of discussions with the TRA or through the Tanzanian Appeals process.
During 2013, the Board ruled in favour of BGML in relation to seven of ten issues raised by the TRA in final assessments for 20002006 years under review.
The TRA filed a notice of intention to appeal against the ruling of the Board and Acacia filed a counter appeal in respect of BGML to the Appeals Tribunal for all three items that were lost.
The Tribunal delivered its judgement in 2014 and confirmed the Boards decision on the three items that Acacia lost.
Following the Tribunals decision, two notices of intention to appeal were filed and we are still waiting for the hearing date from the Court of Appeal.
The positions that were ruled against BGML were sufficiently provided for in prior year results and management is of the opinion that open issues will not result in any material liabilities to the Group.
Also included is an appeal by the TRA intended for a tax assessment of US$21.3 million in respect of the acquisition of Tusker Gold Limited.
The calculated tax assessment is based on the sales price of the Nyanzaga property of US$71 million multiplied by the tax rate of 30%.
Management is of the opinion that the assessment is invalid due to the fact that the acquisition was for Tusker Gold Limited, a company incorporated in Australia.
The shareholding of the Tanzanian related entities did not change and the Tusker Gold Limited group structure remains the same as prior to the acquisition.
The case was awarded in favour of Acacia however the TRA served a notice of appeal.
The appeal was decided in favour of Acacia by the Tax Board and the Tax Tribunal, but the TRA has appealed against the Tribunals decision in the Court of Appeal.
We are waiting for the hearing date to be set.
The TRA raised claims to the value of US$41.3 million for withholding tax on historic offshore dividend payments paid by Acacia Mining plc to its shareholders.
In addition to the claim, there are six other withholding tax claims which have not been quantified.
The TRA have also issued corporate tax assessments to Acacia Mining plc to the value of US$500.7 million.
These claims are made on the basis that Acacia is resident in Tanzania for tax purposes.
The corporate tax assessments have been levied on the Group net profits before tax.
Management are of the opinion that the claims do not have substance and that it will be successfully defended in court in terms of the case already on appeal with the Tax Tribunal.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Commitments and contingencies continued c Exploration and development agreements Mining licences Pursuant to agreements with the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania, the Group was issued special mining licences for Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and North Mara mines and mining licences for building materials at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi Mines.
The agreement requires the Group to pay to the Government of Tanzania annual rents of US$5,000 per annum per square kilometre for as long as the Group holds the special mining licences and US$2,000 per annum per square kilometre for so long as the Group holds the mining licences for building materials.
The total commitment for 2015 for the remaining special mining licences and mining licences for building materials amounts to US$0.66 million 2014: US$0.66 million.
d Purchase commitments At 31 December 2015, the Group had purchase obligations for supplies and consumables of approximately US$43 million 2014: US$64 million.
e Capital commitments In addition to entering into various operational commitments in the normal course of business, the Group entered into contracts for capital expenditure of approximately US$7 million 2014: US$20 million.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by BGC, which is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
Transactions with related parties are as follows: a Transactions For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Provision of goods and services 3,142 2,114 Purchase of goods and services 2,042 3,184 Dividend payments 11,014 8,916 Total 16,198 9,986 Provision and purchase of goods and services to from related parties are on normal commercial terms and conditions.
Provision of services relates to cost incurred by the Group and recharged to related parties.
Purchase of goods and services relates to cost incurred by related parties and recharged to the Group.
Services purchased relate mainly to insurance and software licences.
Goods purchased relate mainly to consumables and capital equipment.
b Balances due from related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Placer Dome Technical Services 37 37 Other 79 1 Total 116 38 The receivables are unsecured in nature and bear no interest.
There are no provisions held against receivables from BGC.
c Balances due to related parties As at As at 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Due to holding company: Barrick Gold Corporation 12,190 13,396 Due to fellow subsidiaries: BIBC 97 196 Barrick Gold Australia Ltd 662 750 Barrick Gold North America 771 771 Other 88 Total 13,720 15,201 The payables to Barrick arise mainly from purchase transactions noted above.
The payables are unsecured and bear no interest.
142 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION d Remuneration of key management personnel Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Team who receive remuneration.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: For the For the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December in thousands of United States dollars 2015 2014 Short-term employee benefits 9,709 9,116 Post-employment benefits 888 849 Share-based payments 1,201 621 Total 11,798 10,586 36.
Prospecting licences The Group holds exploration mineral rights in the United Republic of Tanzania.
These rights are held in the form of prospecting licences issued by the Ministry of Energy and Minerals and are held either directly by the Group or indirectly pursuant to third-party agreements.
The licences held by the Group as at 31 December 2015 are summarised in the following table.
The total commitment to exploration expenditure on these licences for 2016 is US$1.5 million.
Licences directly held by Acacia Active prospecting licences Active prospecting licences managed by Acacia not managed by Acacia Number of Area in square Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres licences kilometres ABG Exploration Limited 83 559 23 169 North Mara Gold Mine Limited 16 93 Nyanzaga Mining Company Limited 15 172 Pangea Mineral Limited 38 309 9 91 Prime Gold Exploration Limited 2 34 2 24 Sub-Sahara Resources TZ Limited 3 11 Vulcan Resources Tanzania Limited 3 37 7 78 Total 160 1,215 41 362 Licences indirectly held by Acacia Number of Area in square in thousands of United States dollars licences kilometres Managed by Acacia 1 3 Not managed by Acacia 46 504 37.
Post-balance sheet events A final dividend of US2.8 cents per share has been proposed, which will result in a total dividend of US4.2 cents per share for 2015.
The final dividend is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2016 and paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on the register on 6 May 2016.
The ex-dividend date is 5 May 2016.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
On 23 February 2016 the Group announced that it had entered into zero cost collars in relation to the majority of its gold production from Buzwagi.
The agreements cover 136,000 ounces of production in 2016 and management has been given authority by the Board to put in place similar arrangements for around 120,000 of Buzwagi production in 2017.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 143
