RESERVES AND RESOURCES Mineral reserves and mineral resources estimates contained in this An Inferred Mineral Resource Annual Report have been calculated as at 31 December 2015 in The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality accordance with National Instrument 43-101 as required by Canadian are estimated on the basis of limited geological evidence and sampling securities regulatory authorities, unless otherwise stated.
Canadian gathered through appropriate sampling techniques from locations such Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum CIM definitions were as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
Geological evidence followed for mineral reserves and resources.
Calculations have been is sufficient to imply but not verify geological and grade or quality reviewed, verified including estimation methodology, sampling, analytical continuity.
An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence and test data and compiled by Acacia personnel under the supervision than that applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be of Acacia Qualified Person: Haydn Hadlow, Technical Services Manager.
It is reasonably expected that the However, the figures stated are estimates and no assurances can be majority of Inferred Mineral Resources could be upgraded to Indicated given that the indicated quantities of metal will be produced.
In addition, Mineral Resources with continued exploration.
totals stated may not add up due to rounding.
An Indicated Mineral Resource Mineral reserves have been calculated using an assumed long-term The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, average gold price of US$1,100 per ounce, a silver price of US$15.00 densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated with per ounce and a copper price of US$2.50 per pound.
sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic Reserve calculations incorporate current and or expected mine plans viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from adequately and cost levels at each property and reflect contained ounces.
detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing and is sufficient to assume geological and grade or quality continuity between points Mineral resources at Acacia mines have been calculated using an assumed of observation.
An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of long-term average gold price of US$1,400 per ounce, a silver price of confidence than that applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and US$15.00 per ounce and a copper price of US$2.50 per pound and may only be converted to a Probable Mineral Reserve.
A Measured Mineral Resource Mineral resources at Acacia exploration properties have been calculated The part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, using an assumed long-term average gold price of US$1,500.00 densities, shape, and physical characteristics are estimated with per ounce.
confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the economic Resources have been estimated using varying cut-off grades, depending viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from detailed on the type of mine or project, its maturity and ore types at each and reliable exploration, sampling and testing and is sufficient to confirm property.
Reserve estimates are dynamic and are influenced by changing geological and grade or quality continuity between points of observation.
economic conditions, technical issues, environmental regulations and A Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than that any other relevant new information and therefore these can vary from applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral year to year.
Resource estimates can also change and tend to be Resource.
It may be converted to a Proven Mineral Reserve or to influenced mostly by new information pertaining to the understanding a Probable Mineral Reserve.
of the deposit and secondly the conversion to ore reserves.
In addition, estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of an A Mineral Reserve economic analysis and it cannot be assumed that all or any part of an The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses, which Therefore, investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of may occur when the material is mined or extracted and is defined by an inferred mineral resource exists, that it can be economically or legally studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as appropriate that include mined, or that it will ever be upgraded to a higher category.
Likewise, application of Modifying Factors.
Such studies demonstrate that, at the investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured time of reporting, extraction could reasonably be justified.
Mineral or indicated mineral resources will ever be upgraded to mineral reserves.
Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into Probable Mineral Reserves and Proven Mineral Reserves.
A Probable Mineral Definitions Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proven MineralReserve.
A Mineral Resource A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic interest in or Modifying Factors on the Earths crust in such form, grade or quality and quantity that there These are considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Mineral are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other geological characteristics metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific social and governmental factors.
geological evidence and knowledge, including sampling.
Material of economic interest refers to diamonds, natural solid inorganic material, A Probable Mineral Reserve or natural solid fossilised organic material including base and precious The economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some metals, coal, and industrial minerals.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
The confidence in the in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Mineral Reserve is lower than Measured categories.
An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level that applying to a Proven Mineral Reserve.
Probable Mineral Reserve of confidence than that applied to an Indicated Mineral Resource.
estimates must be demonstrated to be economic, at the time of An Indicated Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than reporting, by at least a Pre-Feasibility Study.
an Inferred Mineral Resource but has a lower level of confidence than a Measured Mineral Resource.
A Proven Mineral Reserve The economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
A Proven Mineral Reserve implies a high degree of confidence in the Modifying Factors.
Proven Mineral Reserve estimates must be demonstrated to be economic, at the time of reporting, by at least a Pre-Feasibility Study.
