134 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to 29 Acquisitions document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged ICS Group Inc and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to document On 2 September 2015 the Group completed the acquisition of the and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the business and assets of the equipment rental business of ICS Group hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge Inc.
The purchase consideration, paid in cash was C$37 million will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
The revenue and operating profit included in the consolidated income statement from 2 September 2015 to 31 December 2015 contributed Cash ow hedges by ICS was 2 million and nil respectively.
Had ICS been consolidated Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement for the year are designated, and effective, as hedges of future cash ows are ended 31 December 2015 would show revenue and operating profit recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised of10 million and 2 million respectively.
immediately in the income statement.
If the cash ow hedge is of a The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted and rm commitment or forecasted transaction that subsequently results the goodwill arising on the purchase has been capitalised.
in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or Acquisition related costs of 1 million have been expensed in the liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative period and are included within administrative expenses in the that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges of transactions that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts The details of the transaction and fair value of assets acquired are deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same shown below: period in which the hedged item affects net profit and loss.
Fair value Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not million qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement Intangible assets 4 as they arise.
Property, plant & equipment 6 Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no Inventories 1 longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time any cumulative gain Net assets acquired 11 or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in Goodwill 7 equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction Consideration per cash ow statement 18 is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Goodwill represents the value of synergies arising from the integration of the acquired business.
Synergies include direct cost savings and Overseas net investment hedges the reduction of overheads as well as the ability to leverage Aggreko Certain foreign currency borrowings are designated as hedges of systems and access to assets.
the Groups overseas net investments, which are denominated in thefunctional currency of the reporting operation.
30 Notes to the Group Accounts appendices Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net 30.
A1 Accounting policies investment in foreign entities and of borrowings are taken to equity on consolidation to the extent the hedges are deemed effective.
Derivative financial instruments All other exchange gains and losses are dealt with through the The activities of the Group expose it directly to the financial risks of income statement.
changes in forward foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign Share-based payments currency options and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been applied to all grants of exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for equity instruments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based speculative purposes.
payments to certain employees under the terms of the Groups various Derivatives are initially recorded and subsequently measured at fair employee-share and option schemes.
Equity-settled share-based value, which is calculated using standard industry valuation techniques payments are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair in conjunction with observable market data.
The fair value of interest value determined at the grant date of equity-settled share-based rate swaps is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, ows using market interest rates and the fair value of forward foreign based on an estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest.
Fair value exchange contracts is determined using forward foreign exchange ismeasured using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
market rates at the reporting date.
The treatment of changes in fair Own shares held under trust for the Groups employee share value of derivatives depends on the derivative classication.
The Group schemes are classed as Treasury shares and deducted in arriving designates derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecasted at Shareholders equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on disposal of transactions or commitments cash ow hedge.
Purchases of own shares are disclosed as changes inShareholders equity.
