150 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE COMPANY ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 Paragraph 17 of lAS 24, Related party disclosures key 31 Company accounting policies management compensation 31.1 Basis of preparation The requirements in lAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with related party transactions entered into between two or more Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework members of a group.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain 31.1.
1 Going concern financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair Given the going concern disclosures in the Group Accounts on values in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. page113 the Directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the 31.1.
2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures Companys accounting policies.
New and amended standards adopted by the Company The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been There are no new standards that are effective for the first time this year applied in the preparation of these financial statements, in accordance that have a material impact on the Company.
with FRS 101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment Property, plant and equipment details of the number and weighted-average exercise prices of Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated share options, and how the fair value of goods or services received depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes purchase price, was determined and directly attributable costs of bringing the assets into the location IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and condition where it is capable for use.
Borrowings costs are not capitalised.
Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement disclosure Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of each asset over its of assets and liabilities useful life from the date it is available for use.
The principal period Paragraph 38 of lAS 1, Presentation of financial statements ofdepreciation used is as follows: comparative information requirements in respect of: Vehicles, plant and equipment 4 to 8 years.
Paragraph 79 a iv of lAS 1: Impairment of property, plant and equipment Paragraph 73 e of lAS 16 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is depreciated and reviewed for Paragraph 188 e of lAS 38 Intangible assets reconciliations impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment the period lossis recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying The following paragraphs of lAS 1, Presentation of amountexceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is financial statements: the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is calculated using estimated cash ows.
These are 10 d statement of cash ows discounted using an appropriate long-term pre-tax interest rate.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows of the preceding period income-generating units.
16 statement of compliance with all IFRS Foreign currencies 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash ow statements At individual Company level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the day the 38B-D additional comparative information transaction occurs.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets 111 cash ow statement information, and are translated at the historical rate.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Company enters into forward 134-136 capital management disclosures foreign exchange contracts.
The Companys financial statements are lAS 7, Statement of cash ows presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
Paragraph 30 and 31 of lAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors requirements for the disclosure ofinformation when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective
