OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 151 31 Company accounting policies continued Employee benets The Company operates both a dened benefit pension scheme and a Derivative financial instruments dened contribution pension scheme.
The accounting policy is identical The accounting policy is identical to that applied by the consolidated tothat applied by the consolidated Group as set out on page 115.
Investments Borrowings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction of the Company at cost, or nominal value of the shares issued as costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised consideration where applicable, less provision for any impairment in cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, value.
Share-based payments recharged to subsidiary undertakings and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over are treated as capital contributions and are added to investments.
theperiod ofthe borrowings using the effective interest rate.
Leases Taxation Leases where substantially all of the risks and rewards of The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred ownership are not transferred to the Company are classied as tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the operating leases.
Rentals under operating leases are charged extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive against operating profit ona straight line basis over the term of income or directly in Shareholders funds.
In this case, the tax the lease.
is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly inShareholders funds, respectively.
Share-based payments The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the The accounting policy is identical to that applied by the consolidated tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet Group as set out on page 116 with the exception that shares issued date in the countries where the Company operates and generates by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries for which no taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions consideration is received are treated as an increase in the Companys taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable investment in those subsidiaries.
tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid Dividend distribution tothe tax authorities.
Dividend distribution to the Companys Shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Companys financial statements in the period in Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences which the dividends are approved by the Companys Shareholders.
arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax 32 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: or arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in Taxation a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of This is explained in Note 1 to the Group Accounts on page 116. the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that 33 Transition to IFRS have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income The Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
2015 are the first annual financial statements that comply with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
These financial statements have Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that been prepared as described in Note 31. itis probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The Companys transition date is 1 January 2014.
The Company prepared its opening IFRS balance sheet at that date.
The reporting Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there date of these financial statements is 31 December 2015. is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against The Companys IFRS adoption date is 1 January 2015. current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation The comparative gures for 2014 have been restated accordingly.
authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable No adjustments were required to either profit or net assets for the year.
entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
34 Dividends Refer to Note 11 of the Group Accounts.
