102 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Aggreko plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state ofthe Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit and cash ows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 31 December 2015: the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: the Group Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identied as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Our audit approach Context As discussed in the Annual Report, during 2015 Aggreko changed business line reporting with Aggreko Power Solutions Utility and Industrial now encompassing the previous power projects business and local businesses in developing markets and Aggreko Rental Solutions encompassing local businesses in developed markets.
This change in reporting did not require us to substantively change our Group audit process from the previous year.
We did, however, focus this year on exceptional items relating to the Group reorganisation and business priorities review referred tointheAnnual Report.
Overview Overall Group materiality: 12.6 million which represents 5% of profit before taxand Materiality exceptional items.
In terms of Group audit scope, we conducted audit work at 12 reporting units within the Group, which together comprised 74% of the Groups revenues and 81% of the Groups profit before tax.
Audit scope We worked closely with audit teams both within and outside the UK, including visiting our team in Houston.
In terms of our Group audit, our principal areas of focus were: Contract receivables balances and associated provisioning: Areas of Tax provisions Direct and indirect : focus Revenue recognition: and Exceptional items relating to Group reorganisation and business priorities review.
