154 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar 21 April 2016 Ex-dividend date Final dividend 22 April 2016 Record date to be eligible for the final dividend 28 April 2016 Annual General Meeting 28 April 2016 Q1 Trading Update for the year to 31 December 2016 24 May 2016 Final dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2015 3 August 2016 Half Year Results announcement for the year to 31 December 2016 early September 2016 Ex-dividend date Interim dividend early September 2016 Record date to be eligible for the interim dividend late September early October 2016 Interim dividend payment for the year to 31 December 2016 mid November 2016 Q3 Trading Update for the year to 31 December 2016 Our website Dividend Reinvestment Plan Our corporate website provides access to share price and dividend In 2015 we introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for information as well as sections on managing your shareholding eligible Shareholders.
This allows Shareholders to purchase additional online, corporate governance and other investor relations information.
sharesin Aggreko with their dividend payment.
Further information To access the website, please visit www.
and a mandate can be obtained from our Registrars, Capita, usingthecontact details opposite, or by using the share portal at https: shares.
Managing your shares online Shareholders can manage their holding online by registering to use Duplicate documents our Shareholder portal at https: shares.
This service is provided by our Registrar, Capita, giving quick and easy access to your Some Shareholders nd that they receive duplicate documentation shareholding, allowing you to manage all aspects of your shareholding andsplit dividend payments due to having more than one account online, with a useful FAQ section.
If you think you fall into this group and would liketo combine your accounts, please contact our Registrar, Capita.
Electronic communications Changes of address We encourage Shareholders to consider receiving their communications electronically.
Choosing to receive your To avoid missing important correspondence relating to your communications electronically means you receive information quickly shareholding, it is important that you inform our Registrar, Capita, and securely and allows us tocommunicate in a more environmentally ofyour new address as soon as possible.
You can register for this service online using our share portal at https: shares.
Investor Relations App We have recently published an Investor Relations and Media App, Payment of dividends which is available for both Apple and Android devices.
This allows Shareholders whose dividends are not currently paid directly into youto easily access all our financial publications, including the their bank accounts may wish to consider setting this service up.
The online report and a link to download the We encourage Shareholders to have dividends paid direct to their Appcan be found at www.
bank accounts as this has a number of advantages, including ensuring efficient payment to receive cleared funds on the payment date.
Sharegift If you have a very small shareholding that is uneconomical to sell, If Shareholders would like to receive their dividends directly to their you may want to consider donating it to Sharegift Registered Charity bank account, they should call the Registrar, Capita, using the no.
10526886, a charity that specialises in the donation of small, details opposite.
unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
You can nd out more UK Shareholders may also register using the share portal at byvisiting www.
Shareholder queries Overseas Shareholders may also be able to have the dividend Our share register is maintained by our Registrar, Capita.
converted to local currency before payment to your bank account Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should using the international payment service.
Please call the Registrar, contactCapita directly using one of the methods listed opposite.
Capita, using the details opposite, or visit www.
com For more general queries, Shareholders can look at our website at international.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 155 USEFUL CONTACTS Additional documents An interactive summary version of our Annual Report is available online Registrar at www.
Capita Asset Services, Shareholder Solutions Additionally the Annual Report is available for download in pdf format at The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road www.
Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU United Kingdom Telephone 0871 664 0300 Unsolicited mail and Shareholder fraud 44 0 20 8639 3399 Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited mail or Website www.
com telephonecalls offering free advice, to buy shares at a discount or Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
com offering free company reports.
To nd more detailed information onhow Shareholders can be protected from investment scams Stockbrokers visitwww.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch London Citigroup Global Markets London Auditors  Glasgow Chartered Accountants Aggrekos registered ofce 8th Floor, 120 Bothwell Street Glasgow G2 7JS Scotland, United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 141 225 5900 Email investors@aggreko.
com Registered in Scotland No.
SC177553 Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Peter Kennerley
