OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 113 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 IFRS 9, Financial instruments addresses the classication, 1 Accounting policies measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of the registered ofce is 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow G27JS, UK.
IFRIS 16, Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRIS 16 requires The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these lessees to recognise a lease liability reecting future lease payments consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
The Group have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless willassess the impact of IFRS 16 closer to the implementation date.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet Basis of preparation effective that would be expected to have a material impact on The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance the Group.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act Basis of consolidation 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, ofAggreko plc and all its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December as modied by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial 2015.
Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns through its power over the entity.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the control ceases.
reported amounts of the revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for may differ from those estimates.
the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued Going concern by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration in connection with the viability statement, the directors considered arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Identiable assetsand liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed preparing the financial statements.
ina business combination are measured initially at their fair values attheacquisition date.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
a New and amended standards adopted by the Group Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of There are no new IFRSs or IFRICs that are effective for the first time subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure thisyear that have a material impact on the Group.
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but Revenue recognition noteffective for the financial year beginning 1January 2015 and not Revenue for the Group represents the amounts earned from the supply early adopted of temporary power, temperature control, oil-free compressed air and IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue related services and excludes sales taxes and intra-Group revenue.
recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information Revenue can comprise a xed rental charge and a variable charge to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and related to the usage of assets or other services.
In all cases, revenue is uncertainty of revenue and cash ows arising from an entitys contracts recognised in accordance with the contractual arrangements, for xed with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains rental charges, over the rental period and for variable elements as the control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use asset is utilised or service is provided.
Revenue is accrued or deferred and obtain benets from the good or service.
The standard replaces at the balance sheet date depending on the date of the most recent IAS 18 Revenue and IAS11 Construction contracts and related invoice issued and the contractual terms.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group will access the impact of Segmental reporting IFRS15 closer to the implementation date.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identied as the plc Board of Directors.
