OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 113 NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 IFRS 9, Financial instruments addresses the classication, 1 Accounting policies measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of the registered ofce is 120 Bothwell Street, Glasgow G27JS, UK.
IFRIS 16, Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRIS 16 requires The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these lessees to recognise a lease liability reecting future lease payments consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
The Group have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless willassess the impact of IFRS 16 closer to the implementation date.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet Basis of preparation effective that would be expected to have a material impact on The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance the Group.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act Basis of consolidation 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, ofAggreko plc and all its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December as modied by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial 2015.
Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns through its power over the entity.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the control ceases.
reported amounts of the revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for may differ from those estimates.
the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued Going concern by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration in connection with the viability statement, the directors considered arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Identiable assetsand liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed preparing the financial statements.
ina business combination are measured initially at their fair values attheacquisition date.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
a New and amended standards adopted by the Group Unrealised losses are also eliminated.
Accounting policies of There are no new IFRSs or IFRICs that are effective for the first time subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure thisyear that have a material impact on the Group.
consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but Revenue recognition noteffective for the financial year beginning 1January 2015 and not Revenue for the Group represents the amounts earned from the supply early adopted of temporary power, temperature control, oil-free compressed air and IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with revenue related services and excludes sales taxes and intra-Group revenue.
recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information Revenue can comprise a xed rental charge and a variable charge to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and related to the usage of assets or other services.
In all cases, revenue is uncertainty of revenue and cash ows arising from an entitys contracts recognised in accordance with the contractual arrangements, for xed with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains rental charges, over the rental period and for variable elements as the control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use asset is utilised or service is provided.
Revenue is accrued or deferred and obtain benets from the good or service.
The standard replaces at the balance sheet date depending on the date of the most recent IAS 18 Revenue and IAS11 Construction contracts and related invoice issued and the contractual terms.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group will access the impact of Segmental reporting IFRS15 closer to the implementation date.
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identied as the plc Board of Directors.
114 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of 1 Accounting policies continued the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
During 2015 Aggreko reorganised into two business units: Rental These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated Solutions and Power Solutions, to better focus on our customers.
useful lives, which is currently deemed to be four years.
Within Power Solutions we serve both Utility and Industrial customers.
Aggreko therefore has three segments comprising: Rental Solutions, The useful life of intangible assets is reviewed on an annual basis.
Power Solutions Industrial and Power Solutions Utility.
A description of these business units is contained on pages 8 to 17.
This is reected Goodwill by the Groups divisional management and organisational structure and On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the the Groups internal financial reporting systems.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the Central administrative costs are allocated between segments based consideration given for a business exceeds the fair value of such on revenue.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is subject to impairment reviews, both annually and when there are indicators that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are items which individually or if of a similar type, For the purpose of the impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to in aggregate, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence each of the Groups cash generating units expected to benefit from if the financial statements are to be properly understood.
To monitor the synergies of the combination.
Cash generating units to which our financial performance we use a profit measure that excludes goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or exceptional items.
We exclude these items because, if included, these more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be items could distort understanding of our performance for the year impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit and comparability between periods.
The income statement has been is less than the carrying amount of the unit, then the impairment presented in a columnar format, which separately highlights exceptional loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill items.
This is intended to enable users of the financial statements to allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata determine more readily the impact of exceptional items on the results on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a Exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2015 were subsequent period.
Any impairment of goodwill is recognised 26 million before taxation 2014: nil and they relate to the Group immediately in the income statement.
reorganisation and business priorities review.
They comprise employee related costs, professional fees and property related costs.
These costs Impairment of property, plant and equipment are explained in Note 7 to the Accounts.
and other intangible assets excluding goodwill Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are Property, plant and equipment amortised depreciated and reviewed for impairment whenever events Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes purchase price, not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount and directly attributable costs of bringing the asset into the location by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
and condition where it is capable for use.
Borrowing costs are not The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs capitalised since the assets are assembled over a short period of time.
Value in use is calculated using estimated cash ows.
These are discounted using an appropriate long-term pre-tax Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight line basis over 25 interest rate.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are years.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated on a straight line grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable basis over the terms of each lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates estimated to write off the cost of each asset Foreign currencies over its useful life from the date it is available for use.
Assets in the Items included in the financial statements for each of the Groups course of construction are not depreciated.
Non-rental eet assets entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic which are contract specic are depreciated over the life of the contract.
environment in which the entity operates functional currency.
The periods of depreciation are reviewed on an annual basis and the The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in principal periods used are as follows: Sterling, which is the Groups presentational currency.
Rental eet 8 to 10 years At individual Company level, transactions denominated in foreign Vehicles, plant and equipment 4 to 15 years currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the day the transaction occurs.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Intangibles currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination date.
Non-monetary assets are translated at the historical rate.
In order are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual enters into forward contracts and foreign currency options.
or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of subsidiary undertakings Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line method to allocate the fair are translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange.
Income and value at acquisition of each asset over their estimated useful lives as cash ow statements are translated at average rates of exchange for follows: customer relationships: 10 years: non-compete agreements: the period.
Gains and losses from the settlement of transactions and over the life of the non-compete agreements.
gains and losses on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies are included in the income statement.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 115 1 Accounting policies continued Employee benets Wages, salaries, social security contributions, paid annual leave Derivative financial instruments and sick leave, bonuses and non-monetary benets are accrued This accounting policy is included in Note 30 Notes to the Group in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the Accounts appendices.
Where the Group provides long-term employee benets, the cost is accrued to match the rendering of Taxation the services by the employees concerned.
The Group operates a dened benefit pension scheme and a number Deferred tax of dened contribution pension schemes.
The cost for the year for the Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary dened benefit scheme is determined using the attained age method differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and with actuarial updates to the valuation being carried out at each their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
In principle, deferred balance sheet date.
Remeasurements are recognised in full, directly tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and in retained earnings, in the period in which they occur and are shown deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that in the statement of comprehensive income.
The current service cost taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary of the pension charge, interest income on scheme assets, interest on differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not pension scheme liabilities and administrative expenses are included in recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, negative arriving at operating profit.
goodwill nor from the acquisition of an asset, which does not affect either taxable or accounting income.
Deferred tax is determined using The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet is tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related date less the fair value of the scheme assets.
The present value of the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except future cash ows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds.
when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which Contributions to dened contribution pension schemes are charged to case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
the income statement in the period in which they become chargeable.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of Trade receivables the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value which is the same that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
An impairment is recorded for the difference between the Provision for income taxes, mainly withholding taxes, which could carrying amount and the recoverable amount where there is objective arise on the remittance of retained earnings, principally relating to evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
subsidiaries, is only made where there is a current intention to remit significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor such earnings.
will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default, or large and old outstanding balances, particularly in countries where the legal system is not easily used to enforce recovery, are considered Current tax indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
When a trade receivable The charge for the current tax is based on the results for the year is uncollectible it is written off against the provision for impairment of as adjusted for items, which are non-assessable or disallowed.
calculated using taxation rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value which is the same Inventories as cost.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, using the weighted average cost basis.
Cost of raw materials, Provisions consumables and work in progress includes the cost of direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour and those overheads that have Provisions are recognised where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location been incurred which will probably lead to an outow of resources that and condition.
Provisions are recorded for the estimated ultimate liability that is expected to arise, taking into account the time Inventory is written down on a case by case basis if the anticipated net value of money where material.
realisable value declines below the carrying amount of the inventories.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less cost to As at 31 December 2015 provisions totalled 8 million 2014: nil and completion and selling expenses.
When the reasons for a write-down they relate to the Group reorganisation and business priorities review.
of the inventory have ceased to exist, the write-down is reversed.
The provisions are generally in respect of employee related costs, professional fees and property related costs.
These provisions are detailed in Note 21.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events, or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inow of economic benets is probable.
116 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2015 Further information is shown at Notes 10 and 22 to the Annual Report 1 Accounting policies continued and Accounts.
Share-based payments This accounting policy is included in Note 30 Notes to the Group Financial risk management Accounts appendices.
Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that Cash and cash equivalents include liquidity, the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits with rates, interest rates and credit risk.
The Group has a centralised amaturity of three months or less.
treasury operation whose primary role is to ensure that adequate liquidity is available to meet the Groups funding requirements as Borrowings they arise, and that financial risk arising from the Groups underlying Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction operations is effectively identied and managed.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and The treasury operations are conducted in accordance with policies the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the and procedures approved by the Board and are reviewed annually.
period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
Financial instruments are only executed for hedging purposes and transactions that are speculative in nature are expressly forbidden.
Monthly reports are provided to senior management and treasury Key assumptions and significant judgements operations are subject to periodic internal and external review.
The Group uses estimates and makes judgements in the preparation of its Accounts.
The most sensitive areas affecting the Accounts are discussed below.
Liquidity, funding and capital management The intention of Aggrekos strategy is to deliver long-term value to its Shareholders whilst maintaining a balance sheet structure that Trade receivables safeguards the Groups financial position through economic cycles.
The trade receivables accounting policy is on page 115.
Total capital is equity as shown in the Group balance sheet.
The majority of the contracts the Group enters into are small relative Given the proven ability of the business to fund organic growth from to the size of the Group and, if a customer fails to pay a debt, this is operating cash ows, and the nature of our business model, we believe dealt with in the normal course of business.
However, some of the it is sensible to run the business with a modest amount of debt.
We say contracts the Group undertakes in developing countries are very large, modest because we are strongly of the view that it is unwise to run a and are in jurisdictions where payment practices can be unpredictable.
business which has high levels of operational gearing with high levels of The Group monitors the risk prole and debtor position of all such financial gearing.
Given the above considerations, we believe that a Net contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques to mitigate Debt to EBITDA ratio of around one times is appropriate for the Group the risks of delayed or non-payment: these include securing advance over the longer term.
This is well within our covenants to lenders which payments and guarantees.
As a result of the rigorous approach to stand at three times Net Debt to EBITDA.
risk management, historically the Group has had a low level of bad debt write-offs although the risk of a major default is high.
When a At the end of 2015, Net Debt to EBITDA was 0.9 times 31 December trade receivable is uncollectible it is written off against the provision for 2014: 0.9 times.
At 31 December 2015 the provision for The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its normal funding impairment of trade receivables in the balance sheet was 64 million requirements over the medium term.
facilities totalled 891 million in the form of committed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of international banks and Taxation private placement notes.
The financial covenants attached to these Aggrekos tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates in facilities are that EBITDA should be no less than four times interest and force at the balance sheet date.
As well as corporation tax, Aggreko is net debt should be no more than three times EBITDA: at 31 December subject to indirect taxes such as sales and employment taxes across 2015, these stood at 24 times and 0.9 times respectively.
The Group various tax jurisdictions in the approximately 100 countries in which does not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
The varying nature and complexity of the tax law The maturity prole of the borrowings is detailed in Note 18 in the requires the Group to review its tax positions and make appropriate Annual Report and Accounts.
Net debt amounted to 489 million at judgements at the balance sheet date.
Due to the uncertain nature 31 December 2015 and, at that date, un-drawn committed facilities of the tax environment in many of the countries in which we operate, were 385 million.
it can take some time to settle our tax position.
We therefore create appropriate tax provisions for significant potential uncertain or contentious tax positions and these are principally measured using the most likely outcome method.
Provisions are considered on an individual basis.
As at 31 December 2015 we had tax provisions totalling 61 million, 48 million for direct taxes and 13 million for indirect taxes 2014: 69 million, 54 million for direct taxes and 15 million for indirect taxes.
In addition the recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent upon an estimation of future taxable profits that will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
In the event that actual taxable profits are different, such differences may impact the carrying value of such deferred tax assets in future periods.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 117 Credit risk 1 Accounting policies continued Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk Interest rate risk on amounts due from counterparties.
The Group manages this risk The Groups policy is to manage the exposure to interest rates by limiting the aggregate amounts and their duration depending on by ensuring an appropriate balance of xed and oating rates.
external credit ratings of the relevant counterparty.
In the case of At 31 December 2015, 321 million of the net debt of 489 million financial assets exposed to credit risk, the carrying amount in the was at xed rates of interest resulting in a xed to oating rate net balance sheet, net of any applicable provisions for loss, represents debt ratio of 66:34 2014: 62:38.
The Group monitors its interest rate theamount exposed to credit risk.
exposure on a regular basis by applying forecast interest rates to the Groups forecast net debt prole after taking into account its existing Management of trade receivables hedges.
The Group also calculates the impact on profit and loss of a The management of trade receivables is the responsibility of the dened interest rate shift for all currencies.
Based on the simulations operating units, although they report monthly to Group on debtor performed, the impact on profit or loss of a 100 basis-point days, debtor ageing and significant outstanding debts.
At an shift, after taking into account existing hedges, would be 2 million operating unit level a credit rating is normally established for each 2014: 2 million.
The sensitivity analysis is performed on a monthly customer based on ratings from external agencies.
Where no basis and is reported to the Board.
ratings are available, cash in advance payment terms are often established for new customers.
Credit limits are reviewed on a Foreign exchange risk regular basis.
Some of the contracts undertaken in our Power The Group is subject to currency exposure on the translation of its net Solutions Utility business are substantial, and are in jurisdictions investments in overseas subsidiaries into Sterling.
In order to reduce where payment practices can be unpredictable.
The Group the currency risk arising, the Group uses direct borrowings in the same monitors the risk prole and debtor-position of all such contracts currency as those investments.
Group borrowings are predominantly regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques to mitigate the risks drawn down in the currencies affecting the Group, namely US Dollar, of delayed or non-payment: these include securing advance Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Brazilian Real and Russian Ruble.
payments, bank guarantees and various types of insurance.
On the largest contracts, all such arrangements are approved at Group The Group manages its currency ows to minimise foreign exchange level.
Contracts are reviewed on a case by case basis to determine risk arising on transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the customer and country risk.
uses forward contracts where appropriate in order to hedge net currency ows.
Insurance The positive impact of currency increased our revenues by The Group operates a policy of buying cover against the material 22 million 2014: decreased by 126 million and trading profit risks which the business faces, where it is possible to purchase such by 6 million 2014: decreased by 40 million for the year ended cover on reasonable terms.
Where this is not possible, or where 31 December 2015.
The Group monitors the impact of exchange theriskswould not have a material impact on the Group as a whole, closely and regularly carries out sensitivity analysis.
5% movement in the US Dollar to GBP exchange rate there is an 1 Trading profit represents operating profit before gain on sale of property, plant and equipment.
1 approximate impact of 7 million 2014: 11 million in trading profit interms of translation.
Currency translation also gave rise to a 68 million decrease in reserves as a result of year-on-year movements in the exchange rates 2014: decrease of 9 million.
For every 5% movement in the Dollar, there is an approximate impact in equity of 23 million 2014: 23 million arising from the currency translation of external borrowings which are being used as a net investment hedge.
However, this will be offset by a corresponding movement in the equity of the net investment being hedged.
