OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 159 GLOSSARY CEO MARKET POTENTIAL ESTIMATION PARTICULATE Chief Executive officer.
CALCULATION In general this term relates to visible smoke.
In a market say, oil-rening in the US CFO POWER SOLUTIONS BUSINESS inwhich we are well-established and Chief Financial officer.
The part of our business which operates in havehigh market share, calculate emerging markets.
It has two divisions, Utility ourrentalrevenues a known number CFM which handles very large power contracts, in thesector as a proportion of the total Cubic feet per minute.
A unit of typically for utilities and Industrial which offers economic output of oil reneries in the US volumetric capacity.
solutions from our local service centres to another known number.
Make the assumption that if we can achieve, pp Carbon dioxide.
say, 0.00001 of the economic output of Percentage points.
reneries in the US as revenues, we should, DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE in theory, be able to achieve the same in PROFIT AFTER TAX profit after tax divided by the diluted weighted oil reneries everywhere else.
Therefore if average number of Ordinary Shares ranking profit attributable to equity Shareholders.
we take the total economic output of oil for dividend during the relevant period, reneries in, say China, andthen apply the RENTAL SOLUTIONS BUSINESS i. e. including the impact of share options.
same multiple to thatwhichwe achieve in The part of our business operating in North the US, that tellsushow bigthe potential EPA America, Europe and Australasia, looking after market is.
customers local to our service centres.
Take this same technique, and apply it to about 20 segments in around GHG tCO e 2 30countries, and we have an estimate for Greenhouse gas emissions.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
the marketpotential and a number forour revenues in the sector an accurate number, g kWh Temperature Control and therefore an estimate of ourshare Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
The temperature control eet includes ofmarket potential.
chillers, air conditioners, cooling towers, HFO boilers, heat exchangers, heaters, and MW Heavy fuel oil.
It provides Megawatt a million watts of electricity.
HVAC and moisture control equipment that kVA helps customers minimise losses, manage NOx A thousand volt amperes.
risks and capture windows of economic Oxides of nitrogen.
Applications include seasonal LOAD SHEDDING limitations or catastrophic failure of critical ON-HIRE & OFF-HIRE Load shedding is an intentional power cooling equipment, planned and unplanned When a contract is put out on rent, the shutdown, where electricity is stopped for maintenance, process improvements, equipment is referred to as on-hire.
When a period of time over different parts of the andtemporary structures.
a contract comes off rent, the equipment is distribution region.
They are a last-resort referred to as off-hiring.
The on and off-hire Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 measure to avoid a total blackout of rates are calculated as the number of MW thepowersystem and are a demand response US Federal Government target emission of equipment that either on or off-hire in where the demand forelectricity exceeds the reduction levels.
theperiod, divided bythe MW of equipment supply capability of the network.
on-hire at the beginning of that period.
TRADING PROFIT LWA Operating profit before gain on sale OPERATING PROFIT Sound power level at source.
ALSOKNOWNAS EBIT profit from operations after gain on sale of property, plant and equipment but before interest and tax.
160 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION NOTES Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.
com Board photography George Brooks Print Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
Park is an EMAS certied company and its Environmental Management System is certied to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals arerecycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Galerie Satin, a paper containing 15% recycled bre and 85% virgin bre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Find us online Head ofce Aggreko plc www.
com Watch and download the 2015 report: www.
