Information for shareholders Registrars Our website Our website, amecfw.
com, is the best source of useful, The Companys registrars are Capita Asset Services.
They maintain the shareholder register on our behalf and up-to-date information about Amec Foster Wheeler and its handle all administration related to it.
They should be your first activities, including annual reports, AGM documents and other port of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange can For DRIP, electronic communications and general enquiries be found on our website and you can arrange to receive email Email shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk alerts of such announcements.
com Information made available on our website, or on other websites mentioned in this annual report, is not, and should not be Postal address Capita Asset Services considered as being, part of or incorporated into this annual The Registry 34 Beckenham Road report or our annual report on Form 20-F. Beckenham Financial calendar Kent BR3 4TU The Groups full-year 2014 results and the 2014 annual report United Kingdom were published later than usual as a consequence of the 1 Telephone UK 0871 664 03002 acquisition of Foster Wheeler having completed so close to the Others 44 20 8639 3399 Groups year-end date.
As expected we are now moving back towards the Groups normal financial calendar during 2016 Payment of dividends overseas 1 as follows: Telephone 44 20 8639 3405 Email ips@capita.
co. uk 1 1 Line s open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday Annual General Meeting 27 April 2016 excluding public holidays.
2 Payment of final dividend for 2015 4 July 2016 2 Calls c ost 12 pence per minute plus your phone companys access Half-year 2016 results issued 9 August 2016 charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable International rate.
Payment of interim dividend for 2016 January 2017 Electronic shareholder communication Full-year 2016 results issued March 2017 The majority of our shareholders now receive information from 3 2016 annual report published March 2017 us electronically.
If you have elected to do so and have provided an email address, you will receive an email from us whenever 1 Inf ormation on the Companys AGM is provided in the governance report any new shareholder information is published.
If you have not on page 81. provided an email address, you will be sent a letter that includes details of where the information can be found on our website.
2 Subject to approval by shareholders.
3 O ur annual report will be filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and periodic You can register for electronic shareholder communication results announcements will be furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. and also manage your personal shareholding online at www.
You will need your Investor Code Where they have not yet been determined, the exact dates IVC which can be found on your proxy card, share certificate of the above events will be finalised as the year progresses or dividend tax voucher.
and can be found on our website.
Printed copies of the annual report Share price Shareholders may receive a printed copy of the Companys The latest price of the Companys shares can be found on latest annual report on request by writing to our registered our website and may also be obtained from the London Stock office or by contacting us on 1 908 730 4000.
com in both cases the live share price is updated with a 15-minute delay.
Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Shareholders are advised to be wary if they receive any Dividends unsolicited calls or correspondence making claims of highly We usually announce our interim dividend for the year with our profitable investment opportunities.
Typically these investments half-year results in August and it is paid in the following January.
turn out to be worthless or simply do not exist.
Such We propose our final dividend for the year with the full-year approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and results and, subject to shareholder approval at the subsequent individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
AGM, it is paid in the following July.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or offers to buy Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building shares from a source that is unknown to you, we recommend society account and can also be paid in local currency in that you obtain the name of the person and organisation certain overseas territories.
Shareholders should contact that has contacted you and check whether they are properly the Companys registrars to take advantage of these facilities.
authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority by visiting its website at www.
We have a DRIP to allow shareholders to acquire more of the Companys shares rather than receive cash dividends.
If you think that you have been approached by an unauthorised The DRIP is only available to shareholders in certain countries.
organisation, you are advised to contact the Financial Conduct You can find out more on our website or by contacting the Authoritys consumer helpline on 44 0 800 111 6768 or email Companys registrars.
Amec Foster Wheeler 180 Annual report and accounts 2015
