Other information American Depositary Shares Dividends ADSs and ADRs The Depositary will pay to ADS holders cash dividends or other The Companys ordinary shares are traded in the form of distributions it or the custodian receives on the Companys shares American Depositary Shares ADSs on the NYSE.
Each ADS after deducting its fees and expenses.
ADS holders will receive represents one ordinary share.
these distributions in proportion to the number of the Companys shares the ADSs represent at the record date which will be as The ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts close as practicable to the record date for the Companys ordinary ADRs issued by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas as shares set by the Depositary with respect to the ADSs.
Depositary under a deposit agreement dated 2 October 2014.
The ADRs are issued in respect of ordinary shares deposited The Depositary will usually convert any cash dividend or other with Deutsche Bank AG, as custodian for the Depositary.
cash distribution on the Companys shares or any net proceeds from the sale of any ordinary shares, rights, securities or other ADSs may be held directly by having an ADR a certificate entitlements into US dollars.
Before making a distribution to evidencing a specific number of ADSs registered in your ADS holders, any taxes or other governmental charges that name or by holding ADSs in the Direct Registration System, must be paid, together with the fees and expenses of the or indirectly through a broker or other financial institution.
If you hold ADSs directly, you are an ADS holder.
The Companys ADS enquiries ADSs are issued through the Direct Registration System unless the investor specifically requests to receive certificated ADRs.
All enquiries regarding ADS holder accounts and payment of dividends should be addressed to the Depositary: A registered holder is one whose name appears on the books of the Depositary.
The registered holder is considered the owner of Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services record.
A beneficial holder is one whose holdings are registered American Stock Transfer & Trust Company in a name other than their own, such as the name of a broker, Operations Center bank or nominee.
ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct the Depositary on the exercise of voting rights relative to the Email: db@amstock.
com number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Toll-free number: 866 249 2593 if calling from within the US Role of the Depositary Direct dial: 1 718 921 8124 The Depositary performs the following roles for ADS holders: if calling from outside the US X distributes company circulars and documents in relation to DB Global Direct general meetings of the Company including the AGM US residents may enrol in DB Global Direct, enabling them to X distributes dividends in US dollars invest directly in the Companys ADSs with reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
Registered ADS holders may X facilitates the voting process and the exercise of voting rights reinvest all or a portion of their dividends in the Companys of ADS holders at any general meeting of the Company ADSs through DB Global Direct.
X issues and cancels the Companys ADSs For further information on DB Global Direct, please contact X Deutsche Bank as above or visit www.
acts as the stock transfer agent X records and maintains the register of ADS holders ADS price The latest price of the Companys ADSs can be found on The Company provides to the Depositary all notices of our website and may also be obtained from the NYSEs website, meetings of the Companys shareholders and other reports www.
com in both cases the live ADS price is updated with and communications that are made available to the Companys a 15-minute delay.
The Depositary makes such notices, reports and communications available for inspection by recorded holders of Fees payable by ADS holders ADS holders are required to pay certain service fees to the ADSs and sends voting instruction forms by post to all recorded holders of ADSs.
Investors who are not registered with the Depositary because The Depositary collects its fees for delivery and surrender of their ADRs are held through a nominee account may need to ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering make arrangements with their nominee if they wish to receive ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries such documents and to be able to exercise their vote through acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making the Depositary at general meetings of the Company.
distributions to investors, including payment of dividends by the Company, by deducting those fees from the amounts ADS holders may receive a printed copy of the Companys distributed or by selling a portion of distributable property latest annual report on request by writing to our registered to pay the fees.
The Depositary may collect its annual fee for office or by contacting us on 1 908 730 4000. depositary services by deductions from cash distributions or by directly billing investors or by charging the book-entry system accounts of participants acting from them.
The Depositary may generally refuse to provide fee-attracting services until its fees for those services are paid.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 181 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Share capital Service Fees As permitted by English law, the Company has no authorised To any person to whom ADSs are issued Up to US$0.05 share capital.
The Companys share capital may be increased, per ADS issued or to any person to whom a distribution consolidated or sub-divided by ordinary resolution at a general is made in respect of ADSs pursuant to meeting of the Company.
share dividends or other free distributions As at 8 March 2016, the Companys issued share capital was of shares, bonus distributions, stock 196,565,907 divided into 393,131,813 ordinary shares of 50 splits or other distributions except where pence each.
Of this number, 3,158,310 ordinary shares were converted to cash registered as treasury shares, leaving a balance of 389,973,503 Cancellation of ADSs including in the case Up to US$0.05 ordinary shares with voting rights.
of termination of the deposit agreement per ADS cancelled All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid or were Distribution of cash dividends Up to US$0.05 issued as fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of per ADS held capital may be required by the Company from the holders of those shares.
Distribution of cash entitlements other Up to US$0.05 than cash dividends and or cash per ADS held The Company has neither authorised nor issued any conditional proceeds, including proceeds from the sale share capital and has not issued convertible or exchangeable of rights, securities and other entitlements bonds, warrants or other securities granting rights to the Distribution of ADSs pursuant to exercise Up to US$0.05 Companys shares, other than securities granted to directors, of rights per ADS held senior management and employees under the Companys share-based compensation plans.
Information on these plans Depositary services Up to US$0.05 is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
per ADS held on the applicable As at 8 March 2016, there were 7,419,403 share options record date s outstanding under the Companys UK and International SAYE established by schemes and 5,091,126 shares reserved for share awards under the Depositary the Companys share-based compensation plans in relation to which 1,245,569 shares were held in the Companys Employee ADS holders are also responsible for paying certain fees and Share Trust.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed discretion is expenses incurred by the Depositary such as: given to the Trustee to vote or abstain from voting shares in the Employee Share Trust as it sees fit.
X fees for the transfer and registration of the Companys shares charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the shares in The Articles authorise the Company to purchase its own shares.
the UK A resolution passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2015 provided the directors with the authority to X expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into purchase up 38,884,069 of the Companys ordinary shares US dollars in the market, such authority to expire at the end of the X expenses for cable, telex, fax and electronic transmission Companys next AGM or 1 June 2016, whichever is earlier.
and for delivery of securities A resolution will be proposed at the Companys AGM in April 2016 to extend the authority of the directors to make market Since the Companys ADSs were first issued in November 2014, purchases of up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares a fee of $0.01 per ADS has been levied on the 2014 interim within prescribed limits.
The Company may repurchase shares dividend that was paid in January 2015, on the 2014 final dividend only if the shares are fully paid and out of distributable profits that was paid in July 2015, and on the 2015 interim dividend that or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose was paid in January 2016. of the repurchase.
The UKLA requires that purchase of 15% Fees paid by the Depositary to the Company or more of any class of the Companys share capital must The Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company for a be by way of a tender offer to all shareholders of that class.
portion of certain expenses the Company incurs that are related The Company may reduce its share capital, share to establishment and maintenance of the ADR programme, premium account, capital redemption reserve or any other including, but not limited to, investor relations expenses and undistributable reserve only by special resolution of its expenses associated with being a company listed in the US.
shareholders and having obtained the consent of the High There are limits on the amount of expenses for which the Court of Justice in England and Wales.
Depositary will reimburse the Company.
Further, the Depositary has agreed to reimburse the Company with certain fees payable Markets to the Depositary by ADS holders.
The primary trading market for the Companys ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange, on which they have been listed On 4 December 2015, the Company received US$1.79m since the Companys formation in 1982.
The Company has a approximately 1.2m from the Depositary by way of premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and its ordinary reimbursement of costs incurred during the first year of the shares are admitted to the main market.
The Companys SEDOL ADR programme, which commenced on 2 October 2014. number is 0028262 ISIS Code GB0000282623 and its trading symbol is AMFW.
Amec Foster Wheeler 182 Annual report and accounts 2015 As at 8 March 2016, the Companys total market capitalisation Shareholdings was approximately 1.8bn and it was a constituent of The As at 8 March 2016, 15,417,801 ADSs equivalent to 3.9% of Financial Times Stock Exchange 250 Index FTSE 250. the number of the Companys ordinary shares in issue were outstanding and were held by 1,281 registered holders.
Since November 2014, the Companys ordinary shares have been traded in the form of ADSs on the NYSE.
The Companys As at 8 March 2016, 136,417 ordinary shares were held by 360 CUSIP code is 00167X205 ISIN Code US00167X2053 and registered holders with a registered address in the US.
Since its ticker symbol is AMFW.
certain of the ordinary shares were registered in the names of nominees, the number of shareholders with a registered Share price history address in the US may not be representative of the number of For the periods indicated in the tables below, the highest and beneficial owners of ordinary shares who are resident in the US.
lowest middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and the highest and In accordance with the DTRs of the UKLA, major shareholders lowest sales price of its ADSs on the NYSE were as follows: are considered to be those that have a beneficial interest in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
per ordinary share US$ per ADS On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure and Year ended 31 December High Low High Low Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications received by 2011 12.51 7.41 n a n a the Company from shareholders, shareholdings of 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company were as follows: 2012 11.72 9.23 n a n a 2013 12.07 9.66 n a n a 2014 12.62 7.89 16.97 14.47 Percentage of voting rights held 2015 10.03 3.80 14.83 5.72 As at 31 December 2015 2014 2013 2012 Artisan Partners Source: Factset Limited Partnership n a n a 5.20% n a Mondrian Investment per ordinary share US$ per ADS Partners Limited 5.28% 5.28% 5.15% n a Quarter High Low High Low 1 BlackRock, Inc. 5.63% 5.01% n a 9.97% 2014 First quarter 11.24 10.20 n a n a Legal & General Second quarter 12.62 11.65 n a n a Assurance n a n a n a 3.98% Third quarter 12.45 10.59 n a n a Franklin Templeton Fourth quarter 11.05 7.89 16.97 12.25 Institutional, LLC 5.05% n a n a n a 2015 First quarter 10.03 7.75 14.83 11.75 1 In r esponse to a disclosure request under Section 793 of the Companies Second quarter 9.89 8.16 14.75 12.74 Act 2006, Blackrock, Inc. advised the Company on 19 December 2012 that their holding had reduced to 5.52%.
Third quarter 8.60 6.86 13.29 10.49 Fourth quarter 8.44 3.80 12.75 5.72 There were no notifications received under DTR 5 from the above shareholders between 31 December 2015 and 8 March 2016 1 2016.
The shareholding percentages reflect the companys First quarter 5.01 3.32 7.28 4.57 issued share capital at the time of the notifications.
Source: Factset Each of the Companys ordinary shares, including those held by major shareholders, carries equal voting rights.
The per ordinary share US$ per ADS Company is not, to the best of its knowledge, directly or Month High Low High Low indirectly controlled.
September 2015 8.29 6.86 12.74 10.49 Purchase of ordinary shares October 2015 8.44 6.98 12.75 10.64 During 2015, the Company did not purchase any of its own November 2015 7.72 4.17 11.73 6.27 shares in the market and no purchases of the Companys December 2015 4.53 3.80 6.75 5.72 shares were made by trustees of the Companys employee January 2016 4.51 3.41 6.69 4.92 share schemes.
February 2016 4.35 3.32 6.26 4.57 1 March 2016 5.01 3.79 7.28 5.44 Options and awards made under the Companys employee share schemes that were exercised or vested during 2015 were Source: Factset satisfied by the transfer to the participants of the shares held by the Company in treasury or by the trustee of the relevant 1 Up to and including 8 March 2016. scheme.
Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 183 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Restrictions on voting Articles of Association We summarise below certain provisions of the Articles Under the Articles, a director may not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or proposal in which he or and applicable English law.
The summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 and the she, or any person connected with him or her, has any material interest other than by virtue of that persons interests in the Articles.
Please refer to documents on display on page 191 for information on where copies of the Articles can be obtained.
Companys ordinary shares or other securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to proposals: In the following description, a shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register of members as the holder X giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security of a share or shares.
or indemnity in respect of obligation incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company Principal objects The Articles of Association do not restrict the Companys X giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or objects or purposes.
a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity Directors or guarantee The board Under the Articles, the board shall consist of not less than three X relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the nor more than 15 directors, who shall manage the business and director is entitled to participate as a holder of shares or other affairs of the Company subject to the requirements of English securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities law, the Articles and any resolutions of shareholders.
X concerning any other company in which the director Appointment, retirement and re-election together with any connected person is a shareholder or Directors may be appointed by the board at any time.
Any an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that the director director appointed since the last AGM holds office only until together with any connected person is not interested in 1% the conclusion of the next AGM and then shall be eligible for or more of any class of such other companys equity share election by shareholders.
capital or the voting rights available to its shareholders Under the Articles, all directors retire by rotation and are X relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit in which eligible for re-election every three years.
However, in line with the director will share equally with other employees the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, X relating to any insurance that the Company purchases each of the directors who wishes to continue in office, and or renews for its directors or any group of people is considered eligible by the board, actually offers himself including directors or herself for re-election at every AGM.
Compensation awarded to the executive directors is determined Under the Articles, there are no age limits relating to a persons by the remuneration committee.
qualification to hold office as a director.
A director shall not vote nor be counted in any quorum present at a general meeting of the Companys shareholders in relation to a resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
Borrowing powers The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the borrowings of the Company and its subsidiaries may not exceed two times the adjusted capital and reserves as defined in the Articles.
Shareholding requirements Directors are not required under the Articles to hold any shares of the Company as qualification to act as a director.
Any director who is not a shareholder is entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the shareholders.
Amec Foster Wheeler 184 Annual report and accounts 2015 On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or Rights attaching to ordinary shares In accordance with English law, the Companys ordinary shares by proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by him.
A poll may be demanded by the following: rank equally in all respects.
Dividends X the chairman of the meeting: or The Companys ordinary shares carry the right to receive X not less than three members present or by proxy entitled dividends and distributions that have been declared by to vote: or the Company.
Except in relation to dividends that have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, X a member or members present in person or by proxy and ordinary shareholders have no rights to share in the profits representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of the Company.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or English law requires that dividends are paid only out of profits X a member or members present in person or by proxy and available for distribution, as determined in accordance with holding shares in the Company conferring a right to vote at the UK GAAP and by the Companies Act 2006, and additionally meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been restricts a public company from making a distribution if paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid that would reduce the net assets of the company below the up on all the shares conferring that right aggregate amount of its called-up share capital and certain Unless the directors determine otherwise, if any sum remains undistributable reserves.
unpaid in relation to a members shareholding, that member Dividends are proposed by the directors.
Dividends are is not entitled to vote in relation to that holding.
declared following approval by ordinary resolution of the Rights in a winding up Companys shareholders at a general meeting of the Company.
If the Company is liquidated whether the liquidation is Shareholders may not declare a dividend in excess of the voluntary or court-supervised, the liquidator is obliged to amount proposed by the directors.
The directors may declare realise the assets of the Company to its creditors and, subject and pay interim dividends if they believe that the Companys to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares that financial position justifies such payments.
may be in issue at the time, any surplus would be distributed Any unclaimed dividend may be invested or otherwise applied to the ordinary shareholders according to the amounts paid for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
up on the shares held by them.
Any dividend that remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date Pre-emption rights on which it was declared, or became due for payment, shall be English law provides for statutory pre-emption rights that forfeited and shall revert to the Company.
apply on an allotment of equity securities which include the If authorised by ordinary resolution of the shareholders, the Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible into the directors may offer to shareholders the right to elect to receive Companys ordinary shares.
a dividend, in whole or in part, by way of an allotment of new Pre-emption rights can be disapplied by a special resolution ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
Such a resolution Voting rights was passed at the Companys 2015 annual general meeting Holders of the Companys ordinary shares have the right to on 14 May 2015 and provides the directors with the authority receive notice of, and to attend and vote at, all general meetings to allot equity securities or grant rights to subscribe for or of the Company.
to convert any security to shares up to a nominal amount of 64,158,715, of which up to 9,721,017 could be allotted Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the for cash without offering the shares to existing shareholders, meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any such authority to expire at the end of the Companys next AGM of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
thereafter or 1 June 2016, if earlier.
Resolutions will be proposed Voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a at the Companys forthcoming AGM to extend this authority to poll is duly demanded and held.
Under English law, shareholders the end of the AGM in 2017 or 1 June 2017, whichever is earlier.
of a public company are not permitted to pass resolutions by Variation of rights written consent.
Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into On a show of hands, each shareholder who is present in different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class person at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number can only be changed either: of shares held.
X with the written consent of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class excluding shares held as treasury shares : or X with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class The rights attached to any class of shares are not, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue, deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking equally with them.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 185 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Under the DTRs, persons discharging managerial General meetings An AGM of the Company must be held each calendar year responsibilities primarily directors and some senior executives and their connected persons are required to notify and within a period of six months of the day following the Companys accounting reference date which is 31 December.
the Company in writing of the occurrence of all transactions conducted on their own account in the Companys shares, Otherwise, the directors may call a general meeting whenever or derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to they think fit or where required to do so by shareholders holding those shares within four business days of the day on which at least 10% of the voting rights of the paid-up capital of the the transaction occurred.
Company carrying voting rights excluding shares held as treasury shares.
Mandatory bids The Articles contain no provisions that would have an effect General meetings may be held at such place, date and time of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of as may be decided by the directors.
An AGM must be convened by giving not less than 21 days However, under the UK City Code on Takeovers & Mergers, if an notice.
Other general meetings must also be convened by giving acquisition of the Companys shares increases the aggregate not less than 21 days notice unless shareholder approval has holding of an acquirer and its concert parties to shares carrying been given for such meetings to be convened on giving only 30% or more of the voting rights in the Company, the acquirer 14 days notice such approval has been given by the Companys and, depending on the circumstances, its concert parties, shareholders and is effective until the next AGM when it is would be required except with the consent of the Panel on proposed that it should be renewed.
Takeovers & Mergers to make a cash offer for the remainder of the Companys shares at a price not less than the highest price For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend or vote at a meeting, and how many votes such persons paid for the Companys shares by the acquirer or its concert may cast, the Company must specify in the notice of the parties during the previous 12 months.
Such an offer would also meeting a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for be triggered by any acquisition of shares by a person holding the meeting, by which a person must be entered on the register together with its concert parties shares carrying between in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
30% and 50% of the voting rights in the Company if the effect of such acquisition were to increase that persons percentage No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless of the voting rights.
a quorum is present at the time when the meeting proceeds to business.
Two shareholders present in person or by proxy shall Amendments be a quorum.
Under English law, the Companys shareholders may, by special resolution, alter, delete, substitute, amend or add to the Articles.
The directors may require attendees to submit to searches or put in place such arrangements or restrictions as they think The directors are not authorised to change the Articles.
fit to ensure the safety and security of attendees at a general Material contracts meeting.
Any member, proxy or other person who fails to During the last two years, the Group entered into the following comply with such arrangements or restrictions may be refused material contracts other than contracts entered into in the entry to, or removed from, the general meeting.
ordinary course of business : Limitations on voting and shareholding Acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG Neither English law nor the Articles impose any limitation on Pursuant to an implementation agreement between AMEC and the rights of non-UK residents or foreign shareholders to own Foster Wheeler entered into on 13 February 2014 as amended the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, including the rights by the letter agreement dated 28 March 2014, the deed of to hold or exercise voting rights on those shares or ADSs.
amendment dated 28 May 2014 and the deed of amendment Disclosure of interests in the Companys ordinary shares dated 2 October 2014, together, the Implementation Under the DTRs, a person is required to notify the Company in Agreement, AMEC commenced an offer to acquire all writing within two days of becoming aware that the voting rights outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares on 6 October 2014 which he holds as a shareholder or through his direct or indirect the Offer.
The Offer closed on 13 November 2014 and, upon holding of financial instruments reaches or exceeds 3% of the completion of the Offer, AMEC had acquired 95.3% of the voting rights in the Company and reaches, exceeds or falls outstanding Foster Wheeler AG shares.
Following completion of the Offer, on 8 December 2014, Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company may send a AMEC through its subsidiaries and Foster Wheeler entered notice to any person whom it knows or believes to be interested into a merger agreement, which provided for the squeeze-out in the Companys shares requiring such person to confirm merger of Foster Wheeler AG under Swiss law.
The squeeze-out whether he has such an interest and, if so, the details of the merger was subject to the approval of the merger agreement by interest and any other interest in the Companys shares of at least 90% of the outstanding voting rights of Foster Wheeler which he is aware.
AG, which was received on 19 January 2015.
Amec Foster Wheeler 186 Annual report and accounts 2015 Taxation information for US holders Agreements with Amec Foster Wheeler directors Amec Foster Wheeler entered into a letter of appointment Background A summary is provided below of the material US federal income with Roy Franklin regarding his appointment as a non-executive director of Amec Foster Wheeler plc effective 1 January 2016. tax and UK tax consequences for a US holder defined below of owning or disposing of ordinary shares or ADSs of the A modification, in the form of a side letter, has been made to Ian McHouls service agreement reflecting the remuneration Company.
This section addresses only the tax position of a US holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
arrangements that will apply during his appointment as interim CEO.
This section does not consider the provisions of the IRC known Agreements with Foster Wheeler directors as the Medicare Contribution tax or the tax consequences for Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, AMEC entered into holders subject to other special rules, such as: letters of appointment with Kent Masters and Stephanie Newby X certain financial institutions regarding their appointment as non-executive directors of Amec X Foster Wheeler following the completion of the acquisition.
insurance companies Amec Foster Wheeler also entered into a co-ordination and X dealers and traders in securities who use a mark-to-market settlement agreement with Kent Masters relating to his method of tax accounting termination arrangements as CEO of Foster Wheeler.
X persons holding ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, Credit facility agreement conversion or other integrated transaction or wash sale or In February 2014, the Group entered into a US$2,160m persons entering into a constructive sale with respect to the credit facility agreement with Bank of America Merrill Lynch ordinary shares or ADSs International Limited as facility agent and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi X persons whose functional currency for US federal income UFJ, Ltd. Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland tax purposes is not the US dollar plc as original lenders.
In July 2014, the facility was amended X partnerships or other entities classified as partnerships to increase the financing available to US$2,260m.
The credit for US federal income tax purposes facility comprises three loan facilities totalling US$1,910m and a multi-currency revolving credit facility of US$350m.
X persons liable to the alternative minimum tax In March 2016, the Group cancelled the above mentioned X persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs in individual $2,260m credit facility agreement as amended and restated retirement accounts or other tax-deferred accounts together with the 377m revolving credit facility as amended X persons who have ceased to be US citizens or lawful and restated dated July 2012.
These were replaced with a permanent residents of the US 650m term loan with a 3-year maturity, a 650m loan with X a 5-year maturity and a 400m revolving credit facility with a tax-exempt organisations 5-year maturity between, amongst others, the Company and X persons who acquired the Companys ordinary shares or Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited as facility ADSs pursuant to the exercise of employee stock options agent.
Further details of the terms and conditions of the credit or otherwise in connection with employment: or facility agreement are set out in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
X persons who, directly, indirectly, or by attribution own 10% or more of the Companys voting stock Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders Except where expressly stated to the contrary, this section There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that does not deal with the position of a US holder who is resident restrict or affect the export or import of capital or that affect the or domiciled in the UK for UK tax purposes or who is subject payment of dividends, interest or other payments to non-UK to UK taxation on income or capital gains by virtue of carrying resident holders of the Companys securities, except for certain on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, restrictions imposed from time to time by the UK Treasury agency or permanent establishment to which ordinary shares pursuant to legislation, such as the United Nations Act 1964 or ADSs are attributable, ie those who are referred to below and the Emergency Laws Act 1964, against the government as trading in the UK.
or residents of certain countries.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the Articles, restricting the right of non-UK residents to hold or to exercise voting rights in respect of the Companys ordinary shares, except that where any overseas shareholder has not provided a UK address for the service of notices, the Company is under no obligation to send any notice or other document to an overseas address.
It is, however, the Companys current practice to send every notice or other document to all shareholders regardless of the country recorded in the register of members, with the exception of details of the Companys DRIP, which are not sent to shareholders with recorded addresses in the US or Canada.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 187 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued Taxation of dividends As used herein, a US Holder is a person who, for the purposes of US federal income tax and UK tax, is a beneficial holder of UK taxation Under current UK tax law, the Company is not required ordinary shares or ADSs and is: to withhold tax at source from its dividend payments.
X a citizen or individual resident of the US A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes X a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation and who is not trading in the UK will generally not be liable for created or organised in or under the laws of the US or any UK taxation on dividends received in respect of the Companys political subdivision thereof ADSs or ordinary shares.
X an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax US federal income taxation regardless of its source A US Holder is subject to US federal income tax on the gross X a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over amount of any dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust: or federal income tax purposes.
Distributions in excess of the Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits will X a trust that has validly elected to be treated as a domestic be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holders trust for US federal income tax purposes basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
This section is based on the IRC, its legislative history, Because the Company has not historically maintained, and does not currently maintain, books in accordance with US tax existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and on UK tax laws and the published practice of principles, the Company does not expect to be in a position to determine whether any distribution will be in excess of the HMRC, all as at 25 March 2015.
These laws, and that practice, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Companys current and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
As a result, the This section is further based in part upon the representations of Company expects that the amounts distributed will be reported the Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit to the IRS as dividends.
agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For US federal income tax purposes, Subject to applicable limitations, dividends paid to certain the owner of ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated non-corporate US Holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may as the owner of the underlying shares represented by those be taxable at the favourable tax rates applicable to long-term ADSs.
For UK tax purposes, it is likely that HMRC will also regard capital gain if the dividends constitute qualified dividend holders of ADSs as the beneficial owners of the ordinary shares income.
A US Holder will be eligible for these rates only if it has represented by those ADSs.
held the ordinary shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend Generally, exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for date.
The Company expects that the dividends paid by the ordinary shares, will not be subject to US federal income tax or Company with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will UK taxation on capital gains, although UK stamp duty reserve constitute qualified dividend income.
US Holders should consult tax may arise as described below.
their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject The US Treasury has expressed concerns that parties to to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these whom ADRs are pre-released may be taking actions that are favourable rates.
inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax credits by US Dividends must be included in income when the US Holder, Holders of ADSs.
Such actions would also be inconsistent with in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, the claiming of the preferential rates of tax, described below, actually or constructively receives the dividend, and will not be for qualified dividend income.
Accordingly, the availability eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed of preferential rates of tax for qualified dividend income to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other could be affected by actions taken by parties to whom ADRs US corporations.
For foreign tax credit limitation purposes, are pre-released.
dividends paid by the Company will be income from a source The following discussion assumes that the Company is not, and outside the US.
We outline below the consequences for The amount of any dividend paid in pounds sterling will be US Holders should the Company become a PFIC in the future.
the US dollar value of the sterling payments made, determined Investors should consult their own tax advisers regarding at the spot sterling US dollar exchange rate on the date the the US federal, state, and local, the UK and other tax dividend is included in income for federal income tax purposes, consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into or ADSs of the Company in their particular circumstances.
If the dividend is converted into US dollars on that date, a US Holder should not be required to recognise a foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss from sources within the US.
Amec Foster Wheeler 188 Annual report and accounts 2015 Inheritance and estate taxes Taxation of capital gains UK taxation UK inheritance tax may apply to a deemed transfer which occurs on death, and to gifts to individuals within the seven A US Holder who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and who is not trading in the UK will not generally be liable for years preceding death.
For UK inheritance tax purposes, a transfer of shares at less than full market value may be treated UK taxation on capital gains, or eligible for relief for allowable losses, realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of the as a gift and particular rules apply where the donor reserves or retains some benefit in the shares.
Special UK inheritance tax Companys ordinary shares or ADSs.
A US Holder who is an individual and has temporarily ceased to be a resident in the rules also apply to companies and to trustees of settlements.
UK or has been temporarily treated as non-resident in the UK An individual who is neither domiciled nor deemed domiciled for UK tax purposes for a period of not more than five years in the UK is only chargeable to UK inheritance tax to the extent and who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs the individual owns assets situated in the UK.
Whilst UK tax law during that period may, for the year of assessment when the is unclear as to whether the Companys ADSs are considered individual becomes resident again in the UK, be liable for UK tax to be situated in the UK for inheritance tax purposes, HMRC on capital gains subject to any available exemption or relief, is likely to take the view that they, as well as the Companys notwithstanding the fact that the individual was not treated as ordinary shares, are situated in the UK.
resident in the UK at the time of the sale or other disposal.
However, HMRC considers that the US UK Double Taxation US federal income taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to inheritance tax.
A US Holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares Consequently, a US Holder who is domiciled in the US for or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal the purposes of the US UK Double Taxation Convention and income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between is not for such purposes a UK national will not be subject to the amount realised on the sale or other disposal and the UK inheritance tax on their death or on a lifetime transfer of adjusted tax basis of the securities.
Any capital gain or loss will the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, provided that any be a long-term capital gain or loss where the holder has held applicable US federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the the securities for more than one year.
The capital gain or loss ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business property will generally be income or loss from sources within the US of a permanent establishment of an enterprise situated in the for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility UK or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the performance of of capital losses is subject to limitations.
Where the ordinary shares PFIC status or ADSs have been placed into trust by a settlor, they may Management believes that the Company was not a PFIC be subject to UK inheritance tax, unless, when the trust was for US federal income tax purposes for its taxable year ended created, the settlor was domiciled in the US and was not a 31 December 2015.
Management reviews the Companys PFIC UK national.
status annually and it is subject to change.
A UK national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC, any gain realised UK inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled on the sale or other disposal of the Companys ordinary to a credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of the shares or ADSs would, in general, not be treated as capital Companys ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability gain.
Instead, any gain would be treated as if the US Holder to UK inheritance tax.
Similarly, a US citizen who is domiciled had realised the gain rateably over the period during which the or deemed domiciled in the UK will be entitled to a credit ordinary shares or ADSs were held.
Any gain that is allocated for UK inheritance tax charged in respect of the Companys to the taxable year of the disposal, and to any taxable year ordinary shares or ADSs in computing the liability for US before the Company became a PFIC, would be taxed as ordinary federal estate tax.
Any gain allocated to each other taxable year would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for the taxable year to which the gain was allocated and an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would also apply.
Similar rules would apply to any excess distribution as determined for US federal income tax purposes received on the ordinary shares or ADSs.
The preferential rates for qualified dividend income received by certain non-corporate US Holders would not apply to dividends received in any year in which the Company was a PFIC or in any year immediately following a year in which the Company was a PFIC.
If the Company was to be treated as a PFIC certain elections may be available to US Holders that would result in alternative treatments of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
If the Company were to be treated as a PFIC in any taxable year in which a US Holder held ordinary shares or ADSs, the holder may be required to file annual reports with the IRS containing such information as may be required by the US Treasury Department.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 189 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Other information continued UK legislation does, however, provide for stamp duty or SDRT US information reporting and back-up withholding Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US Holder to be charged at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the with respect to the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be reported shares concerned on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares to the Depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance to the IRS and to the US Holder as may be required under applicable regulations.
service or their nominees or agents for the conversion into ADRs.
In accordance with the deposit agreement, any tax or Unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient, back-up duty payable on deposits of ordinary shares by the Depositary withholding tax may apply to these payments if the US Holder or by the custodian of the Depositary will be typically charged fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
certification of exempt status or fails to comply with applicable certification requirements.
Following litigation on the subject, HMRC has accepted that it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% SDRT charge when new Any back-up withholding tax deducted may be credited against shares are issued to a clearance service or depositary receipt the US Holders US federal income tax liability, and, where the system on the basis that the charge is not compatible with back-up withholding tax exceeds the actual liability, the US EU law.
In HMRCs view, however, the 1.5% SDRT or stamp Holder may obtain a refund by timely filing the appropriate duty charge will continue to apply to transfers of shares into refund claim with the IRS.
a clearance service or depositary receipt system unless they Foreign financial asset reporting are an integral part of the issue of share capital.
HMRCs view US taxpayers that own certain foreign financial assets, including is currently being challenged in further litigation.
debt and equity of foreign entities, with an aggregate value Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on a transfer of in excess of US$50,000 at the end of the taxable year or ordinary shares where no beneficial interest passes, including US$75,000 at any time during the taxable year or, for certain the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary individuals living outside the US and married individuals filing to a holder of the Companys ADSs.
joint returns, certain higher thresholds may be required to file an information report with respect to such assets with their Foreign currency translation US federal income tax returns.
For the periods indicated in the tables below, the average exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar, calculated by The Companys ADSs or ordinary shares constitute foreign using the average of the exchange rates at the close of business financial assets subject to these requirements unless they in London on the last trading day of each month in the period, are held in an account at a financial institution in which case were as follows: the account may still be reportable if maintained by a foreign financial institution.
Year ended 31 December 1 US$ UK stamp duty and SDRT 2011 1.60 UK stamp duty is charged on certain documents, including 2012 1.59 instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary 2013 1.57 shares.
Transfers of ordinary shares are generally subject to UK 2014 1.65 stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration rounded 2015 1.52 up to the nearest 5.
SDRT is charged where there is an unconditional agreement For the periods indicated in the table below, the high and low to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar were as follows: or moneys worth.
SDRT is generally charged at the rate of 0.5% of the agreed consideration rounded up to the nearest penny.
1 US$ The charge to SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already Month High Low paid will be refunded, if within six years of the unconditional September 2015 1.5587 1.5127 agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HMRC October 2015 1.5473 1.5128 and the appropriate stamp duty paid.
November 2015 1.5418 1.5035 Neither stamp duty nor SDRT will be payable on any purchase December 2015 1.5215 1.4738 or transfer of the Companys ADSs, provided that the ADSs and January 2016 1.4743 1.4155 any separate instrument or written agreement to transfer are February 2016 1.4599 1.3868 1 executed and remain at all times outside the UK.
At the close of business in London on 8 March 2016, the sterling US dollar exchange rate was 1 US$1.42.
Amec Foster Wheeler 190 Annual report and accounts 2015 Significant differences between corporate governance NYSE listing standards specify that the nominating corporate practices and NYSE listing standards governance committee is responsible for identifying individuals Background qualified to become members of the board and to recommend Our corporate governance practices are designed to be to the board a set of corporate governance principles.
The compliant with the principles and provisions specified by the UK Code requires companies to have a nominations committee Corporate Governance Code.
Our statement of compliance with but does not require a corporate governance committee.
the principles and provisions of the Code is set out on page 40.
Our nominations committee is concerned only with the membership of the board.
Corporate governance issues We have also adopted the corporate governance requirements are discussed and decided upon at meetings of the board.
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related listing standards of the NYSE, to the extent that they are applicable NYSE listing standards require the audit committee to to a foreign private issuer.
We disclose below the significant comprise at least three independent directors.
Whilst our Audit differences between our corporate governance practices and Committee comprises independent non-executive directors those that are required of US companies that are listed on and currently has four members, it should be noted that only the NYSE.
two members of the committee need be present for there to be a quorum.
Corporate governance guidelines The Code contains a series of principles and provisions.
Compliance certification It is not, however, mandatory for companies to follow these NYSE rules require that the CEO of a US company must principles.
Instead, companies must disclose how they have certify to the NYSE each year that he or she is not aware of applied them and, if applicable, must disclose and explain any violation by the Company of any of the NYSEs corporate the reasons for any areas of non-compliance.
By comparison, governance listing standards.
As the Company is a foreign the NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt private issuer, the CEO is not required to make this certification.
and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
However, the CEO is required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing if any of the Companys executive officers become aware Independence of any non-compliance with those NYSE corporate governance Different tests of independence for directors are applied under listing standards that are applicable to the Company.
the Code and the NYSE listing standards.
The board has carried out an assessment based on the independence requirements Documents on display of the Code and has determined that, in its judgement, each The Company is subject to the information requirements of of the non-executive directors except Kent Masters, on account the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign of his previous employment by Foster Wheeler, is independent private issuers.
In accordance with these requirements, the within the meaning of those requirements.
As the Company is Company files an annual report on Form 20-F and other related a foreign private issuer, the board is not required to take into documents with the SEC.
Certain other announcements made consideration the definition of independence set out in the by the Company are furnished to the SEC on Form 6-K. NYSEs listing standards.
Information submitted by the Company to the SEC may be Committees inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at NYSE listing standards require US companies to have a 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC, 20549.
Information on the nominating corporate governance committee, an audit operation of the public reference room can be obtained by committee and a compensation committee, each composed calling the SECs Office of Investor Education and Advocacy entirely of independent directors.
Each of these committees on 1 800 732 0330. is required to have a written charter which addresses the You may also access information submitted by the Company committees purpose and responsibilities and the compensation to the SEC through the SECs website, www.
gov committee must have sole authority and adequate funding to engage compensation consultants, independent legal counsel and other external advisers.
We have terms of reference for our nominations committee, audit committee and remuneration committee, each of which complies with the requirements of the Code and is available for inspection on our website.
Whilst these terms of reference are generally consistent with the requirements of the NYSE listing rules, they may not address all aspects of those rules.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 191 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Cross reference to Form 20-F Item Form 20F caption Location in this document Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisers Not applicable n a 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable Not applicable n a 3 Key information A Selected financial data Five-year record 202 Foreign currency translation 190 Performance highlights 1 B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable n a C Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable n a D Risk Factors Risk factors 167-171 4 Information on the Company A History and development of the Company History and development 166 Note 24 Acquisitions and disposals 150-153 B Business overview Amec Foster Wheeler at a glance 2-5 Chief Executives statement 7-9 Our business model 12-13 Delivering excellence 14-17 Global market trends 23 Our markets 24-25 Financial review 28-37 C Organisational structure Principal subsidiaries and joint ventures 194-201 D Property, plant and equipment Financial review Property, plant and equipment 36 4A Unresolved staff comments None 5 Operating and financial review and prospects A Operating results Financial review 28-34 Prior year operating results 175-179 B Liquidity and capital resources Financial review Liquidity and capital resources 33-34 Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 136-141 Note 23 Analysis of net debt cash 149 C Research and development, patents, licences etc Financial review Research and development 35 Note 4 Profit before net financing expense 115 continuing operations D Trend information Global market trends 23 Financial review 28-37 Performance measures order book 174 E Off-balance sheet arrangements Financial review Off-balance sheet arrangements 37 Note 25 Commitments Operating lease 154 commitments Note 26 Contingent liabilities 154-155 F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Financial review Contractual obligations 37 G Safe harbor Forward-looking statements 204 6 Directors, senior management and employees A Directors and senior management Conflicts of interest 50 Our board of directors 41-43 B Compensation Directors remuneration report 67-80 Note 27 Related party transactions 155-156 Note 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities 128-132 C Board practices Our board of directors 41-43 Directors remuneration report 67-80 Audit committee 58-62 Remuneration committee 65-66 D Employees Note 6 Staff costs and employee numbers 118 Directors remuneration report 72-78 E Share ownership Note 22 Share capital and reserves 146-148 Share-based payments Note 27 Related party transactions 155-156 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions A Major shareholders Directors report significant arrangements 83 change of control Other information Shareholdings 183 B Related party transactions Note 27 Related party transactions 155-156 C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable n a Amec Foster Wheeler 192 Annual report and accounts 2015 Item Form 20F caption Location in this document Page 8 Financial information A Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements 96-156 and other financial information Report of independent registered public 94 accounting firm Legal proceedings Note 26 Contingent liabilities 154-155 Dividends Financial Review Dividend 31 B Significant changes None n a 9 The offer and listing A Offer and listing details Other information Share price history 183 B Plan of distribution Not applicable n a C Markets Other information Markets 182-183 D Selling shareholders Not applicable n a E Dilution Not applicable n a F Expenses of the issue Not applicable n a 10 Additional information A Share capital Not applicable n a B Memorandum and articles of association Other information Articles of Association 184-186 C Material contracts Other information Material contracts 186-187 D Exchange controls Other information Exchange controls and other 187 limitations affecting security holders E Taxation Other information Taxation information for US 187-190 Holders F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable n a G Statement by experts Not applicable n a H Documents on display Other information Documents on display 191 I Subsidiary information Not applicable n a 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Note 19 Capital and financial risk management 136-141 12 Description of securities other than equity securities A Debt securities Not applicable n a B Warrants and rights Not applicable n a C Other securities Not applicable n a D American depositary shares Other information American Depositary Shares 181-182 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies None n a 14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders None n a and use of proceeds 15 Controls and procedures Accountability Internal controls 57 16A Audit Committee financial expert Audit committee Members 59 16B Code of ethics Leadership Board role and responsibilities 45 16C Principal accountant fees and services Audit committee External audit 61 16D Exemptions from the listing standards Not applicable n a for audit committees 16E Purchase of equity securities Other information Purchase of ordinary shares 183 16F Change in registrants certifying accountant Not applicable n a 16G Corporate governance Other information Significant differences 191 between corporate governance practices and NYSE listing standards 16H Mine safety disclosure Not applicable n a 17 Financial statements Not applicable n a 18 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 96-156 19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 193 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
