Notes to the consolidated accounts 1 Significant accounting policies Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company, which is listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are described in note 2.
Statement of compliance The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Amec Foster Wheeler plc and all of its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year, and the Groups share of the profit after interest and tax and net assets of joint ventures based on the equity method of accounting.
In accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002, the consolidated accounts of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the EU as at 31 December 2015 adopted IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The company has elected to prepare its parent company accounts in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 : these are presented on pages 157 to 165.
From the Groups perspective, there are no applicable differences between adopted IFRS and IFRS as issued by the IASB, and therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Restatement On 13 November 2014 the acquisition date, the Group acquired 95.3 per cent of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG.
Due to the relatively short period of time between the acquisition date and 31 December 2014, management had not finalised its assessment of the fair values of certain of Foster Wheelers assets and liabilities at the time that the 2014 financial statements were completed and as a result the 2014 financial statements reflected the provisional assessment of the fair values as at the acquisition date.
The restatement had no impact on the 2014 income statement.
During 2015, management has completed the fair value assessment and the comparative amounts shown in the Balance Sheet, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity and Cash Flow Statement have been restated to reflect changes made to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, details of which are set out in note 24.
In addition to the above, the acquisition balance sheet as presented on page 151 has been restated to present liabilities of 65m in respect of onerous leases within trade and other payables.
These liabilities had previously been presented within provisions.
As the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG in November 2014 resulted in the Group securing more than 90% of Foster Wheelers issued share capital, the acquisition qualifies for merger relief under section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 from crediting the share premium that arose on the new shares issued in consideration for Foster Wheeler to a share premium account.
The balance sheet as at 31 December has been restated to present excess of the nominal value of the shares issued of 877m as a merger reserve.
Accounting standards adopted in the year There are no IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations effective for the first time this financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective which have not been early adopted by the Group IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets and the new general hedge accounting requirements.
It also carries forward guidance on recognition and derecognition on financial instruments from IAS 39.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective.
Under IFRS 15 an entity recognises revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied.
That is when the control of goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer.
The standard provides far more prescriptive guidance with regards to specific scenarios and requires extensive disclosures.
IFRS 15 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early application permitted.
IFRS 16 Leases replaces the existing guidance in IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases.
The standard introduces a single lessee accounting model, which requires a lessee to recognise: assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest on lease liabilities in the income statement.
The application of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 in the future may have a material impact on the amounts reported and disclosures made in the Groups accounts.
However it is not practical to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 until the Group performs a detailed review.
Other than as described above, there are no other IFRS, IAS amendments or IFRIC interpretations which are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Amec Foster Wheeler 104 Annual report and accounts 2015 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
All calculated numbers, for example earnings per share, are calculated on the underlying numbers to one decimal place precision.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that derivative financial instruments and retirement benefit assets and liabilities are stated at fair value.
The preparation of accounts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Amec Foster Wheeler believe some of these policies require a high level of judgement, and the most critical accounting policies and significant areas of judgement and estimation arise from: X acquisition accounting under IFRS 3 Business Combinations X long-term contracts under IAS 11 Construction Contracts X intangible assets including goodwill under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets X provisions under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets X uncertain tax positions under IAS 12 Income Taxes X defined benefit pension schemes under IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits In addition, judgement has also been applied in the presentation of certain research and development government credits and in presenting the UK conventional power business as a discontinued operation in 2013.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations During 2014, the Group acquired Foster Wheeler.
The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase under IFRS 3.
Determining the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired involved significant judgement and estimates.
This involved the use of valuation models to determine the fair value of the intangible assets acquired.
Inputs to these models include estimates of the future cash flows of Foster Wheeler: the appropriate discount rate to apply to these future cash flows, estimates of the retention rates for key customers and the likelihood of renewal of significant service contracts.
Further information about the assumptions used for calculating provisions and goodwill are documented below.
IAS 11 Construction Contracts A significant amount of the Groups activities is undertaken via long-term contracts.
These contracts are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts which requires estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues.
Management bases its judgements of contract costs and revenues on the latest available information, which includes detailed contract valuations.
In many cases the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term contractual obligations which span more than one reporting period.
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events and often need to be revised as events unfold and uncertainties are resolved.
The estimates of contract costs and revenues are updated regularly and significant changes are highlighted through established internal review procedures.
In particular, the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability of any unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims.
The impact of the changes in accounting estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
Principally, there are two types of long-term contracts being cost reimbursable contracts and fixed price contracts.
Due to the nature of these contracts the significant estimates tend to arise on fixed price contracts rather than cost reimbursable contracts.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 105 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Basis of preparation continued IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IAS 36 Impairment of Assets The Group has a significant amount of intangible assets on its balance sheet.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is capitalised and subject to impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The determination of carrying value involves significant judgements when allocating goodwill to the cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition.
The estimation of the recoverable amounts also requires significant judgements and estimates including the future cash flows of the CGU, terminal growth rates and the appropriate rate at which to discount those cash flows.
See note 12 for further details of the impairment reviews performed during the year.
The carrying amount of the Global Power Group CGU has been reduced to its recoverable amount through recognition of an impairment loss of 308m against goodwill.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is the fair value of the asset at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets When accounting for provisions for litigation and other items the Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known legal claims and actions made by or against the Group.
It carefully assesses the likelihood of success of a claim or action.
Appropriate provisions are made for legal claims or actions against the Group on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of management, are unlikely to succeed.
The Group has a significant asbestos related provision.
Some of the Groups US and UK subsidiaries are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and UK.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with work allegedly performed by the Groups subsidiaries during the 1970s and earlier.
The provision for asbestos is the Groups best estimate of its obligation required to settle claims that is expected to continue up until 2050.
The provision is discounted back to a net present value using a US Treasury yield curve discount rate.
See note 21 for further details of the Groups provisions.
IAS 12 Income Taxes Significant judgement is required in determining liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, in particular those in respect of financing structures.
There is also significant judgement required in assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries but significant judgements are required in relation to the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation and member life expectancy that underpin their valuations.
For Amec Foster Wheeler, these assumptions are important given the relative size of the schemes that remain open for future accrual.
See note 14 for further details of the Groups retirement benefit schemes.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
Discontinued operations include the non-core Built Environment businesses, which were sold during 2007, SPIE, which was sold in 2006, and the UK conventional power business that was discontinued in 2013.
The judgements applied in presenting the UK conventional power business as discontinued are explained in note 1 to the 2013 financial statements.
The cash flows of discontinued operations are fully consolidated within Amec Foster Wheeler up to the date of sale.
The results and other disclosures in respect of discontinued operations are shown in note 9.
Going concern As at 31 December 2015, the group had net debt of 946m and committed and available banking facilities of 442m.
On 2 March 2016 the Group announced the completion of a refinancing of its main debt facilities by entering into a new facility with a syndicate of 20 banks.
The new facility, which has three tranches a three-year 650 million term loan, a five-year 650 million term loan and a five-year 400 million revolving credit facility replaces the Companys existing revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility.
The Group has assessed it will be able to meet expected mandatory interest and repayment of its banking facilities in place.
Amec Foster Wheeler 106 Annual report and accounts 2015 1 Significant accounting policies continued Going concern continued The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and its committed banking facilities.
The Groups policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with the Groups budget and strategic plans.
The directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
If for any reason the Group is unable to continue as a going concern, it could impact the Groups ability to realise assets at their recognised values: in particular goodwill and other intangible assets and to extinguish liabilities in the normal course of business at the amounts stated in the consolidated accounts.
Accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated accounts.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Group and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2015.
Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Generally there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control.
The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate there is a change of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated accounts from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of comprehensive income is attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The considerations made in determining joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
The Groups investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the joint venture since the acquisition date.
The results of the joint ventures are included in the consolidated accounts from the date the joint control commences until the date that it ceases.
The aggregate of the Groups share of profit or loss of a joint venture is shown on the face of the income statement and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the joint venture.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When a Group entity undertakes its activities under joint operations, the Group as a joint operator recognises in relation to its interest in a joint operation: X its assets and liabilities, including its share of any assets and liabilities held jointly X its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation X its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by joint operation X its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 107 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Bid costs Bid costs are expensed as incurred until the Group is appointed as the preferred bidder.
Subsequent to appointment as preferred bidder, bid costs are capitalised and held on the balance sheet provided the award of the contract is virtually certain and it is expected to generate sufficient net cash flow to allow recovery of the bid costs.
Where bid costs are reimbursed at financial close, the proceeds are applied first against the balance of costs included in the balance sheet, with any additional amounts treated as deferred income and released to profit over the period of the contract.
Business combinations and goodwill The purchase method is used to account for all business combinations.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 January 2004 is capitalised and subject to an impairment review, both annually and when there are indications that its carrying value may not be recoverable.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments Cash comprises cash balances and deposits repayable on demand and available within one working day without penalty.
Cash equivalents are other deposits with a maturity period of three months or less from date of acquisition: convertible without an undue period of notice and not subject to a significant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of Amec Foster Wheelers cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
In the consolidated balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.
Deposits with a maturity period of more than three months at inception are classified as bank deposits more than three months.
Development expenditure Expenditure that is directly attributable to the development of wind farm projects is recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate it is probable that the wind farm development will generate future economic benefits in excess of the amounts capitalised and other relevant criteria for capitalising such costs in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets have been met.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when the wind farm development is complete and the asset is available for use.
It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
During the period of development, the asset is reviewed for impairment annually.
Discontinued operations and assets and liabilities held for sale A discontinued operation is a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations that has either been disposed of, abandoned or is part of a plan to dispose of a major line of business or geographic area.
An operation is classified as a discontinued operation in the year that the above criteria are met.
Certain legacy settlements and relevant provision adjustments are allocated to discontinued operations when those settlements and provisions arise from or are directly related to the discontinued operations.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Employee benefits Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value: and the fair value of any plan assets at bid price is deducted.
The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA-rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
A net surplus from a defined benefit plan is recognised on the balance sheet when the asset would be recoverable as a result of an expected future refund after a gradual settlement of plan liabilities.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Amec Foster Wheeler 108 Annual report and accounts 2015 1 Significant accounting policies continued Exceptional items As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, certain items are presented separately as exceptional on the face of the consolidated income statement.
In the opinion of the directors, these exceptional items require separate disclosure by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying performance and to provide consistency with internal management reporting.
Exceptional items may include, but are not restricted to: impairment charges, acquisition-related costs: restructuring costs: gains and losses on the disposal of fixed assets: and gains and losses on the disposal or closure of businesses.
Acquisition-related costs may include transaction costs including external advisory, legal, valuation and other professional fees and attributable internal costs, the amortisation of acquisition-related facility fees, payments to selling shareholders that are accounted for as remuneration and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value.
Subsequent valuation depends on the designation of the instrument.
Cash, bank deposits, borrowings and trade receivables and payables are held at amortised cost.
Bank loans and similar borrowings are recognised initially at fair value i. e. proceeds received net of directly attributable transaction fees.
Interest expense, including transaction fees is recognised over the life of the bank loan using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is determined by reference to market values for similar financial instruments or by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The sale and purchase of derivative financial instruments are non-speculative.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge against the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, any gain or loss on the effective part of the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss on any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires, or is sold, terminated or exercised.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the hedging reserve remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
The cumulative gain or loss in the hedging reserve is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of financial instruments designated as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedge is effective.
The gain or loss of any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of gains and losses recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Foreign currencies The Groups consolidated accounts are presented in Sterling, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the accounts of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
An entitys functional currency reflects the underlying transactions, events and conditions that are relevant to it.
At an individual entity level, transactions in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the day of the transaction.
Entities which have multiple foreign currency transactions apply the average rate for the month as an approximation of the exchange rate on the day of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and any foreign exchange differences arising are recognised in the income statement except those arising on intra-Group balances, settlement of which is neither planned nor probable to occur, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are measured in terms of historical cost and are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the results of entities with a functional currency other than Sterling are translated into Sterling using a monthly average exchange rate.
The net assets of such entities are translated into Sterling at the closing exchange rate.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency net investments and any foreign currency borrowings, or forward contracts used to hedge those investments, are taken to a translation reserve.
They are recycled and recognised as a profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a business.
The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 109 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment The carrying values of all of the Groups assets other than inventories, balances on long-term contracts and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If there are indications of an impairment in the carrying value then the recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying amount.
For goodwill and assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each balance sheet date.
Intangible assets other than goodwill Intangible assets acquired by the Group, which include customer relationships, brands trademarks, order backlog, patents and software, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is its fair value at date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated lives of intangible assets held at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Customer relationships Two to 18 years Brand trademarks Up to 20 years Order backlog Three to five years Patents 15 years Software Three to seven years Other Up to six years Inventories Inventories, including land held for and in the course of development, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Development land and work in progress is included at cost less any losses foreseen in completing and disposing of the development.
Cost includes cost of acquisition and development to date, including directly attributable fees and expenses net of rental and other income attributable to the development.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the lease.
The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease.
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance lease.
Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease costs, including incentives received, are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Net financing expense Net financing expense comprises interest receivable on funds invested, interest payable, pension financing income, the unwinding of discounted balances and foreign exchange gains and losses.
Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, using the effective interest method.
Directly attributable finance costs are capitalised in the cost of purchased and constructed property, plant and equipment, until the relevant assets are brought into operational use.
Amec Foster Wheeler 110 Annual report and accounts 2015 1 Significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment as at 1 January 2004, the date of transition to adopted IFRS, was determined by reference to its fair value at that date.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, with the exception of freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
Reviews are made annually of the estimated remaining lives and residual values of individual assets.
The estimated lives used are: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold land and buildings The shorter of the lease term or 50 years Plant and equipment Mainly three to five years Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation: and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Group has taken internal and external advice in considering known and reasonably likely legal claims and actions made by or against the Group.
These possible but not probable liabilities are disclosed in note 26 as contingent liabilities.
Research and development government credits The Group claims research and development government credits in the UK, US and Canada.
These are judged to have characteristics more akin to grants than income taxes and are offset against the relevant expenditure caption.
Credits are recognised to the extent there is reasonable assurance they will be received which, given the necessary claims processes, can be some time after the original expense is incurred.
Revenue recognition and long term contracts Revenue represents the amount received or receivable for goods and services supplied by the Group to its customers, including the Groups share of revenue from work carried out by jointly controlled operations.
Revenue excludes intra-Group sales and value added tax and other sales taxes.
The Groups revenue is derived principally from service and construction-type contracts.
Contract revenue is recognised over the term of the contract by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of each reporting period.
Revenue from cost reimbursable contracts is based on the services provided, typically represented by man-hours worked, and is measured by reference to agreed charge-out rates or to the estimated total contract revenue.
Flow-through costs on cost reimbursable contracts, typically consisting of materials, equipment or subcontractor services, are included as both contract revenue and contract costs.
Revenue from fixed price contracts is recognised using the  method, measured by reference to physical completion or the ratio of costs incurred to total estimated contract costs.
If the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, as may be the case in the initial stages of completion of the contract, revenue is recognised only to the extent of the costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, the expected amount of the loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
A variation is an instruction by the customer for a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the contract.
Variations are included in contract revenue when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the related adjustment to the contract price can be measured reliably.
A claim is an amount that the contractor seeks to collect from the customer as reimbursement for costs whose inclusion in the contract price is disputed, and may arise from, for example, delays caused by the customer, errors in specification or design and disputed variations in contract work.
Claims are included in contract revenue when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount of the claim can be measured reliably.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 111 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 1 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition and long term contracts continued Incentive payments are additional amounts payable to the contractor if specified performance standards are met or exceeded.
Incentive payments are recognised when the contract is sufficiently far advanced that it is probable that the required performance standards will be met and the amount of the payment can be measured reliably.
Gross amounts due from customers included in trade and other receivables represent the costs incurred plus recognised profits, less provision for recognised losses and progress billings.
Progress billings that have not been settled by customers including retentions related to contracts in progress are included in trade receivables where they are stated after allowance for any doubtful debts.
Trade receivables, which are generally of a short term nature, are recognised and carried at the original invoiced amount less an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Gross amounts due to customers included in trade and other payables represent payments on account received from customers in excess of the gross amounts due from customers and advances.
Advances are amounts received by the customer before the related work is performed.
Share-based payments There are various share-based payment arrangements which allow Amec Foster Wheeler employees to acquire Amec Foster Wheeler shares: these awards are granted by Amec Foster Wheeler.
The fair value of awards granted is recognised as a cost of employment with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the award.
The fair value of the award is measured using a valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest except where non-vesting is due to total shareholder return not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises the sum of the current tax charge and the movement in deferred tax.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable profit is different from accounting profit due to temporary differences between accounting and tax treatments, and due to items that are never taxable or deductible.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity as appropriate.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Separate provisions for interest and penalties are also recorded if appropriate.
Movements in interest and penalty amounts in respect of tax provisions are not included in the tax charge, but are disclosed within profit loss before income tax.
Tax provisions are based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
This involves a significant amount of judgement as tax legislation can be complex and open to different interpretation.
Management uses in-house tax experts, professional firms and previous experience when assessing tax risks.
Where actual tax liabilities differ from the provisions, adjustments are made which can have a material impact on the Groups profits for the year.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences with deferred tax assets being recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjustments made to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient profits will be available.
Assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended that they will be settled on a net basis.
Amec Foster Wheeler 112 Annual report and accounts 2015 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations Amec Foster Wheeler designs, delivers and maintains strategic and complex assets for its customers across the global energy and related sectors.
Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Group Leadership Team for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
Prior to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in November 2014, the Groups continuing operations comprised of four operating segments: Americas, Europe, Growth Regions and Investment Services.
For the short period between its acquisition and the end of 2014, Foster Wheelers results were presented to the Group Leadership Team analysed by its existing operating segments: E&C Services and Global Power Group.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group adopted three new geographical operating segments: Americas: Northern Europe & CIS: and Asia, Middle East, Africa & Southern Europe: with Foster Wheelers E&C Services segment being merged into these segments.
Foster Wheelers Global Power Group continues to be reported as a separate operating segment.
Investment Services also continues to be reported separately.
Details of the services offered by each segment and the end markets in which they operate are given on pages 3 to 5 and 24 to 25.
The Group Leadership Team uses trading profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Trading profit is, therefore, the measure of the segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Trading profit represents profit before net financing expense excluding exceptional items: the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets: and asbestos-related costs net of insurance recoveries.
Trading profit includes the Groups share of the trading profit of joint ventures.
Revenue and results Revenue Profit loss 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m m Americas 2,646 2,184 2,247 161 212 241 Northern Europe and CIS 1,492 1,293 1,227 134 105 93 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 1,050 516 536 68 25 33 Global Power Group 364 53 51 1 Investment Services 15 8 6 14 9 11 5,567 4,054 4,016 428 352 378 Internal revenue 112 61 42 External revenue 5,455 3,993 3,974 1 Corporate costs 54 31 35 2 Trading profit 374 321 343 3 Net financing expense 40 4 11 Adjusted profit before tax 334 317 332 4 Tax on results of joint ventures 10 6 5 324 311 327 5 Intangible amortisation and impairment 444 49 47 5 Exceptional and asbestos-related items 115 107 25 Loss profit before income tax 235 155 255 1 Corporate costs comprise the costs of operating central corporate functions and certain regional overheads.
2 T rading profit is earnings from continuing operations before net financing expense, tax, intangible amortisation and impairment, pre-tax exceptional items and asbestos related items of 334m 2014: 299m: 2013: 315m, but including joint venture trading profit of 40m 2014: 22m: 2013: 28m.
3 Net financing e xpense excludes exceptional and asbestos-related items, but includes Amec Foster Wheelers share of net interest payable of joint ventures.
4 The share of post-tax results of joint ventures is further analysed as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Trading profit 40 22 28 Net financing expense 2 4 9 Tax 10 6 5 28 12 14 5 See note 5 for further details.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 113 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 2 Segmental analysis of continuing operations continued Transactions between reportable segments are conducted on an arms length basis.
Internal revenue arises in the segments as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Americas 12 13 18 Northern Europe and CIS 35 23 17 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 65 24 7 Global Power Group Investment Services 1 112 61 42 Other information Intangible amortisation Share of post-tax results of joint ventures Depreciation and impairment 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m m m m m Americas 1 1 2 9 8 7 46 20 18 Northern Europe and CIS 15 8 7 6 5 3 41 19 17 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 3 2 2 4 2 2 23 6 12 Global Power Group 11 2 4 1 334 4 Investment Services 1 3 3 28 12 14 26 16 12 444 49 47 Geographical origin Revenue Non-current assets 2014 2015 2014 2013 2015 restated 2013 m m m m m m United Kingdom 1,223 1,067 1,112 647 801 326 Canada 741 938 1,104 288 297 188 United States 1,873 1,218 1,070 1,302 1,175 284 Rest of the world 1,618 770 688 1,019 1,442 225 5,455 3,993 3,974 3,256 3,715 1,023 The non-current assets analysed by geography include property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and interests in joint ventures.
Revenue to external customers by region is based on the location of the group subsidiary which made the sale.
Amec Foster Wheeler 114 Annual report and accounts 2015 3 Revenue 2015 2014 2013 m m m Construction contracts 1,045 917 342 Services 4,410 3,076 3,632 5,455 3,993 3,974 The revenue from construction contracts shown above is based on the definition of construction contracts included in IAS 11 and includes revenue from all contracts directly related to the construction of an asset even if Amec Foster Wheelers role is as a service provider, for example project management.
4 Profit before net financing expense continuing operations 2015 2014 2013 m m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 26 16 12 Minimum payments under operating leases 89 87 96 Research and development government credits 15 23 22 There are no material receipts from subleases.
2015 2014 2013 m m m Fees paid to the auditor and its associates: The auditing of the accounts 4.1 3.9 0.3 The auditing of accounts of any subsidiaries of the company 1.4 1.5 1.1 Taxation compliance services 0.9 0.4 0.3 All taxation advisory services other than compliance 0.1 All services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into, or proposed to be entered into, by or on behalf of the company or any of its associates 0.9 6.4 1.6 All other non-audit services 0.2 0.1 0.1 7.5 12.3 3.5 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 115 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items 2015 2014 2013 m m m Continuing operations: Administrative expenses exceptional and asbestos-related items 94 86 18 Administrative expenses intangible amortisation and impairment 444 49 47 538 135 65 Loss on business disposals and closures 1 16 7 Net financing expense 20 5 559 156 72 Taxation credit charge on exceptional and asbestos-related items of continuing operations 18 6 6 Taxation charge on restructuring 16 Taxation credit on intangible amortisation and impairment 27 12 20 45 18 2 Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items of continuing operations 514 138 74 Exceptional items of discontinued operations posttax 1 19 Post-tax amortisation, impairment, exceptional and asbestos-related items 513 157 74 Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items 96 120 47 Post-tax intangible amortisation and impairment 417 37 27 513 157 74 The charge of 444m in respect of intangible amortisation and impairment comprises amortisation of 129m and impairments of 315m.
The goodwill in the Global Power Group business has been written down by 308m and there was a 7m write down on the order backlog intangible asset.
See note 12 for further details.
Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2015 are further analysed as follows: 2015 Loss in Profit loss respect of on business Other Profit on business disposals and Asbestosexceptional disposals closures closures related items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations 1 1 6 120 115 Discontinued operations 1 1 1 Profit loss before tax 1 1 6 120 114 Taxation on exceptional items 18 18 Profit loss after tax 1 1 6 102 96 The pre-tax profit on disposal of 1m relates to costs and movements in indemnity provisions associated with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued.
There was a credit of 5m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and experiential gains of 9m as the liability is reassessed on an annual basis.
These credits were offset by a 7m charge in respect of unwinding the discount and 1m other costs of managing the liability.
Other exceptional items of 120m includes 97m relating to the costs of integrating the Amec and Foster Wheeler businesses, 13m amortisation of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition, a 5m loss incurred following an unauthorised payment made from the Australian business and not expected to be recovered and other exceptional items totalling 5m.
Integration costs includes severance 32m, professional and consultancy fees 11m, costs of rationalisation of agents 8m, property and office rationalisation 27m, and staff costs 11m as well as IT, rebranding and Sarbanes-Oxley Act implementation costs totalling 8m.
Of the 120m of other exceptional items, 72m was paid in cash during the year.
Amec Foster Wheeler 116 Annual report and accounts 2015 5 Amortisation, impairment, exceptional items and asbestos-related items continued Post-tax exceptional and asbestos-related items for 2014 are further analysed as follows: 2014 Profit in Loss on respect of business Other Loss on business disposals and Asbestosexceptional disposals closures closures related items items Total m m m m m m Continuing operations 21 5 16 9 82 107 Discontinued operations 23 23 23 Loss profit before tax 44 5 39 9 82 130 Taxation on exceptional items 5 5 5 10 Loss profit after tax 39 5 34 9 77 120 During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group disposed of its investment in the Lancashire Waste project at a loss of 21m mainly arising from a reverse premium payable on exit.
This combined with additional indemnity provisions and costs of 23m associated with businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued to give a pre-tax loss on disposal of 44m.
This includes a provision 11m in respect of a new claim received in the year related to a contract completed by the DPS business which was sold in 2007.
There was a credit of 5m from the release of a provision no longer required in respect of a business closed in a prior year and classified as continuing.
Other exceptional items of 82m includes transaction costs of 37m relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, 35m costs of integrating the two businesses and 4m of fees associated with the borrowings taken on to fund the acquisition.
Integration costs include consultancy and other costs of identifying cost synergies of 18m which includes associated internal labour, plus 17m costs of achieving cost synergies including 14m redundancy costs.
In addition 6m was incurred in completing the previously announced restructuring into geographic business units.
There was a charge of 8m relating to a change in the discount rate applied to the asbestos liability and 1m in respect of unwinding the discount.
Out of the 82m of other exceptional items 58m was paid in cash during the year.
Post-tax exceptional items for 2013 are further analysed as follows: 2013 Loss in Loss on respect of business Other Loss on business disposals and exceptional disposals closures closures items Total m m m m m Continuing operations 7 7 18 25 Discontinued operations 6 6 6 Loss before tax 6 7 13 18 31 Taxation charge on restructuring 16 16 Taxation on exceptional items 6 6 6 Loss after tax 7 7 40 47 Additional indemnity provisions of 10m and costs in respect of businesses sold in prior years and classified as discontinued were offset by the release of a 5m litigation provision and indemnity provisions no longer required, and give a pre-tax exceptional loss on disposals of 6m.
There were additional litigation provisions of 9m offset by releases of 2m in respect of businesses closed in a prior year and classified as continuing.
Exceptional costs of 18m in continuing operations includes 14m restructuring costs associated with the management reorganisation into geographic business units and transaction costs of 4m which, in line with IFRS 3, are charged to the income statement.
A tax provision of 16m has been established for potential withholding tax following a Group restructuring that resulted in a significant amount of cash being repatriated from foreign subsidiaries.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 117 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 6 Staff costs and employee numbers continuing operations 2015 2014 2013 m m m Wages and salaries 1,857 1,466 1,459 Social security costs 193 100 98 Equity-settled share-based payments note 22 7 8 14 Contributions to defined contribution schemes 42 37 36 Defined benefit pension scheme expense note 14 38 31 32 2,137 1,642 1,639 2015 2014 2013 number number number The average number of people employed was as follows: Americas 15,040 12,365 13,046 Northern Europe and CIS 9,232 7,898 7,216 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 7,086 3,376 3,070 Global Power Group 2,332 322 Investment Services Centre 323 264 240 34,013 24,225 23,572 The average number of people employed in 2014 includes AMEC staff for the full year and Foster Wheeler staff for the period following the acquisition.
Details of directors remuneration are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 67 to 80.
The average number of employees as stated above excludes agency staff.
7 Net financing expense continuing operations 2015 2014 2013 m m m Financial income Interest income on bank deposits 7 3 7 Other interest and similar income 3 5 3 Pension financing income 2 1 Foreign exchange gains 6 1 1 16 11 12 Financial expense Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 51 10 9 Other interest and similar expense 7 4 3 Pension finance expense 2 Foreign exchange losses 7 1 2 Unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision 7 1 74 16 14 Net financing expense 58 5 2 The unwinding of the discount on the asbestos provision of 7m 2014: 1m has been presented separately in the income statement and the amortisation of facility fees of 13m 2014: 4m included within interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts has been presented as an exceptional item.
There were no exceptional items included in net financing expense in the year ended 31 December 2013.
Amec Foster Wheeler 118 Annual report and accounts 2015 8 Income tax continuing operations Income tax arises in respect of the different categories of income and expenses as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Income tax expense on continuing operations before amortisation, exceptionals and asbestos related items 63 67 67 Income tax credit on amortisation 27 12 20 Income tax charge on restructuring 16 Income tax credit charge in respect of other exceptional items 18 6 6 Total income tax expense from continuing operations in the income statement 18 49 69 2015 2014 2013 m m m Current tax Current year 59 72 95 Adjustments in respect of prior years 19 6 26 40 66 69 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 19 13 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3 4 2 22 17 Total income tax expense for continuing operations 18 49 69 During the year, effective from 1 April 2015, the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 21% to 20%.
The rate is reduced to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017, with a further reduction to 18% from 1 April 2020.
These changes were all substantively enacted prior to the end of the year.
Factors affecting the tax expense for the year are explained as follows: 2014 2013 2015 restated restated m m m Loss profit before tax 235 155 255 Less: share of net income from joint ventures 28 12 14 Loss profit before tax from continuing operations excluding joint ventures 263 143 241 Expected income tax expense at UK tax rate 53 31 56 Non-deductible expenses pre-exceptional 7 13 11 Non-deductible expenses exceptional 3 11 Non-deductible impairments 62 Non-taxable income pre-exceptional 2 Benefit from finance structures 12 6 7 Closure of HMRC enquiry into intragroup lending 12 Impact of providing deferred tax on pension surplus at 20.0% 21 Impact of changes in UK tax rate on deferred tax 7 Overseas income and expenses taxed at rates other than UK rate 5 8 26 Utilisation of tax assets not previously recognised 1 6 Recognition of tax assets not previously recognised 3 8 Current year tax assets not recognised 15 10 6 Write-off of previously recognised tax assets 26 28 Other adjustments in respect of prior years 10 10 24 Total income tax expense for the year for continuing operations 18 49 69 During the year HMRCs enquiry into the nature of the intercompany debt payable from the legacy Amec US group to the UK was concluded without tax adjustment.
Accordingly, 12m of risk provision was released in full during the year.
Net income tax liabilities in the Group balance sheet include 105m 2014: 126m relating to uncertain tax positions.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 119 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 8 Income tax continuing operations continued 2015 2014 2013 m m m Tax recognised directly in other comprehensive income Current tax Deferred tax note 15 23 11 21 Tax charge credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income 23 11 21 9 Loss profit for the year from discontinued operations Discontinued operations represent the residual assets and retained obligations in respect of businesses sold in prior years, as well as the UK conventional power business, which was discontinued in 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the post-tax results of discontinued operations are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
The results of the discontinued operations are all attributable to the equity holders of the parent and are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Revenue 13 15 Cost of sales and net operating expenses 6 3 25 Loss before exceptional items and income tax 6 10 10 Attributable tax 1 2 2 5 8 8 Profit loss on disposal 1 23 6 Tax on disposals 4 6 Loss for the year from discontinued operations 4 27 8 The loss before exceptional items and income tax in 2015 represents additional provisions on certain contracts within the UK conventional power business.
The negative revenue of 13m and loss of 10m before exceptional items and income tax in 2014 related to the settlement of final accounts and additional provisions on the UK conventional power contracts.
The loss on disposals of 23m in 2014 relates to additional indemnity provisions and costs associated with businesses sold in prior years.
Net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations The net cash flows attributable to discontinued operations during the year were as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 1 3 12 Net cash flow from investing activities 2 3 2 1 14 Amec Foster Wheeler 120 Annual report and accounts 2015 10 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are shown on the face of the income statement.
The calculation of the average number of shares in issue has been made having deducted the shares held by the trustees of the Employee Share Trust and those held in treasury by the company.
As the Group has reported a basic loss per ordinary share from continuing operations, any potential ordinary shares are anti-dilutive and so excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share.
2015 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average shares Loss shares Earnings shares Earnings Loss number per share Earnings number per share Earnings number per share m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic loss earnings from continuing operations 252 383 66.1 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8 Share options 2 0.2 2 0.4 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.8 4 0.9 Diluted loss earnings from continuing operations 252 383 66.1 109 311 35.1 187 299 62.5 Basic loss from discontinued operations 4 383 1.1 27 302 8.9 8 293 2.7 Share options 2 0.1 2 Employee share and incentive schemes 7 0.2 4 Diluted loss from discontinued operations 4 383 1.1 27 311 8.6 8 299 2.7 Basic and diluted loss profit from continuing operations is calculated as set out below: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Loss profit for the year from continuing operations 253 106 186 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 1 3 1 Basic and diluted loss profit from continuing operations 252 109 187 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 121 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 10 Earnings per share continued In order to appreciate the effects on the reported performance of intangible amortisation and impairment, exceptional and asbestos related items along with the impact of the potential ordinary shares, additional calculations of earnings per share are presented.
2015 2014 2013 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average Loss shares Earnings shares Earnings shares Earnings earnings number per share Earnings number per share Earnings number per share m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic loss earnings from continuing operations 252 383 66.1 109 302 36.1 187 293 63.8 Exceptional and asbestos related items post-tax 97 25.3 101 33.4 47 16.0 Amortisation and impairment post-tax 417 108.9 37 12.3 27 9.2 Basic earnings from continuing operations before impairment, amortisation, exceptional and asbestos related items 262 383 68.1 247 302 81.8 261 293 89.0 Share options 2 0.5 2 0.6 Employee share and incentive schemes 2 0.4 7 1.8 4 1.2 Diluted earnings from continuing operations before impairment, amortisation and exceptional and asbestos related items 262 385 67.7 247 311 79.5 261 299 87.2 Basic loss from discontinued operations 4 383 1.1 27 302 8.9 8 293 2.7 Exceptional items post-tax 1 0.2 19 6.3 Basic loss from discontinued operations before exceptional items 5 383 1.3 8 302 2.6 8 293 2.7 Share options 2 2 Employee share and incentive schemes 2 7 0.1 4 Diluted loss from discontinuing operations before exceptional items 5 385 1.3 8 311 2.5 8 299 2.7 Amec Foster Wheeler 122 Annual report and accounts 2015 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 1 January 2015 restated 78 172 250 Exchange and other movements 3 4 7 Reclassifications 2 5 7 Additions 4 12 16 Disposals 2 4 6 As at 31 December 2015 75 171 246 Depreciation As at 1 January 2015 24 76 100 Exchange and other movements 1 2 3 Provided during the year 7 19 26 Disposals 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2015 29 90 119 Cost As at 1 January 2014 30 95 125 Exchange and other movements 4 1 3 Acquired through business combinations 39 73 112 Additions 6 8 14 Disposals 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2014 restated 78 172 250 Depreciation As at 1 January 2014 17 69 86 Exchange and other movements 2 2 Provided during the year 6 10 16 Disposals 1 3 4 As at 31 December 2014 24 76 100 Net book value As at 31 December 2015 46 81 127 As at 31 December 2014 54 96 150 As at 1 January 2014 13 26 39 31 December 31 December 2014 2015 restated m m The net book value of land and buildings comprised: Freehold 24 29 Short leasehold 22 25 46 54 The carrying value of land and buildings held under finance lease at 31 December 2015 was 5m 2014: 6m.
The amount acquired through business combinations was nil 2014: 6m.
Additions during the year include nil 2014: nil under finance leases.
The balance as at 1 January 2015 has been restated following the finalisation of the purchase price allocation of the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 123 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 12 Intangible assets Customer Brands Order Goodwill relationships trademarks backlog Patents Software Total m m m m m m m Cost As at 1 January 2015 restated 2,551 560 186 137 109 123 3,666 Exchange and other movements 21 1 8 8 4 Additions 1 21 22 Disposals and retirements 31 6 37 Reclassifications 7 7 As at 31 December 2015 2,531 530 194 137 117 145 3,654 Amortisation As at 1 January 2015 restated 35 107 21 14 1 45 223 Exchange and other movements 4 1 1 1 1 Impairment loss 308 7 315 Provided during the year 43 11 43 7 25 129 Disposals and retirements 31 6 37 As at 31 December 2015 339 119 32 65 9 65 629 Cost As at 1 January 2014 792 192 23 9 66 1,082 Exchange and other movements 2 4 1 1 2 4 Acquired through business combinations 1,761 367 162 129 110 5 2,534 Additions 51 51 Disposals and retirements 3 1 1 5 As at 31 December 2014 restated 2,551 560 186 137 109 123 3,666 Amortisation As at 1 January 2014 35 85 19 7 29 175 Exchange and other movements 2 1 3 Provided during the year 23 2 8 1 15 49 Disposals and retirements 3 1 4 As at 31 December 2014 restated 35 107 21 14 1 45 223 Net book value As at 31 December 2015 2,192 411 162 72 108 80 3,025 As at 31 December 2014 restated 2,516 453 165 123 108 78 3,443 As at 1 January 2014 757 107 4 2 37 907 The carrying value of software held under deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases as at 31 December 2015 was 24m 2014: 30m.
Additions during the year include nil 2014: 33m of software held under deferred payment arrangements.
The impairment loss of 315m relates to a 308m impairment of goodwill in relation to the Global Power Group and a 7m impairment of the order backlog intangible asset.
Amec Foster Wheeler 124 Annual report and accounts 2015 12 Intangible assets continued The Group is required to test its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
The review of goodwill for indications of impairment by management is performed at the operating segment level, being the lowest level of cash-generating units CGU monitored for goodwill purposes.
With effect from 1 January 2015, the Group adopted three new geographical operating segments: Americas: Northern Europe and CIS: and Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe: with Foster Wheelers E&C Services segment being merged into these segments.
Goodwill on the legacy AMEC and Foster Wheeler E&C businesses was allocated between these segments on a relative fair value basis.
The table below shows the goodwill allocated to each CGU, post recognition of any impairment losses.
Goodwill Pre-tax 31 December discount rate 2015 2015 m % Americas 1,054 11 Northern Europe and CIS 654 11 Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe 266 11 Global Power Group 218 13 The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections included in the financial budgets approved by the Board for 2016 and pre-tax discount rates as set out in the table above.
For the purposes of the calculation of the recoverable amount, the cash flow projections beyond the budgeted period include no growth in 2017 for the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, and Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe, and 10% growth in the Global Power Group.
For all segments, no growth is included in 2018, 5% growth in 2019, 10% growth in 2020 and 3% growth per annum thereafter.
The long-term growth rates are in line with long-term average growth rates for the regions in which the CGUs operate.
The financial budgets reflect managements judgement of the future cash flows which includes past experience and expectations of future performance.
The most significant assumptions relate to trading profit margin and the conversion of trading profit into cash cash conversion.
Revenue is underpinned by a secure order book for each CGU and the order book remains strong at 6.6 billion as at 31 December 2015 2014: 6.3 billion.
The selection of trading profit margin takes into account the margins being generated on contracts in progress and managements view of the margin on orders received, and is consistent with Amec Foster Wheelers growth strategy.
The cash conversion reflects past experience and current contract mix.
The value-in-use has been compared to the carrying value for each CGU and no impairment is required nor has been charged in respect of the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, or Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGUs.
This has been included in administrative expenses in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of the Global Power Group CGU is 396m.
The impairment loss arose due to difficult market conditions and a reduction in forecast future profits of the Global Power Group.
Any adverse changes in the key assumptions would increase this impairment loss.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in respect of these CGUs in order to review the impact of changes in key assumptions.
The value-in-use calculations referred to above showed headroom of 400m in the Americas CGU and 307m in the Northern Europe and CIS CGU.
However, applying zero terminal growth would eliminate the headroom and would result in an impairment to goodwill of 40m in the Americas CGU and 27m in the Northern Europe and CIS CGU.
A zero growth rate would not result in an impairment in the Asia, Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe CGU.
Consideration was also given to the impact of a 10% decrease in volume, a 1% decrease in margin, or a 1% increase in discount rate, in each case holding other assumptions constant.
This did not identify any impairments in these CGUs.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 125 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 13 Interests in joint ventures Interests in joint ventures Details in aggregate of the Groups interests in all joint ventures that are accounted for using the equity method are as follows: m Net book value As at 1 January 2015 122 Exchange and other movements 2 Disposal of businesses 9 Additions 1 Reclassifications 2 Total comprehensive income 28 Dividends received 42 As at 31 December 2015 104 As at 1 January 2014 52 Acquired through business combinations 73 Disposal of businesses 2 Additions 1 Total comprehensive income 12 Dividends received 14 As at 31 December 2014 122 Group companies are listed on pages 194 to 201.
Details of material joint ventures Petropower Energia Limitada The Group has an 85% interest in Petropower Energia Limitada, a joint venture alongside the state-owned oil company of the Republic of Chile, which began commercial operation in November 1998.
The Groups interest is accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements.
Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial statements are set out below: Summarised Balance Sheet of Petropower Energia Limitada: 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 47 51 Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of 19,583,000 2014: 14,607,000 35 41 Current liabilities 30 29 Non-current liabilities 12 13 Equity 40 50 Summarised Income Statement of Petropower Energia Limitada: 2015 m Revenue 43 Cost of sales 20 Administrative expenses 2 Profit before tax 21 Income tax expense 5 Profit for the year 16 Although the Group has an 85% interest in Petropower Energia Limitada, the profits are split according to the joint venture agreement.
In the year the profit after tax received by the Group from Petropower Energia Limitada was 11m 2014: 2m, the carrying value of the investment was 53m 2014: 54m.
In 2014 the income received from Petropower Energia Limitada was immaterial as the Group only acquired the 85% interest following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler on 13 November 2014.
Amec Foster Wheeler 126 Annual report and accounts 2015 13 Interests in joint ventures continued Nuclear Management Partners Limited The Group has a 36% interest in Nuclear Management Partners Limited.
Summarised financial information of the joint venture, based on its IFRS financial statements are set out below: Summarised Balance Sheet of Nuclear Management Partners Limited: 2015 2014 m m Non-current assets 10 30 Current assets, including cash and cash equivalents of 4,635,000 2014: 2,449,000 8 8 Current liabilities 6 5 Non-current liabilities 3 Equity 12 30 Groups carrying value of investment 4 11 Summarised Income Statement of Nuclear Management Partners Limited: 2015 2014 m m Revenue 6 6 Cost of sales 6 6 Administrative expenses 2 3 Share of post tax results of associate 40 27 Profit before tax 38 24 Income tax expense Profit for the year 38 24 Groups share of profit for the year 14 9 PPP service concessions Details of the PPP service concessions are as follows: Financial Equity Concession Net equity close stake period invested Transport A13 Thames Gateway 2000 25% 30 years Incheon Bridge, Korea 2005 23% 30 years 12m Power Petropower Energa Limitada, Chile 1998 85% 20 years 53m Interests in joint operations The Group does not hold any individual material interests in joint operations in either the current or prior year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 127 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities Defined benefit schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for UK and overseas employees.
There are three principal defined benefit schemes.
In the UK these are the AMEC Staff pension scheme, which also has an associated Executive top-up scheme and the Foster Wheeler Pension Plan and in the US, The Foster Wheeler Inc.
The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are closed to new members but remain open to further accrual.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is a hybrid benefit arrangement with distinct defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section is closed to new members and further accrual, but the defined contribution section remains open to further accrual.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan is also closed to new members and further accrual.
Contributions by the Group into defined contribution schemes are disclosed in note 6.
The AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes are average salary plans for UK employees.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan was a final salary pension plan.
All three schemes require contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
These schemes are governed by the employment laws of the UK.
The level of benefits provided depends on the members length of service and salary each year.
Once the benefits are in payment, the pension is adjusted each year relative to the UKs Retail Prices Index for the AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan is adjusted each year relative to the UKs Consumer Price Index.
Each scheme is established under trust law and are governed by a Board of Trustees, which consists of employers and employees representatives.
In addition, the AMEC Staff and Executive pension schemes have two independent trustees.
The Board of Trustees is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the definition of the investment strategy.
Every three years, the Board of Trustees is required by legislation to review the level of funding in the pension plans.
The Board of Trustees decides the contribution levels in consultation with the employers based on the results of this triennial review.
In the event that there is a funding deficit, the Trustees and the employer will agree a recovery plan to eliminate that deficit over as short a period as is reasonably affordable.
Due to the nature of the liabilities, the pension plans are exposed to inflation, interest rate risk and changes in the life expectancy for pensioners.
As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equities, the Group is also exposed to equity market risk.
The valuations used have been based on the final valuations of the AMEC Staff pension scheme and AMEC Executive pension scheme as at 31 March 2014.
The Foster Wheeler Pension Plans most recent valuation took place as at 1 April 2013.
These schemes have been updated by the schemes actuaries for the requirement to assess the present value of the liabilities of the schemes as at 31 December 2015.
The assets of the schemes are stated at their aggregate market value as at 31 December 2015.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan provides pension benefits to certain full-time employees.
Under the pension plan, retirement benefits are primarily a function of both years of service and level of compensation.
The pension plan is closed to new members and further accrual.
Following an employee consultation exercise at the end of 2015, the Company has now confirmed its intention to close its UK Staff and Executive defined benefit pension schemes to future accrual from 1 April 2016 and replace them with a new defined contribution arrangement.
Subject to obtaining the necessary Trustee approval, all legacy defined contribution plans in the UK will be merged into the new arrangement by 30 June 2016.
Amec Foster Wheeler 128 Annual report and accounts 2015 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The principal assumptions made by the actuaries are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 % % % The AMEC Staff pension scheme and the AMEC Executive pension scheme Rate of discount 3.9 3.6 4.6 Rate of inflation 3.0 3.0 3.3 Rate of increase in salaries 3.0 3.0 3.3 Rate of increase in pensions in payment service before after 1 January 2008 2.8 1.9 2.9 2.0 3.2 2.2 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan Rate of discount 3.9 3.7 Rate of inflation 3.0 3.0 Rate of increase in salaries 2.0 1.9 Rate of increase in pensions in payment service before after 5 April 2005, nil before 6 April 1997 2.0 1.5 1.1 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan Rate of discount 3.9 3.6 Rate of inflation 2.3 2.5 Rate of increase in salaries N A N A Rate of increase in pensions in payment N A N A In addition the Group has a number of smaller overseas schemes.
For the three principal defined benefit schemes, the assumed life expectancy is as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2015 2014 2014 2013 2013 Male Female Male Female Male Female years years years years years years The AMEC Staff pension scheme and the AMEC Executive pension scheme Member aged 65 current life expectancy 22.4 24.6 22.5 24.6 22.9 24.4 Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 24.1 26.5 24.2 26.5 24.7 26.3 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan Member aged 65 current life expectancy 23.4 23.2 23.5 23.2 N A N A Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 25.1 25.1 25.3 25.1 N A N A The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan Member aged 65 current life expectancy 21.1 23.1 21.6 23.7 N A N A Member aged 45 life expectancy at 65 23.2 25.2 23.2 25.4 N A N A The assumptions used by the actuaries are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions, which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 129 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 m m m Retirement benefit assets 231 102 102 Retirement benefit liabilities 168 188 62 Retirement benefit net asset liability 63 86 40 The retirement benefit net asset liability is analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 m m m The AMEC Staff and the AMEC Executive pension scheme 184 65 102 The Foster Wheeler Pension Plan 47 37 The Foster Wheeler Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan 59 57 Other smaller pension schemes 109 131 62 63 86 40 The retirement benefit liabilities of 168m 2014: 188m: 2013: 62m reflect primarily the deficits on the smaller overseas schemes.
The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are as follows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2013 per cent per cent per cent Equities 34.6 35.4 41.3 Bonds including gilts 51.8 52.6 47.6 Property 8.7 8.4 8.8 Other 4.9 3.6 2.3 100.0 100.0 100.0 The equities and bonds as listed above are predominantly quoted investments.
There is a small investment in privately held pooled fund investments and the property other investments are unquoted.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Current service cost, past service cost and administrative expenses 36 33 33 Interest cost 104 84 72 Interest income 102 86 73 Total amount recognised in the income statement and included within staff costs note 6 38 31 32 Settlement gain 3 3 Total amount recognised in the income statement 35 28 32 The total amount is recognised in the income statement as follows: Cost of sales 22 20 19 Administrative expenses 11 10 14 Net financing expense income 2 2 1 Total amount recognised in the income statement 35 28 32 Amec Foster Wheeler 130 Annual report and accounts 2015 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit liability are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m As at 1 January 2,931 1,743 1,652 Exchange and other movements 1 3 14 Acquired through business combinations 898 Current and past service cost 32 29 31 Interest cost 104 84 72 Plan participants contributions 11 12 12 Actuarial gains charges arising from changes in financial assumptions and experience adjustments 177 278 58 Actuarial gains charges arising from changes in demographic assumptions 14 19 7 Settlements 31 12 4 Benefits paid 141 85 71 Reclassifications 3 As at 31 December 2,717 2,931 1,743 The defined benefit obligation can be allocated to the plans participants as follows: 2015 2014 2013 % % % Active plan participants 20.5 22.0 25.2 Deferred plan participants 28.4 31.3 33.8 Retirees 51.1 46.7 41.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16 years.
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m As at 1 January 2,845 1,783 1,645 Exchange and other movements 3 8 Acquired through business combinations 826 Interest income 102 86 73 Actuarial losses gains 41 201 105 Employer contributions 36 32 29 Plan participants contributions 11 12 12 Administrative expenses 4 4 2 Settlements 28 9 Benefits paid 141 85 71 As at 31 December 2,780 2,845 1,783 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 131 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 14 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued Defined benefit schemes continued The movement in the scheme net asset liability during the year is as follows: 2015 2014 2013 m m m Scheme net liability asset as at 1 January 86 40 7 Exchange and other movements 1 6 Acquired through business combinations 72 Total charge as per note 6 38 31 32 Employer contributions 36 32 29 Settlements 3 3 4 Actuarial gains losses recognised in other comprehensive income 150 58 40 Reclassifications 3 Scheme net asset liability as at 31 December 63 86 40 The impact on the defined benefit obligation of the principal pension schemes of changes in the most significant assumptions as at 31 December 2015 is shown below: The AMEC Staff The Foster Wheeler and the Inc.
Salaried AMEC Executive The Foster Wheeler Employees pension schemes Pension Plan Pension Plan m m m Discount rate -10 bps 29 9 2 10 bps 29 9 2 Inflation -10 bps 27 4 10 bps 27 4 Salary increase -10 bps 2 1 10 bps 2 1 Mortality 1 year 53 12 9 - 1 year 53 12 9 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a method that extrapolates the impact on the defined benefit obligation of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring as at 31 December 2015.
The defined benefit obligations of the other benefit schemes are significantly lower than those of the principal defined benefit schemes.
Sensitivity analysis of reasonable changes in the key assumptions as at 31 December did not indicate any significant changes to the defined benefit obligations of those schemes.
Expected benefit payments from the defined benefit plans in future years are as follows: m Year 1 139 Year 2 142 Year 3 145 Year 4 147 Year 5 150 Next five years 793 1,516 The Group expects to contribute 36m to its defined benefit pension schemes in 2016.
This includes special contributions of 6m.
Amec Foster Wheeler 132 Annual report and accounts 2015 15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 17 15 10 9 Intangible assets 4 14 226 264 Retirement benefits 43 67 43 38 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 2 Provisions 144 130 Employee share schemes 1 Other items 12 28 29 37 Tax losses carried forward 30 42 Tax credits carried forward 2 1 Deferred tax assets liabilities 254 298 310 350 Offset of deferred tax assets and liabilities relating to income tax levied by the same taxation authority 204 242 204 242 Net deferred tax assets liabilities 50 56 106 108 Recognised As at Exchange in other As at 1 January and other Recognised comprehensive 31 December 2015 movements Reclassifications in income income 2015 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 6 1 7 Intangible assets 250 6 1 35 222 Retirement benefits 29 2 5 26 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Provisions 130 1 12 1 144 Employee share schemes 1 1 Other items 9 1 1 9 1 17 Tax losses carried forward 42 1 1 11 1 30 Tax credits carried forward 1 1 2 52 3 22 23 56 Recognised As at Exchange in other As at 1 January and other Recognised comprehensive 31 December 2014 movements Acquisitions in income income 2014 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 13 11 4 6 Intangible assets 33 3 222 8 250 Retirement benefits 12 35 5 11 29 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Provisions 46 2 84 2 130 Employee share schemes 3 2 1 Other items 5 6 2 9 Tax losses carried forward 3 28 11 42 Tax credits carried forward 1 1 15 1 94 17 11 52 The deferred tax credit of 22m 2014: 17m recognised in income consists of a credit of 22m 2014: 16m relating to continuing operations and a nil credit 2014: 1m in respect of discontinued operations.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 133 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 15 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Factors affecting the tax charge in future years There are a number of factors that may affect the Groups future tax charge including the resolution of open issues with tax authorities, corporate acquisitions and disposals, the use of brought-forward losses and changes in tax legislation and tax rates.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Deductible temporary differences 322 326 Tax losses 128 121 450 447 During the year the Group withdrew claims made to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to offset German tax losses of approximately 79m against UK taxable profits.
This follows a further change to HMRCs view of the conditions that need to be satisfied for a valid claim, based on a ruling in the Court of Justice of the European Union.
The point at issue concerns the date on which there is certainty that the losses could not be utilised in the country in which they originated.
HMRCs position was that it would be necessary to litigate in order to pursue the claims.
As the net UK tax benefit of the claims was no more than 10m, the decision to withdraw the claim was taken on the basis that there was no longer clear legal precedent on the point at issue and the costs of pursuing the claim would be substantial, with no certainty of success.
As at 31 December 2015 the expiry dates of unrecognised deferred tax assets carried forward are as follows: Deductible temporary Tax losses differences Total m m m Expiring within 5 years 3 37 40 Expiring within 6-10 years 10 80 90 Expiring within 11-20 years 46 46 Unlimited 69 205 274 128 322 450 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise these assets.
Unrecognised deferred tax liabilities No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of 1,323m 2014: 1,440m of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is not probable that such differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings is estimated to be 28m 2014: 29m.
16 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 13 14 13 14 Amec Foster Wheeler 134 Annual report and accounts 2015 17 Current trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2014 2015 restated m m Amounts expected to be recovered within one year Gross amounts due from customers 552 542 Trade receivables 717 758 Amounts owed by joint ventures 13 10 Other receivables 63 60 Prepayments and accrued income 72 76 Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor note 21 14 13 1,431 1,459 Amounts expected to be recovered after more than one year Gross amounts due from customers 2 Trade receivables 7 5 Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 1 Other receivables 14 4 24 10 1,455 1,469 Trade receivables expected to be recovered within one year include retentions of 34m 2014: 47m relating to contracts in progress.
Trade receivables expected to be recovered after more than one year include retentions of 7m 2014: 4m net of 1m impairment 2014: nil relating to contracts in progress.
The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses for all long-term contracts in progress for continuing businesses at the balance sheet date was 6,428m.
Trade receivables, amounts owed by joint ventures and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
18 Current trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2014 2015 restated m m Amounts expected to be settled within one year Trade payables 584 543 Gross amounts due to customers 328 361 Other taxation and social security costs 50 42 Other payables 225 190 Accruals 198 235 1,385 1,371 Amounts expected to be settled after more than one year Trade payables 1 2 Gross amounts due to customers 5 5 Other taxation and social security costs 17 19 Other payables 47 40 Accruals 4 1 74 67 1,459 1,438 Gross amounts due to customers include advances received of 5m 2014: nil.
Trade payables, other payables and accruals are classified as other financial liabilities.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 135 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management Capital management The objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it has a strong financial position from which to grow the business and to maximise shareholder value.
The appropriate capital structure for the Group comprises of a mix of debt and equity.
The mix is determined by considering business profile and strategy, financial policies and availability and cost of funding.
Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group is currently in a net debt position.
The long-term net debt is targeted to be no more than two times trading profit.
The Group may exceed this operating parameter should the business profile require it.
However, it is expected that any increases would be temporary given the net operational cash flows of the Group.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had committed banking facilities of 1,768m 2014: 1,863m.
This consists of a 27m project debt and a 377m multi-currency revolving facility that was taken out on 18 July 2012.
The facility is committed for five years and is available for general corporate purposes.
The Group has additional facilities totalling $2,010m 1,363m.
This comprises of the following: X $830m 563m bridge facility maturing August 2016 with a further six month extension at the Companys option X $830m 563m term loan maturing in equal instalments in 2017, 2018 and 2019 X $350m 237m revolving credit facility maturing May 2016 As at 31 December 2015, 1,264m 2014: 1,267m of the loans and facilities were utilised by way of debt and 62m 2014: 156m was utilised by way of Letter of Credit.
As at 31 December 2015, the undrawn portion of the Groups committed facilities was 442m.
In November 2014, as part of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler AG, the Group issued 85 million of ordinary shares.
This increased share capital by 42m and generated a share premium of 877m, which is recorded on the balance sheet within the merger reserve.
On 1 March 2016, the Group entered into a new syndicated facility comprising of three tranches: a three-year 650m term loan, a five-year 650m term loan and a five-year 400m revolving credit facility.
This new facility replaces the companys existing 377m revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility of $2.26bn.
Financial risk management The principal financial risks to which the Group is exposed are: foreign currency exchange risk: funding and liquidity risk: counterparty credit risk: and interest rate risk.
The board has approved policies for the management of these risks which are reviewed annually.
The Groups treasury department manages funding, liquidity, credit risk and risks arising from movements in interest and foreign currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board, most recently in December 2015.
The treasury department does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
Amec Foster Wheeler 136 Annual report and accounts 2015 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Foreign currency exchange risk The Group publishes its consolidated accounts in Sterling.
The majority of the Groups trading income is denominated in the local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base.
Where commercial contracts are undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such exposure becomes certain or highly probable.
This is achieved through the use of forward currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options.
There are currently no material transactional exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged.
The Group has no reason to believe that any outstanding forward contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
A significant portion of the Groups earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies.
Such overseas profits are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year.
There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on Group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Group has various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US Dollars, Canadian Dollars and Euros.
With the introduction of the acquisition facilities detailed above the Group hedges translation exposure, wherever possible, by matching the currency of its borrowing either directly or via derivatives to the currency of its net assets and future free cash flow.
As a result, the Group has designated a series of derivatives and financial instruments as hedging instruments in net investment hedge relationships.
In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the Group may from time to time enter into additional net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks.
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of transactions entered into to manage the cash flow exposures of its borrowings.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swap contracts are held to manage the cash flow exposures of a portion of borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and are designated as cash flow hedges.
Based on the Groups net debt as at 31 December 2015, if Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, the Groups net debt would increase by 46m 2014: 44m.
This represents a 130m increase in foreign currency borrowings 2014: 134m, a 50m increase in derivative assets designated as cash flow hedges of Group borrowings 2014: 47m and a 34m increase in foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 2014: 43m.
If Sterling were to weaken against all other currencies by 10%, then the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps, other than those designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings, as at 31 December 2015 would decrease by 51m 2014: 57m.
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency interest rate swaps would be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve or translation reserve.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk cash flow hedges The Group looks to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising on foreign currency borrowings and where contracts are awarded in, or involve costs in, non-local currency.
Forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are used for this purpose and are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of forward contracts and swaps designated as cash flow hedges are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Non current assets cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 105 105 6 Total non current assets 105 105 6 Current assets cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 57 15 1 Current assets cash flow hedges of foreign currency borrowings 328 318 8 1 Total current assets 385 333 9 1 Current liabilities cash flow hedges of contracts in foreign currencies 191 44 9 1 Total current liabilities 191 44 9 1 681 482 6 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 137 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management continued There was no charge for ineffectiveness recognised in either 2015 or 2014.
A net foreign exchange loss for the year of 2m was recognised in the hedging reserve as a result of fair value movements on derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedging instruments 1m and amounts recycled to the income statement in line with underlying cash flows 1m.
Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk fair value through income statement Certain forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign exchange swaps are not designated as cash flow hedges and changes in their fair value are recognised through the income statement.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of these forward contracts and swaps are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Derivative financial instruments Current assets 241 229 5 2 Current liabilities 388 422 5 12 629 651 10 Hedging of foreign currency exchange risk net investment hedges The Group has forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as hedges of the net investments in core subsidiaries in Canada, the US and Europe.
The notional contract amount, carrying amount and fair values of swaps designated as net investment hedges are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Notional Notional Carrying Carrying contract contract amount and amount and amount amount fair value fair value m m m m Derivative financial instruments Non current assets 105 105 12 2 Current assets 111 318 2 8 Current liabilities 168 7 384 423 7 10 A net foreign exchange loss for the year of 3m 2014: 4m was recognised in the translation reserve in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts, currency interest rate swaps and borrowings designated as net investment hedging instruments.
Other financial derivative assets and liabilities The Group has other financial derivative assets of nil 2014: 1m and financial derivative liabilities of 4m 2014: 6m.
The following tables indicate the periods in which the cash flows associated with the derivative financial instruments are expected to occur and the periods in which they are expected to impact profit or loss: 2015 Carrying Expected 12 months 1 to 2 2 to 5 amount cash flows or less years years m m m m m Derivative financial instruments Assets 34 948 726 12 210 Liabilities 25 963 739 16 208 9 1,911 1,465 28 418 2014 Carrying Expected 12 months 1 to 2 2 to 5 amount cash flows or less years years m m m m m Derivative financial instruments Assets 14 1,090 877 2 211 Liabilities 19 648 361 102 185 5 1,738 1,238 104 396 Amec Foster Wheeler 138 Annual report and accounts 2015 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Funding and liquidity risk The Groups policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with the Groups budget and strategic plans.
The Group will finance operations and growth from its existing cash resources and the 442m undrawn portion of the Groups committed banking facilities as at 31 December 2015.
The requirement to enter into additional external facilities has been kept under review during the year.
This includes discussions with the Groups main relationship banks to ensure additional bilateral lending capacity is available.
Appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for bank guarantees and letters of credit.
Counterparty credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-payment by either its customers or the counterparties of its financial instruments.
The effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a key component of the Groups risk management activities.
The maximum credit risk exposure on derivatives at 31 December 2015 was 35m, being the total net debit fair values per derivative counterparty on forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
The Group performs a Credit Value Adjustment CVA and Debit Value Adjustment DVA analysis to establish the credit risk inherent in the closing derivative portfolio.
As at 31 December 2015, the result of this adjustment has no impact on the Groups income statement.
In 2014, a similar analysis of a 60 basis point deterioration in the credit quality of the Groups derivative counterparties had nil impact on the Groups income statement.
Credit risks arising from treasury activities are managed by a central treasury function in accordance with the board approved treasury policy.
The objective of the policy is to diversify and minimise the Groups exposure to credit risk from its treasury activities by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with a diversified range of 25 to 30 mainstream banks and with each counterparty up to a pre-approved limit.
These limits are set at prudent levels by the board and are based primarily on publicly available credit ratings of counterparties.
Credit ratings are monitored continually by the Group treasury department.
The maximum credit risk exposure on cash and cash equivalents and bank deposits more than three months at 31 December 2015 was 363m 2014: 516m.
The Group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global basis to avoid an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender review process and is addressed initially through contract payment terms.
Where appropriate, payment security is sought.
Credit control practices are applied thereafter during the project execution phase.
A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
The ageing of trade receivables at the year-end was: Gross Gross receivables Impairment receivables Impairment 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2015 2014 2014 m m m m Not past due 357 402 Past due 0 to 30 days 216 163 Past due 31 to 120 days 90 3 99 Past due 121 to 365 days 40 18 47 6 More than one year 88 86 100 93 791 107 811 99 The above analysis excludes retentions relating to contracts in progress of 34m 2014: 47m expected to be recovered within one year and 7m 2014: 4m net of 1m impairment 2014: nil expected to be recovered after one year.
Net receivables as at 31 December 2015 include 2m 2014: 7m in respect of amounts overdue by more than one year.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 139 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Counterparty credit risk continued The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2015 2014 m m As at 1 January 99 16 Exchange movements 1 Increase in impairment allowance 23 86 Decrease in impairment allowance 16 3 As at 31 December 107 99 Based on past experience, the Group believes that no material impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due.
Trade receivable exposures are typically with large companies and government-backed organisations and the credit ratings of these organisations are monitored.
Credit risks are minimised through the use of letters of credit, parent company guarantees, insurance instruments and forward funding where achievable.
The Groups most significant customer in 2015 accounted for around 8% 2014: 8% of continuing revenues, and around 2% 2014: 4% of current trade and other receivables.
The revenue was generated in both the Americas and AMEASE.
Interest rate risk The 377m multi-currency revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage.
The $830m 563m bridge facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin which increases over time.
The $830m 563m term loan is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin depending on leverage.
The $350m 237m revolving credit facility is subject to an interest rate of LIBOR plus a margin.
The 35m 26m project debt is subject to an interest rate of EURIBOR plus a margin.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on cash and borrowings.
Cash is viewed as temporary with any longer term surplus used to repay credit facilities.
When required the Group uses interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to meet its objective of protecting borrowing costs within parameters set by the Board.
The Groups policy is to keep between 30% and 70% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
Movements in the fair value of interest rates swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps that are designated as cash flow hedges of the Groups borrowings resulting from changes in market interest rates are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve with the fair value recorded in the balance sheet.
At 31 December 2015, after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, approximately 28% of the Groups borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest 2014: 23%.
The year-end position was below the lower threshold due to the ongoing refinancing activity in 2015.
This will be rectified in Q1 2016 following the completion of the refinancing activity.
Based on the Groups gross borrowings as at 31 December 2015, if interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points in all currencies then the annual net interest charge would increase by 9m 2014: 9m.
A decrease in interest rates by 100 basis points in all currencies would have an equal but opposite effect.
Amec Foster Wheeler 140 Annual report and accounts 2015 19 Capital and financial risk management continued Interest rate risk contractual maturity and effective interest rates In respect of interest-earning financial assets and interest-bearing financial liabilities, the following table indicates their effective interest rates at the balance sheet date and the periods in which they mature: 2015 Effective Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over interest rate Total 1 year years years 5 years per cent m m m m m Bank deposits more than three months 0.47 23 14 4 5 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 3.00 340 340 Bank loans 3.28 1,264 679 192 386 7 Finance leases 6.84 59 4 18 24 13 Derivatives classified as bank loans 14 8 6 946 321 206 399 20 2014 Effective Less than 1 to 2 2 to 5 Over interest rate Total 1 year years years 5 years per cent m m m m m Bank deposits more than three months 0.80 21 18 2 1 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 1.24 495 495 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 9 5 2 2 Bank loans 1.49 1,267 706 5 545 11 Finance leases 6.54 61 9 9 26 17 803 197 10 568 28 Interest payments of 16m are expected to be paid within one year, 15m between one and two years, 16m between two and five years and nil over five years.
Group borrowing The Group had no overdrafts as at the end of 2015 or 2014.
The bank loans are denominated in Sterling and US Dollars 2014: Sterling and US Dollars.
All covenants attached to borrowings have been complied with throughout the current and prior years.
Fair values Fair values are determined using observable market prices level 2 as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as follows: X The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate X The fair value of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting estimated future cash flows based on the terms and maturity of each contract and using market rates All derivative fair values are verified by comparison to valuations provided by the derivative counterparty banks.
There are no material credit valuation adjustments CVA or debit valuation adjustments DVA required on the derivatives outstanding at 31 December 2015.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 141 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 20 Other non-current receivables and payables Other non-current receivables 2014 2015 restated m m Asbestos related insurance recovery debtor note 21 104 108 Indemnities receivable 16 13 Insurance receivables 4 4 Lease incentives 17 28 Other non-current receivables 4 14 145 167 Other non-current payables 2014 2015 restated m m Deferred consideration on acquisition 2 Unfavourable leases 84 65 Lease incentives 8 7 Other payables 20 26 Other post employment benefits 9 11 121 111 21 Provisions Obligations AsbestosProject and relating to Property related environmental disposed related litigation litigation businesses provisions Other Total m m m m m m As at 1 January 2015 restated 400 217 86 19 34 756 Exchange and other movements 18 6 1 1 2 22 Reclassification 1 3 2 2 2 Transfer out to trade payables 47 2 2 47 Utilised 35 22 2 4 1 64 Provided 1 10 12 3 7 33 Released 9 7 19 3 38 Change in discount rate 5 5 Unwinding of discount 7 7 As at 31 December 2015 378 154 78 19 35 664 The balance as at 1 January 2015 has been restated following the finalisation of the purchase price allocation of the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Amec Foster Wheeler 142 Annual report and accounts 2015 21 Provisions continued Asbestos-related litigation Certain of the Companys subsidiaries in the US and the UK are defendants in numerous asbestos-related lawsuits and out-of-court informal claims pending in the US and the UK.
Plaintiffs claim damages for personal injury alleged to have arisen from exposure to asbestos primarily in connection with equipment allegedly manufactured by certain of our subsidiaries during the 1970s or earlier.
We expect that these subsidiaries will be named as defendants in additional and or similar suits and that new claims will be filed in the future.
Whilst some of these claims have been and are expected to be made in the UK, the overwhelming majority have been and are expected to be made in the US.
We assumed the majority of our asbestos-related liabilities when we acquired Foster Wheeler in November 2014.
Management worked with independent asbestos valuation experts, to measure the asbestos-related liabilities assumed.
Asbestos-related liabilities recognised by the Group include estimates of indemnity amounts and defence costs expected to be incurred in each year in the period to 2050, beyond which time management expects that there will no longer be a significant number of open claims.
Managements estimates were based on the following information and or assumptions: the number of open claims, the forecasted number of future claims, the estimated average cost per claim by disease type mesothelioma, lung cancer and non-malignancies, claim filings which result in no monetary payments the zero pay rate, as well as other factors.
Over the last several years, certain of our subsidiaries have entered into settlement agreements calling for insurers to make lump-sum payments, as well as payments over time, for use by our subsidiaries to fund asbestos-related indemnity and defence costs, and, in certain cases, for reimbursement for portions of out-of-pocket costs incurred.
Asbestos-related insurance recoveries under executed settlement agreements are recognised in trade and other receivables together with our best estimate of actual and probable insurance recoveries relating to our liability for pending and estimated future asbestos claims in the period to 2050.
Our actual insurance recoveries may be limited by future insolvencies among our insurers.
We do not recognise insurance recoveries due from currently insolvent insurers unless they are subject to court-approved settlement in liquidation proceedings.
We have discounted the expected future cash flows with respect to the asbestos-related liabilities and the expected insurance recoveries using discount rates determined by reference to appropriate risk-free market interest rates.
Asbestos-related liabilities and assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet were as follows: 2015 2014 US UK Total US UK Total m m m m m m Asbestos-related provision Gross provision 432 56 488 454 57 511 Effect of discounting 74 74 76 76 1 Net provision 358 56 414 378 57 435 Insurance recoveries Gross recoveries 68 54 122 71 54 125 Effect of discounting 4 4 4 4 Net recoveries 64 54 118 67 54 121 Net asbestos-related liabilities 294 2 296 311 3 314 1 The net asbe stos provision of 414m 2014: 435m is made up of 378m included in provisions 2014: 400m and 36m 2014: 35m in respect of asbestos provisions included in trade and other payables.
Estimation of asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries is subject to a number of uncertainties that may result in significant changes in the current estimates.
Among these are uncertainties as to the ultimate number and type of claims filed, the amounts of claim costs, the impact of bankruptcies of other companies with asbestos claims, uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, as well as potential legislative changes.
Fluctuations in market interest rates could cause significant changes in the discounted amount of the asbestos-related liabilities and insurance recoveries.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 143 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 21 Provisions continued Project litigation As described in note 26, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts.
Management has taken internal and external legal advice in considering known or reasonably likely legal claims and actions by and against the Group.
Where a known or likely claim or action is identified, management carefully assesses the likelihood of success of the claim or action.
Generally, a provision is recognised only in respect of those claims or actions that management considers are probable of success.
Additionally, however, the Group recognises provisions for known or likely claims against an acquired business if, at the acquisition date, it is possible that the claim or action will be successful and its amount can be reliably estimated.
Provision is made for managements best estimate of the future legal costs to be incurred in defending each claim or action and of the likely settlement costs and or damages to be awarded for those claims and actions that management considers are likely to be successful.
Due to the inherent commercial, legal and technical uncertainties underlying the estimation of our project claims, the amounts ultimately paid or realised by the Group could differ materially from the amounts, if any, that are recognised in the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2015, there were two significant ongoing disputes.
Both of these disputes involve Foster Wheeler and were ongoing at the acquisition date.
Accordingly, in measuring Foster Wheelers identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date, management established provisions in respect of these disputes and made appropriate reductions to the carrying amount of the related receivables.
Power Plant Arbitration US Foster Wheeler has been involved in arbitration arising from its role in the construction of a power plant in West Virginia, US.
Foster Wheeler contracted with its client, Longview Power LLC Longview, the owner of the power plant, to supply the steam generation equipment.
Separate contracts existed between Longview and Siemens Energy, Inc. Siemens for the supply of the turbine, electricity generator and other plant equipment and with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc. Kvaerner for the erection of the plant.
Beginning in 2011, various claims and counterclaims were made between Foster Wheeler, Kvaerner, Siemens and Longview.
In February 2014, Foster Wheeler reached a partial settlement with Longview.
In December 2014, various settlement agreements were entered into involving the parties, leaving the claims between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner the only claims to be resolved.
Kvaerners total claims against Foster Wheeler amounted to approximately US$190m in relation to compensation for alleged delays, disruptions, inefficiencies and extra work associated with the construction of the plant allegedly caused by Foster Wheelers performance under its steam generation equipment supply contract.
Foster Wheeler claimed approximately US$26m from Kvaerner in relation to claims for extra work, delays, scope disputes, and improperly assessed delay liquidated damages, as well as the cost to perform certain ongoing rehabilitation work on the steam generation equipment due to erection failures by Kvaerner.
Pursuant to the settlement agreements reached in December 2014, Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner exchanged parent guarantees, securing their respective claims against each other.
Foster Wheelers parent guarantee was capped at US$58m.
The arbitration hearing of the dispute between Foster Wheeler and Kvaerner, conducted by the American Arbitration Association, occurred in early 2015.
In October 2015, the three-arbitrator tribunal rejected Foster Wheelers claims in their entirety and awarded Kvaerner US$74m, including interest and arbitration costs.
Kvaerner commenced an action in New York state court to confirm the award.
We opposed the action, seeking an order to vacate the award in whole or in part on various grounds.
In early March 2016, the parties settled their dispute.
We are to pay Kvaerner US$70m in full and final settlement of the claims.
The parties will exchange releases and the court action will be dismissed.
Refinery Project Arbitration India In November 2012, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection of unpaid invoices arising from services performed on a reimbursable basis in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India.
Our client rejected the claims and has submitted counterclaims totalling approximately 70 billion Indian rupees approximately 740m for damages, including claims for revenue loss and loss of tax benefits due to delay in the execution of the project.
Our client has also withheld payment of our invoices on account of delay liquidated damages.
We strongly dispute our clients claims.
Any liability for delay liquidated damages is capped under the contract at a specified percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to approximately 12m, an amount already retained by our client.
Moreover, the contract also excludes liability for special damages and consequential damages, including lost profits or product, and contains an overall cap on liability for claims in the aggregate of up to a specified percentage of the contract value, currently equivalent to approximately 29m.
Amec Foster Wheeler 144 Annual report and accounts 2015 21 Provisions continued Refinery Project Arbitration India continued An arbitration panel was formed in 2013 and divided the parties claims and counterclaims into two tracks.
A number of hearings were held on the Track 1 claims during 2014.
A first partial award was made to Amec Foster Wheeler in March 2014, but our client has petitioned the Delhi court for its annulment, which petition is still pending.
In September 2015, the panel issued a further partial award on the Track 1 claims, awarding Amec Foster Wheeler approximately 54m on its invoice claims and dismissing our clients counterclaim allocated to the Track 1 proceedings.
In February 2016, our client petitioned the Delhi court to set aside this award as well.
The hearing on the Track 2 claims, which include our clients main counterclaims, was held in February 2015.
The panels decision on these remaining claims is likewise pending.
Limited further proceedings in the arbitration remain pending with respect to continuing invoice claim amounts in the Track 1 proceedings as well as for interest and the costs of arbitration.
We will continue to defend strenuously the claims made by our client and pursue the collection of unpaid invoices and enforcement of the awards made in our favour.
As the project is nearing completion but still remained in execution as of the end of 2015, the unpaid amount that we are seeking to collect has increased to the equivalent of approximately 56m and may increase further should our client continue to withhold amounts from our invoices.
Management have made appropriate allowances against these receivables.
Environmental risks Certain of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, in particular the US and the EU, have environmental laws under which current and past owners or operators of property may be jointly and severally liable for the costs of removal or remediation of toxic or hazardous substances on or under their property, regardless of whether such materials were released in violation of law and whether the operator or owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such substances.
Largely as a consequence of the acquisition of Foster Wheeler, the Group currently owns and operates, or owned and operated, industrial facilities.
It is likely that, as a result of the Groups current or former operations, hazardous substances have affected the property on which those facilities are or were situated.
The Group have also received and may continue to receive claims pursuant to indemnity obligations from the present owners of facilities we have transferred, which claims may require us to incur costs for investigation and or remediation.
As at 31 December 2015, the Group held provisions totalling 44m 2014: 33m for the estimated future environmental clean-up costs in relation to industrial facilities that it no longer operates.
Whilst the timing of the related cash flows is typically uncertain, the Group expects that certain of its remediation obligations may continue for up to 60 years.
Indemnities and retained obligations As described in note 26, the Group agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
As at 31 December 2015, we recognised indemnity provisions totalling 78m 2014: 86m.
Indemnity provisions principally relate to the indemnification of the purchasers of SPIE in 2006, and the Built Environment and other peripheral businesses that were sold in 2007.
During 2015, the Group recognised additional indemnity provisions of 12m in relation to businesses sold in previous years and released provisions of 19m that were no longer required following settlement of the underlying issues.
Property-related provisions Property-related provisions related to dilapidations of leasehold buildings.
Other provisions Other provisions include 7m 2014: 2m in respect of the Groups legal and constructive obligations to fund loss-making joint ventures and to meet its share of certain of their obligations, and insurance provisions of 28m 2014: 28m relating to the potential liabilities in the Groups captive insurance entity and provisions in relation to risks associated with insurance claims.
These potential liabilities and risks relate predominantly to industrial disease of former employees.
These are expected to unwind over the next 20 years.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 145 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 22 Share capital and reserves Movements in share capital and reserves are shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on pages 99 to 101.
Share capital The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
All the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.
To the companys knowledge and belief, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company or on voting rights between holders of shares.
The movement in issued share capital during the year was as follows: Number m As at 1 January 2014 303,822,854 152 Issued during the year 85,052,989 42 As at 31 December 2014 388,875,843 194 Issued during the year 4,255,970 3 As at 31 December 2015 393,131,813 197 Reserves As at 1 January 2015, there were 5,431,314 shares held in treasury 2014: 6,186,965, during the year 2,273,004 shares were transferred to share scheme participants 2014: 755,651 leaving a balance held in treasury as at 31 December 2015 of 3,158,310 2014: 5,431,314.
35m 2014: 57m has been deducted from equity in respect of these shares.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the accounts of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities and the cumulative net change in the fair value of instruments that hedge the companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries, that have arisen since 1 January 2004, being the date of transition to adopted IFRS.
Share-based payments Offers are made periodically in certain countries under the UK and International Savings-related Share Option Schemes which are open to all employees in those countries who meet minimum service criteria.
Grants of share options are made to participating employees that entitle them to buy shares in the company normally after three years at up to 20% discount to the market price of the shares at the time of offer.
In the US, to conform with the relevant tax rules, options are granted at a maximum discount of 15% to the share price at the time of grant and are normally exercisable after two years.
Under the new Long-Term Incentive Plan, annual awards are made to directors and selected senior employees of nil-cost options or restricted shares.
Below board level awards are split between a performance based element half of which is based on a total shareholder return related performance condition and the other half on an earnings per share related performance condition and a non-performance element.
Awards are made in the form of nil-cost options other than in certain countries where they are made in the form of restricted shares.
Awards to Executive Directors are as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 67 to 80.
Under the Performance Share Plan, annual awards were made to directors and selected senior employees of restricted shares that are subject to both market and non-market based conditions calculated over a three-year period.
Under the Restricted Share Plan, awards were made to selected employees as restricted shares which vest in full after three years provided the employee has remained in continuous employment.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheelers Compensation and Executive Development Committee administered the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan for Foster Wheelers employees, non-employee directors and third-party service providers.
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of AMEC shares were granted by AMEC in replacement of Foster Wheeler awards and the terms of those replacement awards are equivalent in all material respects to the terms of the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
All employees of Foster Wheeler and its subsidiaries and or affiliates, its non-employee directors, and certain of its third-party service providers were eligible to participate in the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
As at the date of acquisition, only Foster Wheeler options, Foster Wheeler RSUs and Foster Wheeler PRSUs were outstanding under the Foster Wheeler Omnibus Plan.
The share-based payment arrangements operated by the Group are predominantly equity settled and, other than in defined good leaver circumstances, require participants to be still in employment with the Group at the time of vesting.
Our current practice is to satisfy awards vesting or options being exercised under the executive plans with market-purchased shares held in the Amec Foster Wheeler Employee Share Trust and to satisfy Sharesave options being exercised by the transfer of shares held in treasury.
Amec Foster Wheeler 146 Annual report and accounts 2015 22 Share capital and reserves continued Share-based payments continued The number and weighted average exercise price of share options under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average exercise price Number of exercise price Number of 2015 options 2014 options pence 2015 pence 2014 Outstanding on 1 January 819 7,711,995 794 6,691,883 Lapsed cancelled 850 1,920,215 822 777,995 Exercised 675 2,295,911 777 765,267 Granted 683 4,674,510 874 2,563,374 Outstanding on 31 December 775 8,170,379 819 7,711,995 Exercisable on 31 December 863 373,627 902 200,948 Options were exercised on a regular basis during the year and the average share price for the year was 780 pence 2014: 1,102 pence.
Options outstanding on 31 December 2015 have weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining remaining contractual life Number of contractual life Number of 2015 options 2014 options years 2015 years 2014 600.00 pence to 699.99 pence 3.0 3,965,570 2,391,513 700.00 pence to 799.99 pence 2.0 467,796 800.00 pence to 899.99 pence 1.3 2,710,501 1.1 3,807,935 Over 900.00 pence 1,026,512 0.2 1,512,547 8,170,379 7,711,995 The numbers of shares held under the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Share Plan are as follows: Number of Number of shares shares 2015 2014 As at 1 January 6,717,237 4,194,248 Lapsed 1,361,021 1,110,559 Vested 1,674,001 250,328 Granted 2,510,707 3,883,876 As at 31 December 6,192,922 6,717,237 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 147 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 22 Share capital and reserves continued Share-based payments continued The fair value of services received in return for share options granted and shares awarded are measured by reference to the fair value of those instruments.
For grants in either the current or preceding years, the pricing models used and inputs on a weighted average basis where appropriate into those models are as follows: Foster Long-Term Wheeler Savings-related Share Option Scheme Incentive Plan Performance Share Plan Restricted Share Plan Omnibus Black-Scholes model Monte Carlo model Monte Carlo model Monte Carlo model plan 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Weighted average fair value at measurement date 149p 198p 217p 789p 1,006p 948p 949p 960p 1,027p Weighted average share price at measurement date 769p 1,014p 1,061p 938p 1,105p 1,060p 1,082p 1,070p 1,081p Exercise price 683p 874p 866p n a n a n a n a n a n a Expected share price volatility 28% 27% 27% 27% 26% 28% n a n a n a Option life 3.3 3.3 3.3 2.7 3.1 2.8 2.7 2.7 n a years years years years years years years years Expected dividend yield 3.6% 3.5% 4.0% n a n a n a 3.5% 3.0% 3.5% Risk-free interest rate 1.2% 1.0% 1.0% n a n a n a n a n a n a Comparator share price volatility n a n a n a 32% 32% 33% n a n a n a Correlation between two companies in comparator group n a n a n a 40% 50% 50% n a n a n a The expected share price volatility is based on the historical volatility of the companys share price.
The performance conditions attaching to the new Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Performance Share Plan involve a comparison of the total shareholder return of the company with that of its comparators and achievement of targeted earnings per share growth.
The former is a market based test and as such is incorporated into the grant date fair value of the award.
There are no performance conditions attached to the Restricted Share Plan.
Prior to the acquisition, Foster Wheeler had issued shares awards to employees, non-employee directors and certain third parties under the Foster Wheeler AG Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Under the terms of the Implementation Agreement, equivalent awards of Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted in replacement of these Foster Wheeler awards.
On acquisition awards of 2,400,766 Amec Foster Wheeler shares were granted.
There are no performance conditions attached to these awards.
Dividends The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 14.2 pence per share, which will absorb an estimated 54m of equity.
Subject to approval, it will be paid on 4 July 2016 to shareholders on the register of members on 27 May 2016.
This dividend has not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences for the company.
This final dividend together with the interim dividend of 14.8 pence 2014: 14.8 pence: 2013: 13.5 pence per share results in a total dividend for the year of 29.0 pence per share 2014: 43.3 pence: 2013: 42.0 pence.
Dividend cover for 2015 is 2.3 times 2014: 1.8 times based on adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations.
As announced in November 2015, it is the current intention of the Board that ordinary dividends in 2016 will be approximately half that declared in 2014, with approximately one-third paid at the interim, and two-thirds as a final dividend.
2015 2014 2013 m m m Dividends charged to reserves and paid Interim dividend in respect of 2014 of 14.8 pence 2014: interim dividend in respect of 2013 of 13.5 pence: 2013: interim dividend in respect of 2012 of 11.7 pence per share 56 40 36 Final dividend in respect of 2014 of 28.5 pence 2014: final dividend in respect of 2013 of 28.5 pence: 2013: final dividend in respect of 2013 of 24.8 pence per share 111 84 72 167 124 108 The amount waived by trustees of the Employee Share Trust in respect of the interim and final dividends was 1m 2014: 1m: 2013: 1m.
Amec Foster Wheeler 148 Annual report and accounts 2015 23 Analysis of net debt cash As at Exchange and As at 1 January other non-cash 31 December 2015 Cash flow movements 2015 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 377 46 24 307 Bank deposits less than three months 118 85 33 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 495 131 24 340 Bank overdrafts Cash and cash equivalents 495 131 24 340 Bank deposits more than three months 21 2 23 Bank loans 1,267 64 61 1,264 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 9 3 12 Finance leases 61 11 9 59 Derivatives classified as net debt 12 26 14 Net debt as at the end of the year 803 63 80 946 As at Exchange and As at 1 January other non-cash 31 December 2014 Acquisition Cash flow movements 2014 m m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 153 239 9 6 377 Bank deposits less than three months 79 29 10 118 Cash and cash equivalents excluding bank overdrafts 232 268 1 6 495 Bank overdrafts 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 223 268 10 6 495 Bank deposits more than three months 18 3 21 Bank loans 120 39 1,102 6 1,267 Fees capitalised against bank facilities 13 4 9 Finance leases 32 4 33 61 Net cash debt as at the end of the year 121 197 1,072 49 803 The fair value of bank loans is 1,264m 2014: 1,268m compared to a carrying value of 1,264m 2014: 1,267m.
The fair value of finance leases is 59m 2014: 66m compared to a carrying value of 59m 2014: 61m.
Cash and cash equivalents as at 31 December 2015 includes 47m 2014: 60m that is held in countries from which prior approval is required to transfer funds abroad.
There are restrictions on the use of 9m 2014: 7m of cash held on behalf of joint venture arrangements and 17m 2014: 28m held on behalf of customers and collateral against bank guarantees.
In addition, there are restrictions on the use of a further 16m 2014: 16m of cash and cash equivalents in respect of commitments of the Groups captive insurance subsidiary to certain insurers.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 149 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 24 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions in 2015 On 5 October 2015, the Group acquired the remaining 49.9% shareholding in KROMAV Engenharia Ltda, a company incorporated in Brazil for a consideration of 3m.
As a result of the transaction, the non-controlling interest released was 1m resulting in a charge of 4m recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Mandatory purchase of minority Foster Wheeler shareholders On 19 January 2015, Amec Foster Wheeler plc completed the squeeze-out merger under Swiss law the Squeeze-Out Merger of Foster Wheeler AG Foster Wheeler through its wholly owned subsidiaries AMEC International Investments BV and A-FW International Investments GmbH.
All remaining Foster Wheeler shareholders received, for each Foster Wheeler share held, a combination of $16.00 in cash and either i 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler shares, if the shareholders address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was outside the United States or ii 0.8998 Amec Foster Wheeler American depositary shares ADSs, if the shareholders address on the books and records of Foster Wheeler was in the United States.
The cash portion of the consideration was increased by $0.225 for each Amec Foster Wheeler share or Amec Foster Wheeler ADS received, in lieu of the Amec Foster Wheeler dividend of 0.148 announced on 7 August 2014.
This was calculated by converting the dividend amount to US$ at the European Central Banks 5 January 2015 exchange rate of $1.5223 per 1.00.
In aggregate, Amec Foster Wheeler paid as consideration in the Squeeze-Out Merger 51m $77m in cash and issued 4,255,970 Amec Foster Wheeler shares.
The purchase consideration was allocated as follows: Recognised value m Assets acquired Liabilities assumed Net identifiable assets and liabilities Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity 75 Non-controlling interest acquired 10 85 Consideration Shares issued 34 Cash paid on completion 51 85 Acquisitions in 2014 Foster Wheeler Background On 6 October 2014, the Group launched a public tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG, the ultimate parent company of Foster Wheeler.
Pursuant to the tender offer, which closed on 13 November 2014 the acquisition date, the Group acquired 95.3 per cent of the issued share capital of Foster Wheeler AG.
Consideration payable for the interests in Foster Wheeler acquired by the Group amounted to 1,915m measured at fair value at the acquisition date, of which 979m was settled in cash, 919m was settled by the issue of ordinary shares and ADSs and 17m was settled by the grant of replacement share options and awards to Foster Wheeler employees.
Due to the relatively short period of time that elapsed between the acquisition date and the completion of the 2014 financial statements, management had not finalised its assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of certain of Foster Wheelers property, plant and equipment, equity-accounted investments, and property-related, legal and environmental obligations and a provisional allocation was reported in the 2014 financial statements.
The fair value assessment was completed during 2015.
Amec Foster Wheeler 150 Annual report and accounts 2015 24 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued The purchase consideration has been allocated as follows: m Identifiable assets acquired Property, plant and equipment 111 Identifiable intangible assets 742 Interests in joint ventures 73 Current tax receivable 13 Deferred tax assets 27 Inventories 11 Trade and other receivables 751 Gross contractual amounts receivable 818 Allowance for doubtful debts 67 Derivative financial instruments 12 Cash and cash equivalents 265 Liabilities assumed Bank loans 39 Finance lease obligations 32 Trade and other payables 856 Current tax 65 Retirement benefit liabilities 72 Deferred tax liabilities 113 Provisions 592 Net identifiable assets acquired 212 Non-controlling interests 23 Goodwill 1,726 Consideration 1,915 Non-controlling interests in Foster Wheeler were measured at their proportionate share of Foster Wheelers identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date.
Goodwill of 1,726m has been recognised on the acquisition of Foster Wheeler.
Management considers that the goodwill is attributable to the future strategic growth opportunities arising from the acquisition, Foster Wheelers highly skilled, customer-oriented and collaborative assembled workforce, the significant cost synergies that are expected to result from the integration of Foster Wheeler with the Groups existing operations, and the potential for tax synergies.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs relating to the acquisition of Foster Wheeler totalling 33m were recognised within administrative expenses during 2014.
In the period from its acquisition to 31 December 2014, Foster Wheeler contributed 274m to the Groups revenue and 1m to the Groups trading profit.
After amortisation, exceptional items and net asbestos related items, Foster Wheeler generated a loss of 44m in the period from acquisition to 31 December 2014.
Management estimated that if Foster Wheeler had been acquired on 1 January 2014, the Groups revenue for the year would have been 1,814m higher than reported at 5,800m.
Management was unable to estimate reliably what the Groups profit or loss for the year would have been on this basis, principally because it is not practicable to retrospectively apply the significant purchase accounting adjustments that were made to the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities of Foster Wheeler at its acquisition date and the tax effects of those adjustments.
Changes to the provisional fair value allocation As discussed above, during 2015 management completed its assessment of the fair values of Foster Wheelers assets and liabilities as at the acquisition date resulting in the recognition of an additional goodwill of $245m.
The most significant updates were as follows: Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 151 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 24 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued Longview As previously disclosed, during 2015, the arbitration panel awarded Kvaerner approximately $74m approximately 48m in respect of the arbitration with Kvaerner North American Construction Inc arising from GPGs role in the construction of the Longview power plant in West Virginia, US in 2011.
As the contract was complete prior to the acquisition, this award has been fully reflected in the purchase price allocation.
Refinery project arbitration India As disclosed in the 2014 financial statements, Foster Wheeler commenced arbitration in India against its client seeking collection of unpaid invoices in connection with the construction of an oil refinery plant in north-eastern India.
Its client rejected the claim and submitted significant counterclaims.
The provisional purchase price allocation included an allowance against the outstanding debts but, due to the ongoing risks and the passage of time, a further charge of 16m has been made.
This represents full provision against the outstanding receivables.
Other project litigation A provision of 33m has been established against costs expected to be disallowed and a potential alleged breach of warranty claim in respect of design work undertaken on a design, build and construct project based in the Southern US.
Management has performed a detailed review of the contracts in the GPG business and made provisions for defect rectification and damages claims totalling 19m across a number of contracts.
A number of smaller provisions totalling 21m have been established against specific contact risks.
Receivables and payables Provision has been made against receivables and unbilled work in progress on a number of contracts including 10m on one contract that were outstanding as at the acquisition date and remained uncollected at the end of the hindsight period.
Provision has also been made against an employment tax risk associated with a permanent establishment overseas.
Uncertain tax positions Management has reviewed the ongoing tax positions of Foster Wheeler and increased the provisions for uncertain tax positions in a number of jurisdictions.
The most significant increases withholding tax on potential deemed distributions.
Property, plant and equipment The carrying value of property, plant and equipment has been reviewed resulting in a 9m write down of two properties to their expected market value.
Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities reduced by 23m.
This movement includes a potential tax liability on the future unwind of an overseas branch, as well as the deferred tax impact of the additional adjustments to the purchase price offset by the impact of the finalisation of the intangible asset allocation.
The recognition of deferred tax on the purchase price allocation is restricted as a result of uncertainty over future profits and capacity constraints.
Restatement In addition to the above, the acquisition balance sheet as presented on page 151 has been restated to present liabilities of 65m in respect of onerous leases within trade and other payables.
As part of the finalisation of the acquisition accounting, the acquired intangible assets have been allocated to the relevant jurisdictions resulting in a foreign exchange movement between the acquisition date and 31 December 2014.
This is reflected in the restated consolidated statement of changes in equity for 2014.
Scopus On 15 December 2014, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Scopus Group Holdings Limited Scopus for 68m with 67m paid on completion and 1m deferred for one year.
Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 employees who provide specialist engineering services to the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
Due to the relatively short period of time that had elapsed between the acquisition date and completion of the 2014 financial statements, management had not yet finalised its assessment of the fair values at the acquisition date of 15 December 2014 at the time that the 2014 financial statements were completed.
The fair value assessment was completed during 2015, with only minor adjustments to the provisional assessment.
Goodwill of 35m has been recognised on the acquisition which management considers is principally attributable to its skilled workforce which did not meet the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset at the date of acquisition.
This specialist expertise will complement Amec Foster Wheelers existing project delivery capability across the lifecycle of a project.
Amec Foster Wheeler 152 Annual report and accounts 2015 24 Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisitions in 2014 continued Summary of financial effect Purchase consideration was provisionally allocated as follows: m Intangible assets 31 Tangible assets 1 Trade and other receivables 7 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Trade and other payables 3 Deferred tax liability 6 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 33 Goodwill on acquisition 35 68 Consideration Cash paid on completion 67 deferred 1 68 Scopus did not make a material contribution to the Groups results for the year and would not have done so even if it had been acquired on 1 January 2014.
Acquisitions in 2013 Automated Engineering Services Corp. On 15 November 2013, the Group acquired all of the shares in Automated Engineering Services Corp. AES for up to US$35m, of which US$29m 18m was paid on completion and up to $6m 4m will be paid after three years dependent on the achievement of certain performance targets.
AES is a professional design engineering nuclear services firm based in Naperville, Illinois, US.
It provides plant design modification engineering, engineering analysis, safety, licensing and regulatory services, and engineering programme support to existing nuclear utilities, primarily in the US.
We acquired AES to build on the Groups position in the nuclear industry in the US, allowing us to better serve our clients and providing a strong platform from which to achieve further growth in nuclear services.
Goodwill of 12m was recognised on the acquisition of AES.
Purchase consideration was allocated as follows: m Intangible assets 6 Trade and other receivables 6 Trade and other payables 2 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 10 Goodwill 12 Consideration 22 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 153 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 25 Commitments Operating lease commitments The total obligations under non-cancellable operating lease rentals for continuing operations are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m In one year or less 86 99 Between one and five years 224 249 Over five years 75 124 385 472 Amec Foster Wheeler enters into the following types of lease: short-term plant hires: leases for motor vehicles and office equipment with lease periods of two to five years: and longer-term property leases.
None of the leases include any contingent rentals.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for various items of property and deferred payment arrangements which are similar to finance leases for software.
These leases have terms of renewal, but no purchase options and escalation clauses.
Renewals are at the option of the specific entity that holds the lease.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows: 2015 2014 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments m m m m In one year or less 6 4 12 9 Between one and five years 49 42 47 35 Over five years 15 13 20 17 Total minimum lease payments 70 59 79 61 Less amounts representing finance charges 11 18 Present value of minimum lease payments 59 59 61 61 26 Contingent liabilities Legal claims and actions From time to time, the Group is party to litigation involving clients and sub-contractors arising out of project contracts.
Such litigation includes claims or actions by and against the Group for cancelled contracts, for additional costs incurred in excess of contract provisions, as well as for back charges for alleged breaches of warranty and other contract commitments.
We have recognised provisions for certain known or reasonably likely legal claims or actions against the Group.
We do not expect known and reasonably likely legal claims or actions for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Indemnities and retained obligations We have agreed to indemnify certain third parties relating to businesses and or assets that were previously owned by the Group and were sold to them.
Such indemnifications relate primarily to breach of covenants, breach of representations and warranties, as well as potential exposure for retained liabilities, environmental matters and third party claims for activities conducted by the Group prior to the sale of such businesses and or asset.
We have established provisions for those indemnities in respect of which we consider it probable that there will be a successful claim.
We do not expect indemnities or retained obligations for which a provision has not been established to have a material impact on the Groups financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Guarantees The Group has guaranteed certain performance obligations in respect of a refinery electric power generation plant located in Chile in which we hold a non-controlling interest.
Amec Foster Wheeler 154 Annual report and accounts 2015 26 Contingent liabilities continued Mount Polley The Mount Polley mine is owned and operated by Mount Polley Mining Corporation, a subsidiary of Imperial Metals Corporation, and is located near the town of Likely, British Columbia, Canada.
On 4 August 2014, a tailings pond facility at the mine failed releasing large quantities of water and mine tailings into the local environment.
The dam was in the process of being raised at the time of the failure.
One of our subsidiaries, along with other parties, had various design and quality assurance responsibilities associated with the expansion of this facility.
Our subsidiary was providing engineering services at the time of the breach, but did not perform the original design.
An Independent Review Panel issued a report on 30 January 2015 concluding that the cause of failure was shearing along a zone containing a weak soil layer along with other contributory factors.
On December 17, 2015, the Chief Inspector of Mines for B. C. issued a report that for the most part agrees with the conclusions of the Independent Review Panel.
At this time, litigation has been threatened by the Owner of the Mine and its parent company, Imperial Metals Corporation, but no litigation has yet been commenced against the Group.
Managements opinion is that its employees performed in a professional manner consistent with the standard of care for a competent engineer on a project of this nature.
In addition, the contract between our subsidiary and Mount Polley Mining Corporation contains limitations of liability provisions that exclude claims for consequential damages and limit the subsidiarys liability to the amount of professional fees charged, which were less than CDN$1m.
Amec Foster Wheeler is taking external legal advice on this matter.
In light of both internal and external advice, and given the early stages of this matter, it is considered possible but not probable that there will be an outflow in respect of this issue.
Tax planning The Group undertakes tax planning which is compliant with current legislation and accepted practice.
Recent changes to the tax environment, including the OECDs project around Base Erosion and Profit Shifting have brought into question the legitimacy of tax planning previously undertaken by multinational entities.
There have been several recent high profile tax cases against tax authorities and large groups.
The European Commission has opened formal investigations to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in certain European countries comply with European Union rules.
We are monitoring the outcome of these cases in order to understand whether there is any risk to the Group.
Based on the Groups current assessment of such issues, it is too early to speculate on any areas of challenge and potential liabilities, and as a result, it is not currently considered probable that there will be an outflow in respect of these issues.
27 Related party transactions During 2015 there were a number of transactions with the senior management group, joint venture entities and subsidiary companies.
Transactions with the senior management group Following the acquisition of Foster Wheeler in late 2014, the senior management group now consists of Amec Foster Wheeler plc board members and the presidents of the Americas, Northern Europe and CIS, Asia Middle East, Africa and Southern Europe, and the Global Power Group.
The senior management group and relatives controlled 0.7% of the voting rights of the company as at 31 December 2015.
In addition to their salaries, the company also provides non-cash benefits to executive directors and other senior managers and they receive share awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The company also contributes to a defined benefit plan on behalf of certain executive directors.
Details of their compensation are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 5 5 Pension costs Equity-settled share-based payments 1 5 6 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 155 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Notes to the consolidated accounts continued 27 Related party transactions continued Transactions and related balances outstanding with joint ventures The transactions and related balances outstanding with joint venture entities are as follows: Value of transactions Outstanding balance in the year as at 31 December 2014 2014 2015 restated 2015 restated m m m m Services received 1 Services rendered 28 29 12 12 Provision of finance 9 17 25 The 2014 restatement reflects changes to classifications of related party transactions.
In September 2012, the UK governments Department for Business, Innovation and Skills announced a change to UK legislation with respect to the requirement for a UK company to be subject to annual audit.
An additional audit exemption has been introduced, such that for a subsidiary of a parent established in a European Economic Area state, that subsidiary can be exempt from annual audit if certain conditions are met.
The principal conditions are the requirement for the subsidiarys shareholders to agree to the exemption and a guarantee to be issued to the subsidiary by the parent undertaking, guaranteeing all of the subsidiarys outstanding liabilities at the year end, until they are satisfied in full.
The Group will be exempting the following companies from an audit in 2015 under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006, all of which are fully consolidated in these accounts: Amec Foster Wheeler Finance Asia Limited Registered number: 6205760 AMEC Hedge Co 1 Limited Registered number: 07870120 AMEC Kazakhstan Holdings Limited Registered number: 4530056 Amec Foster Wheeler Property and Overseas Investments Limited Registered number: 1580678 AMEC USA Finance Limited Registered number: 5299446 AMEC USA Holdings Limited Registered number: 4041261 AMEC USA Limited Registered number: 4044800 AMEC Wind Developments Limited Registered number: 8781332 Ard Ghaoth Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7625013 Auld Clay Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7285550 Castlecary Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7611293 Hilton Wind Farm Limited Registered number: 7767187 PI Energy & Emissions Limited Registered number: SC209704 Sandiway Solutions No 3 Limited Registered number: 5318249 Sigma Financial Facilities Limited Registered number: 3863449 28 Post balance sheet events Refinancing On 1 March 2016 the Group completed a refinancing of its main debt facilities by entering into a new facility with a syndicate of 20 banks.
The new facility, which has three tranches a three-year 650m term loan, a five-year 650m term loan and a five-year 400m revolving credit facility replaces the companys existing revolving credit facility and the Foster Wheeler acquisition facility.
Longview In early March 2016, the Group settled its dispute with Kvaerner as described in note 24.
We have agreed to pay Kvaerner $70m in full and final settlement of the claims.
Amec Foster Wheeler 156 Annual report and accounts 2015
