History and development X Details of incorporation In 2012, we acquired Energy, Safety and Risk Consultants Amec Foster Wheeler plc is a public limited company that is UK Limited, or ESRC, a UK-based nuclear technical services incorporated in England and Wales with the registered number business Unidel Group Pty Limited, or Unidel, a consulting, 01675285. engineering and technical services company serving Australias energy, resources and infrastructure sectors The Companys registered office is situated at Booths Park, and a 50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda, or KROMAV, Chelford Road, Knutsford, Cheshire, WA16 8QZ, UK.
a participant in the Brazilian oil and gas market, with an The Company operates under English law.
option to acquire the outstanding 50% stake.
X The Companys agent in the US is CT Corporation, whose contact In 2013, we acquired Automated Engineering Services Corp. address is 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011, US.
a US design engineering nuclear services firm which provides support to existing nuclear utilities.
Origins X Amec Foster Wheeler plc previously AMEC plc was formed in In 2014, we acquired Scopus Group Holdings Limited 1982, when Fairclough Construction merged with William Press Scopus.
Headquartered in Aberdeen, UK, with bases Group.
The Matthew Hall Group of Companies was acquired in international oil and gas hubs, Scopus has around 200 in 1988.
As a business, we can trace our history back over employees who provide specialist engineering services to 150 years to the origins of these predecessor companies.
the global oil and gas, petrochemical and nuclear industries.
Subsequent transformation Between 1997 and 2006, we bought and sold interests in SPIE, In recent years, the Groups activities have been transformed which provided electrical engineering, communications services by exiting from civil construction and becoming a consultancy, and specialist activities in the energy and rail industries, engineering and project management business.
We have predominantly in France.
achieved this transformation through a combination of organic In November 2014, the Company acquired control of Foster growth, acquisitions and divestment of non-core activities.
Wheeler AG, a leading international engineering, construction X In 2000, we acquired AGRA Inc. a North American and project management contractor and power equipment environmental, engineering and construction services supplier, by way of a public tender offer.
Foster Wheeler AG company and Ogden Environmental and Energy Services was a Swiss-registered company that was listed on NASDAQ Co. Inc. a US environmental consulting company.
At 31 December 2014, the Company owned, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, 95.3% of the issued share capital X In 2005, we acquired Paragon Engineering Services, Inc. of Foster Wheeler AG.
At the time of the acquisition, Foster a Houston-based oil and gas engineering services company Wheeler had around 12,000 employees and operated in over and NNC Holdings Limited, a UK nuclear consultancy and 30 countries through two business groups.
Developments during 2015 X In 2007, we sold our UK-based civil construction businesses.
During January 2015, the Company acquired the remaining X In 2008, we acquired Geomatrix Consultants, Inc. shares in Foster Wheeler AG by way of a squeeze-out merger a California-based technical consulting and engineering firm: conducted under Swiss law and Foster Wheeler AG merged Rider Hunt International Limited, a project services company with and into one of the Companys wholly-owned subsidiaries.
to the oil, gas, chemical, energy and process industries: and In October 2015, we exercised our right to acquire the remaining Bower Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
50% stake in Kromav Engenharia Ltda.
X In 2008, we sold our wind developments business.
In December 2015, we exercised our right to acquire the X In 2009, we acquired GRD Limited, an engineering and project remaining 40% stake in S2V Consulting Pty Ltd, a company delivery company based in Perth, Australia, specialising in the incorporated in Australia and providing specialised consulting design, procurement and construction of mineral projects.
services to our oil and gas customers including upstream midstream, subsea and pipelines, onshore offshore and X In 2010, we acquired Entec Holdings Limited, a UK-based production and processing.
During December 2015, we also environmental and engineering consultancy company.
sold our interest in Project Management Holdings Limited, X In 2011, we acquired MACTEC Inc. a US engineering and a company incorporated in Ireland and providing engineering, environmental services company: and QED International architecture, and project management and construction Limited, or qedi, an oil and gas completions and services internationally.
Amec Foster Wheeler 166 Annual report and accounts 2015
