See note 2 of the 2013 Consolidated financial statements for details.
2 Comparatives for 2006 were adjusted in the 2007 Annual Report to reclassify amounts relating to discontinued operations where applicable.
3 Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT of associates and joint ventures is the Groups attributable share of revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of associates and joint ventures.
4 Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation.
5 Underlying earnings is profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements, and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax and non-controlling interests.
6 Total capital employed is net assets excluding net debt including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups and financial asset investments.
7 Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and equipment including related derivatives, proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and direct funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests.
8 Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups.
9 Underlying EBIT interest cover is underlying EBIT divided by net finance costs, excluding net foreign exchange gains and losses, unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other liabilities, financing special items and remeasurements, and including the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs, which in 2011 resulted in a net finance income and therefore the ratio is not applicable.
10 The effective tax rate is presented before special items and remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures tax.
11 Net debt to total capital is calculated as net debt including related hedges and net debt in disposal groups divided by total capital.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 173
