OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which Ore Reserves quantity and grade or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or evidence and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient to imply but not Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances verify geological and grade or quality continuity.
It is based on exploration, forlosses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
ofand modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These An Inferred Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could applying to an Indicated Mineral Resource and must not be converted to reasonably be justified.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing anOre Reserve.
It is reasonably expected that the majority of Inferred confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
MineralResources could be upgraded to Indicated Mineral Resources with continuedexploration.
A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses Life of Mine Plan LOM Plan which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments A design and costing study of an existing operation in which appropriate and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and assessments have been made of realistically assumed geological, mining, modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These governmental, engineering, operational and all other Modifying Factors, assessments demonstrate at the time ofreporting that extraction could which are considered in sufficient detail to demonstrate at the time of reasonably be justified.
reporting that extraction is reasonably justified.
A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting Reserve Life materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is The scheduled extraction period in years for the total Ore Reserves in the mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and approved LOM Plan.
include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, Inferred in LOM Plan metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and Inferred Resources within the scheduled LOM Plan.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
LOM Plan The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual Mineral Resources economic extraction not considered in the LOM Plan.
A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade or quality, Throughout this report a number of financial and non-financial measures and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic areused to assess the Groups performance.
The measures are defined extraction.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other asfollows: geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or Underlying EBIT interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge, including Underlying EBIT is operating profit presented before special items and sampling.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing remeasurements and includes the Groups attributable share of associates geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
and joint ventures underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT of associates and joint A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which ventures is the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape, and physical characteristics are revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements of estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying associates and joint ventures.
See notes 3 and 5 to the financial statements Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the for underlying EBIT.
economic viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered through Underlying earnings appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to confirm geological and grade consider to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
orquality continuity between points of observation where data and samples Underlying earnings is profit for the financial year attributable to equity are gathered.
shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements and A Measured Mineral Resource has a higher level of confidence than that is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and applying to either an Indicated Mineral Resource or an Inferred Mineral non-controlling interests.
See note 9 to the financial statements for the basis Resource.
It may be converted to a Proved Ore Reserve or under certain of calculation of underlying earnings.
See note 6 to the financial statements circumstances to a Probable Ore Reserve.
for the definition of special items and remeasurements.
An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which Net debt quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are Net debt includes related hedges and net debt in disposal groups.
estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Seenote23 to the financial statements.
Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Geological evidence is derived from Capital expenditure adequately detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing gathered Capital expenditure is defined as cash expenditure on property, plant and through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, equipment, including related derivatives, and is now presented net of pits, workings and drill holes, and is sufficient to assume geological and grade proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment and includes direct orquality continuity between points of observation where data and samples funding for capital expenditure from non-controlling interests in order to are gathered.
match more closely the way in which it is managed.
An Indicated Mineral Resource has a lower level of confidence than that Underlying EBITDA applying to a Measured Mineral Resource and may only be converted to Underlying EBITDA is underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation aProbable Ore Reserve.
in subsidiaries and joint operations and includes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures underlying EBIT before depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA, as presented in the net debt table on page 38 of this report excludes the Groups attributable share of associates and joint ventures EBITDA.
180 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Other information OT OTH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA AT TION ION G LOSSARY OF TERMS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES Copper equivalent production Copper equivalent production, expressed as copper equivalent tonnes, is a metric used to show changes in underlying production volume.
Each commoditys volumes are expressed as revenue, and then converted into acopper equivalent volume by dividing revenue by copper price per tonne.
The prices used for conversion by Anglo American are based on long term consensus prices Fx.
When aggregated, these give the Groups production expressed in units of copper equivalent.
Production volumes considered include both equity and purchased volumes e. g. platinum concentrate from joint operation partners, as well as volumes from mines in pre-commercial production.
Thabazimbi iron ore and domestic thermal coal production is excluded.
Copper equivalent production has been normalised for the disposal of AA Norte.
Copper equivalent unit costs Copper equivalent unit costs divide the gross costs associated with unit costs, by relevant copper equivalent volume.
Only own equity volumes and costs are considered.
Thabazimbi iron ore and domestic thermal coal production is excluded, as are operations not in commercial production.
Fatal-injury frequency rate FIFR FIFR is the number of employee or contractor fatal injuries due to all causes per 200,000 hours worked.
Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries LTIs for both employees and contractors per 200,000 hours worked.
An LTI is a work related injury resulting in the person being unable to attend work or perform the routine functions of his her job, on the next calendar day after the day of the injury, whether a scheduled workday or not.
Restricted work cases are therefore counted as LTIs.
Total recordable case frequency rate TRCFR TRCFR is the number of fatal injuries, lost time injuries and medical treatment cases for both employees and contractors per 200,000 hours.
New cases of occupational disease NCOD NCOD is the sum of occupational diseases due to asbestosis, noise-induced hearing loss, silicosis, coal-workers pneumoconiosis, chronic obstructive airways disease, occupational tuberculosis, occupational asthma, hand arm vibration syndrome, musculoskeletal disorders, dermatitis, occupational cancers and other occupational diseases.
Total energy consumed Total amount of energy consumed is the sum of total energy from electricity purchased, total energy from fossil fuels and total energy from renewable fuels and is measured in million gigajoules GJ.
Total new water consumed Total amount of water used is the total new or make-up water entering the operation and used for the operations primary operational activities and is 3 measured in million m. Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 181 OTHER INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND PERFORMANCE MEASURES Return on capital employed ROCE ROCE is a ratio that measures the efficiency and profitability of a companys capital investments.
It displays how effectively assets are generating profit for the size of invested capital and is calculated as underlying EBIT divided by average capital employed.
Attributable ROCE Attributable ROCE is the primary return measure used in the Group.
It is defined as the return on the capital employed attributable to equity shareholders of Anglo American plc, and therefore excludes the portion of underlying EBIT and capital employed attributable to non-controlling interests in operations where Anglo American plc has control but does not hold 100% of the equity.
Joint operations, associates and joint ventures are included in their proportionate interest and in line with appropriate accounting treatment.
It is calculated based on achieved prices and foreign exchange.
The previous ROCE measure, used to track the Driving Value programme, incorporated a number of adjustments, principally to reverse the impact of certain impairments and acquisition fair value adjustments.
The new attributable ROCE measure has been developed to allow a clearer link to the published financial statements.
Comparatives have been restated to align with the current year presentation, and capital employed by segment is disclosed in note 3 to the Consolidated financial statements.
US$ billion 2015 2014 2013 2012 1 Attributable EBIT 1.6 3.4 4.4 4.1 Average attributable capital employed 32.6 38.7 41.5 40.0 Attributable ROCE 5% 9% 10% 10% 1 For periods of less than one year EBIT for the period is annualised, with the exception of fide Beers which is based on the last 12 months of performance due to seasonal sales and EBIT profile.
Driving Value ROCE Driving Value ROCE is an adjusted measure of Attributable ROCE for the measurement of 2014 LTIP only.
It is calculated using Attributable ROCE based on realised prices and foreign exchange rates and includes the following adjustments: Impairments announced after 10 December 2013 are added back to total capital employed unless the impairment resulted from the asset being taken out ofservice.
Earnings and return impacts from impairments due to reduced depreciation or amortisation expense are excluded from underlying EBIT.
The fide Beers fair value uplift which resulted from the revaluing upward of Anglo American plcs pre-existing 45% share in fide Beers is removed from opening 2012 capital employed onwards.
Structural adjustments for the fide Beers acquisition assuming ownership of 85% of fide Beers from 1 January 2012 actual acquisition date: 16 August 2012 and disposals from Anglo American Sur assuming ownership of 50.1% from the start of 2012 actual disposal date: 23 August 2012 have been included.
ROCE used for LTIP metrics 50% of the Executives annual LTIP award is predicated upon the achievement of ROCE targets over a three year performance period.
The target range for the 2014 LTIP award, 12-16%, was based on Driving Value ROCE at achieved prices, set at a level designed to support the aspiration of achieving a ROCE of 15% by the end of 2016.
Although the subsequent steep decline in prices since that award has made the target range very stretching, it is not intended that the LTIP outcomes will be adjusted for the impact of prices.
In 2015 Driving Value ROCE at achieved prices was 4%.
1 The target range for the 2015 LTIP award was set at 1014%, consistent with the lower commodity price expectations at the time.
In order to provide a clearer link to the financial statements for investors and participants, the simplified Attributable ROCE, as set out above, will be used for the 2015 LTIP award onwards.
The original range of 1014% will be adjusted for impairments taken after 31 December 2014 until 31 December 2017 and will be restated at the point of vesting to assess performance.
The range for 2016 LTIP has been increased to reflect the volatility Anglo American experiences due to commodity price and foreign exchange movements.
Given the announced portfolio review, the ranges for all LTIP awards will be restated in the year of vesting, for changes to the portfolio that take place between setting the target and assessing performance.
1 Initial target set at 913% for Driving Value ROCE, subsequently updated to 10-14% for Attributable ROCE.
The two targets are identical on a like-for-like basis.
182 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015
