OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Glossary and definitions Business, financial and accounting ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly owned subsidiary Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of of the Group operating the water concession in Chiles Antofagasta plc acquired on 28 January 2015 through Antofagasta Region that wassold in June 2015. which the Group holds the Twin Metals Project.
EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation.
AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
ECONSSA Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. Alto Maipo Alto Maipo SpA, a 40%-owned associate of the Group the Chilean state-owned company which previously incorporated in Chile, which owns the Alto Maipo operated the regulated and non-regulated water hydroelectric project in the upper section ofthe Maipo distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Region River in Chile.
AMSA Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a wholly owned subsidiary EIA Environmental Impact Assessment.
of the Group incorporated in Chile, which acts as the corporate centre for the El Arrayn Parque Elico el Arrayn SPA, a 30%-owned associate mining division.
of the Group that operates a wind-power plant providing up to 40MW of electricity to Los Pelambres.
Annual report The Annual Report and Financial Statements of Antofagasta plc.
El Tesoro Known as Centinela Cathodes following the creation of Centinela.
Antucoya Minera Antucoya S. A. a 70%-owned subsidiary ofthe Group incorporated in Chile.
ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 50% joint venture partner of the Group in Energa Andina S. A. ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a30%-owned associate of the Group incorporated in Encuentro Copper oxide and sulphide prospect located in Chile and operating the port in the city of Antofagasta.
the Centinela Mining District, formerly known as Caracoles.
dollars Energa Andina Energa Andina S. A. a 50%-owned joint venture entity of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, incorporated in Canada, the joint venture partner of the Group in Tethyan Esperanza Known as Centinela Concentrates following the and Zaldvar.
Capex Capital expenditure s. Esperanza Sur Copper prospect located in the Centinela Mining District.
Cash costs A measure of the cost of operational production expressed in terms of US dollars per pound of ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name payable copper produced.
Cash costs are stated of ECONSSA.
net of by-product credits and include tolling charges ETF Exchange Traded Fund.
for concentrates for Los Pelambres and Centinela EU European Union.
Cash costs exclude depreciation, FCA Financial Conduct Authority.
financial income and expenses, hedging gains and losses, exchange gains and losses and corporation tax.
FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, a CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate wholly owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated of Quienco.
in the UK and operating a rail network in Chiles CDP Carbon Disclosure Project.
Centinela Minera Centinela S. A. a 70%-owned subsidiary of the FTSE AllShare Index A  weighted index representing Group incorporated in Chile, that holds the Centinela the performance of all eligible companies listed on the Concentrates formerly Esperanza and Centinela London Stock Exchanges main market.
Cathodes formerly El Tesoro operations.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Centinela Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region of Accepted Accounting Principles.
Mining District Chile, where Centinela is located.
Formerly known as GHG Greenhouse Gas.
Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary companies and Chilean peso Chilean currency.
Comex The commodity exchange, the primary market Hedge Accounting treatment for derivatives financial for trading metals such as gold, silver, copper accounting instrument permitted under IAS 39 Financial and aluminium.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, which Companies Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
recognises the offsetting effects on profit or loss of Act 2006 changes in the fair values of a hedging instrument and Company Antofagasta plc.
Continental water Water that comes from the interior of land masses IAS International Accounting Standards.
including rain, snow, streams, rivers, lakes IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
ICMM International Council on Metals and Mining.
Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code is a set of IFRIC International Financial Reporting Governance principles of good corporate governance, most of Interpretations Committee.
Code which have their own set of more detailed provisions published by the Financial Reporting Council and most IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Inversiones Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate Directors The Directors of the Company.
Hornitos of the Group incorporated in Chile which owns the 150MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
Antofagasta plc 197 Glossary and definitions IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Tesoro Central and Copper oxide deposits that form part of the AddedTax Chilean VAT.
Key Management Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 joint Personnel directing and controlling the activities ofthe Group.
venture with Barrick Gold incorporated in Australia.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the Companys share price plus reinvested dividends.
LBMA London Bullion Market Association.
Twin Metals A copper, nickel and platinum group metals strategic LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
Minnesota metals underground-mining project located in northLME London Metal Exchange.
Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres S. A. a 60%-owned subsidiary UK United Kingdom.
ofthe Group incorporated in Chile.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
US dollars United States currency.
LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan which the Groups CEO, Zaldvar Compaia Minera Zaldvar SpA, a 50-50 joint venture Executive Committee and the other senior managers with Barrick Gold Corporation, which operates the participate in.
Zaldvar copper mine in Chile.
Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner in Centinela and Antucoya.
Mining industry Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 99.9%-owned subsidiary Brownfield project A development or exploration project in the vicinity ofthe Group incorporated in Chile.
Mirador Copper oxide deposit that forms part of the Byproducts Products obtained as a result of copper processing.
credits in copper Los Pelambres and Centinela Concentrates receive Platts A provider of energy and metals information and concentrates credit for the gold and silver content in the copper source of benchmark price assessments.
Los Pelambres also produces PPA Power Purchase Agreement.
Provisional A sales term in several copper and molybdenum Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such pricing concentrate sale agreements and cathodes sale as flotation or gravity concentration, which involves agreements that provides for provisional pricing of separating ore minerals from unwanted waste rock.
sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being Concentrates require subsequent processing such based on the monthly average LME copper price as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve or monthly average molybdenum price for specific the ore minerals and obtain the desired elements, future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days usually metals.
after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of Contained copper The proportion or quantity of copper contained IAS 39, the provisional sale isconsidered to contain inagiven quantity of ore or concentrate.
an embedded derivative iethe forward contract for Copper cathode Refined copper produced by electrolytic refining which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted ofimpure copper by electrowinning.
that is separated from the host contract ie the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the Cutoff grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered provisional invoice price less tollingcharges deducted.
economic to process and used in the calculation of ore reserves and mineral resources.
Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial Flotation A process of separation by which chemicals in solution conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family are added to materials, some of which are attracted to and listed on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
bubbles and float, while others sink.
This results in the Ramsar International treaty for the conservation and production of concentrate.
Convention sustainable utilisation of wetlands.
Grade A Highest-quality copper cathode LME registered Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues copper cathode and certified in the case of Centinela Cathodes grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate with and Michilla.
Greenfield project The development or exploration of a new project Reko Diq Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district atapreviously undeveloped site.
The Groups interest was held through Tethyan.
Heapleaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
The crushed material is laid on a slightly sloping, Runofriver A type of hydroelectric plant using the flow of a river impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling as it occurs and having little or no reservoir capacity.
gravity fed chemical solution through the beds to SERNAGEOMIN Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera, a government ponds.
The metal is then recovered from the solution agency that provides geological and technical advice through the SX-EW process.
and regulates the mining industry in Chile.
JORC The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
Leaching The process by which a soluble mineral can be Sterling UK currency.
SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the LifeofMine LOM The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, Chilean securities regulator.
calculated by reference to scheduled production rates Telgrafo The former name of Esperanza Sur.
ie comparing the rate at which ore is expected to be extracted from the mine to currentdefined reserves.
198 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Mineral resources Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in Currency abbreviations such form and quantity that there are reasonable $ US dollar.
prospects for eventual economic extraction.
Mineral resources are stated inclusive of ore reserves, as defined by JORC.
MW Megawatts one million watts.
Net cash cost Gross cash cost plus by-product credits.
Open pit Mine working or excavation that is open to m Million pounds sterling.
Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be C$ Canadian dollar.
Ore grade The relative quantity, or percentage, of metal content Ch$ Chilean peso.
in an ore body or quantity of processed ore. Ch$000 Thousand Chilean pesos.
Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate Ch$m Million Chilean pesos.
assessments have been carried out to demonstrate that at a given date extraction could be reasonably A$ Australian dollar.
These include consideration of and A$000 Thousand Australian dollars.
modification by realistically assumed mining, A$m Million Australian dollars.
metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Oxide and Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore Definitions and conversion Sulphide ores occurs on the weathered surface of ore-rich lodes of weights and measures and normally results in the production of cathode copper through a heap-leaching process.
comes from an unweathered parent ores process oz A troy ounce.
and normally results in the production of concentrate 3 000 m Thousand cubic metres.
through a flotation process which then requires smelting and refining to produce cathode copper.
Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained 1 kilogramme 2.2046 pounds.
copper for which payment is received after 1 metric tonne 1,000 kilogrammes.
Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated 1 troy ounce 31.1 grammes.
chalcopyrite and other sulphide minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, generally in open pits, for copper and its by-product molybdenum.
Chemical symbols RunofMine A process for the recovery of copper from ore, ROM typically used for low-grade ores.
uncrushed ore is leached with a chemical solution.
The metal is then recovered from the solution through Au Gold.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
SXEW Solvent extraction and electrowinning.
A process for extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
First the metal is leached into solution: the resulting solution is then purified in the solventextraction process: the solution is then treated in an electrochemical process electrowinning to recover cathode copper.
Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which remains as a result of the concentrating process after the recoverable minerals have been extracted in concentrate form.
TC RCs Treatment and refining charges, being terms used to set the smelting and refining charge or margin for processing copper concentrate and normally set either on an annual or spot basis.
Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate into finished metal.
These include TC RCs, price participation and price sharing for copper concentrate and roasting charges for molybdenum concentrate.
tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
Underground mine Natural or man-made excavation under the surface ofthe ground.
