OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other generally not interest-bearing and are normally stated at their than those at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed nominal value.
for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the loans and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future received, net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
Forloans measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and receivables, the amount of the impairment is the difference with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
between the assets carrying value and the present value of The effective interest method is amethod of calculating the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest interest rate.
Any impairment loss is recognised in profit or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is loss immediately.
the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the appropriate, a shorter period.
Finance charges, including impairmentloss directly for all financial assets with the exception premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue oftrade receivables.
costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis using the effective With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a interest rate method.
Amounts are either recorded as financing subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases costs in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance with the and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring accounting policy set out in Note 2 k. Finance charges are added after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss immediately to are not settled in the period in which they arise.
the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised theCompany carry a fixed rate of return without the right to cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
They are accordingly classified within In respect of available-for-sale equity instruments, any increase in borrowings and translated into US dollars at period-end rates fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognised directly of exchange.
Preference share dividends are included within in equity.
y Rounding v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are All amounts disclosed in the financial statements and notes have recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue been rounded off to the nearest one hundred thousand dollars unless costs.
Equity instruments of the Company comprise its otherwise stated.
sterling-denominated issued ordinary share capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 e, the presentational These policies have been consistently applied to all the years currency of the Group and the functional currency of the presented, unless otherwise stated.
Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium are translated into US dollars at historical rates 3 Critical accounting judgements and ofexchange based ondates of issue.
 uncertainty vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 26 d, Determining many of the amounts included in the financial the Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce statements involves the use of judgement and or estimation.
exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity These judgements and estimates are based on managements price movements.
The Group does not use such derivative best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances having instruments for trading purposes.
The Group has applied the regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about Recognition and Measurement.
The effective portion of suchjudgements and estimates is included in the principal changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments accountingpolicies in Note 2 or the other notes to the financial that are designated and qualify as hedges of future cash flows statements, and the key areas are set out below.
have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in profit or loss in the period when a Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion andofproject costs is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Realised gains As explained in Note 2 k, the costs of developing mining properties and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in profit are capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which orloss are recorded within revenue.
The time value element they are incurred, when the mining project is considered to be of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded commercially viable.
Management reviews amounts capitalised to from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore ensure that the treatment of that expenditure as capital rather than recognised directly in profit or loss within other finance items.
operating expenditure is reasonable, in particular in respect of the Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other commercial viability of the project.
Commercial viability is normally hostcontracts are treated as separate derivatives when their considered to be demonstrable when the project has completed risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility study has host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair been approved.
Changes in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the year.
The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionally-priced commodity sales contracts is set out infurther detail in Note 2 f relating to revenue.
