OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N The Group has pledged assets with a carrying value of $301.4 million 2014 $169.3 million as security against bank loans provided to the Group.
The increase in the value of pledged assets compared with 2014 reflects the guarantees relating to the Antucoya project financing during 2015.
At 31 December 2015 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to$283.1 million 2014 $253.2 million of which $138.6 million was related to the development of the Encuentro Oxides project.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was $15.2 million in 2015 2014 $2.5 million.
At 31 December 2015 $44.9 million 2014 $26.4 million of depreciation in respect of assets relating to Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Michilla has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment or inventory, and accordingly is excluded from the depreciation charge recorded in the income statement as shown in Note 4 a.
Additions include $20.8 million related to property, plant and equipment of Twin Metals as part of the acquisition of the Duluth group of assets see Note 19.
Reclassification additions are mainly related to the capitalisation of interests and other expenses incurred during the commissioning of Antucoya.
15 Impairment review Given the recent deterioration in commodity market conditions the Group has reviewed its assets for indicators of impairment, and has performed impairment reviews in respect of the Centinela and Antucoya operations.
In both cases fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD calculations have been used, based on discounted cash flow models incorporating estimates of assumptions that would be used by independent market participants in valuing the assets.
The cash flow models are based onthe operations detailed life-of-mine plans.
The key assumptions to which the value of the assets are most sensitive are future commodity prices, the discount rate used to determine the present value of the future cash flows, future operating costs, sustaining and development capital expenditure and ore reserve estimates.
The commodity price forecasts representing the Groups estimates of the assumptions that would be used by independent market participants in valuing the assets are based on consensus forecasts, information disclosed by other mining companies and prices implied byrecent market transactions.
A long-term copper price of $3.00 lb has been used in the FVLCD calculations.
A real post-tax discount rate of8% has been used in determining the present value of the forecast future cash flow from the assets.
For both Centinela and Antucoya, the recoverable amount indicated by the FVLCD calculations was greater than the carrying value of the assets, and accordingly no impairment charge has been recorded.
The assumptions used in the FVLCD calculations which are considered to be subject to the most estimation uncertainty are the long-term copper price and the discount rate.
To illustrate the sensitivity of the valuations of Centinela and Antucoya to negative movements in these parameters, a 5% decrease in the forecast long-term copper price would result in an impairment of $375 million at Centinela and animpairment of $95 million at Antucoya, and an increase in the discount rate from 8% to 9% would result in an impairment of $190 million at Centinela and an impairment of $50 million at Antucoya.
These are simple sensitivities, looking at illustrative movements in the long-term copper price and discount rate in isolation.
In reality, a deterioration in the long-term copper price environment is likely to resultin corresponding improvements in a range of input cost factors, as well as potential operational changes, which could partly mitigate the aboveestimated potential impairment charges.
