58 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Glossary Key terms explained Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
LTE Long-term Evolution or 4G is the next-generation wireless standard for mobile phones.
It is optimised for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
Mali ARMs family of specialist multimedia processors including 3D graphics, video and display technologies.
CAGR Compound annual growth rate.
Microcontroller MCU A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which can be used in many applications.
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or an MCU.
Cortex Family of ARM processors.
Original equipment An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones.
manufacturer OEM Forexample Apple, HTC or LG.
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARMs processor technology.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips.
These chips Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
are typically manufactured by a foundry.
Forexample MediaTek, Marvell and Qualcomm.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology.
behalf of fabless semiconductor companies.
Theroyalty is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is reported as royalty revenue.
Intellectual property IP ARM designs technology for use in computer chips.
The general term STB Set-top box.
for the products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
Internet of Things IoT An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet System-on-Chip SoC An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into either directly or indirectly via a smartphone.
From pedometers to asingle chip.
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners.
They pay an upfront free, which is reported as licence revenue.
Financial tables Contact details Consolidated balance sheet If you want to inform us of a change of address or For all other enquiries please contact one of ARMs have lost your share certicate or have an enquiry investor relations team: about dividend payments please contact: Ian Thornton Equiniti Shareholder Services Head of Investor Relations Aspect House ARM Holdings plc Designed and produced by Spencer Road 110 Fulbourn Road Radley Yeldar.
com Lancing Cambridge CB1 9NJ This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper BN99 6DA, UK Phone: 44 0 1223 400796 which is certied by the Forest Stewardship Council and Phone: 0871 384 2139 Email: ian.
The paper is Process Chlorine www.
com Free PCF made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental Phil Sparks management system accreditation.
Auditors statement Investor Relations Manager This report was produced using the pureprint The auditors report on the financial statements ARM Holdings plc environmental print technology, aguaranteed, low carbon, and the auditors statement undersection 496of 110 Fulbourn Road low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Printed using the Companies Act onwhether the information Cambridge CB1 9NJ vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer given in the Strategic Report and Directors report Phone: 44 0 1223 405566 certied to ISO 14001 environmental management system for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 is Email: philip.
com and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
consistent with the Group financial statements were ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan, Cordio, Cortex, Mali both unqualied and can befound on page 50 of the Charlotte King and mbed are trademarks or registered trademarks Governance andFinancial Report.
Group Finance Administrator ofARM Limited.
ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ Phone: 44 0 1223 400408 Email: charlotte.
com ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1223 400400 Facsimile 44 0 1223 400410 www.
com company arm ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Governance and Financial Report Automotive autonomy Smart construction Environmental monitoring Smart construction building techniques are Our countryside and waterways are ARMs technology is Cars are becoming mobile computing platforms.
being enhanced by embedding smart sensors invaluable resources for food, transport More sensors and cameras are being included into the fabric of buildings as they are being and recreation as well as providing a to assist the driver with lane detection, reading shaping the way we built.
Sensors are detecting the temperature habitat for wildlife.
Digital monitoring roadside signage and identifying potential hazards of concrete as it sets, the tension on rebars of the quality of air and water helps to or people crossing the road.
In time, driver to ensure the strain is within tolerance, and ensure that we are able to protect these all live our lives: in the assistance may lead to fully automated vehicles.
whether vibration of the site could damage resources for years to come.
home, as we travel, at school or work, and as we have fun with our friends ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 1 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2015 Chairmans introduction 3 Governance Board of directors 6 Corporate Governance report 8 The Strategic Report contains information about ARM, Audit Committee report 18 how we make money and how we run the business.
It includes an overview of our main markets, our Nomination Committee report 23 strategy, business model, key performance indicators and main areas of risk, as well as our progress during Directors Remuneration report 25 2014.
The report also describes our approach to Directors report 44 organisation and culture, governance and sustainability, and includes a summary of our financial strategy.
: Independent auditors report to 50 A copy of the Strategic Report can be downloaded from www.
com reporting2015 the members of ARM Holdings plc Financial Report Consolidated income statement 56 Consolidated statement of 56 comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet 57 The Corporate Responsibility Report outlines our Consolidated cash flow statement 58 approach to investing in sustainability and projects to enable more energy efficient technology, andhow we Consolidated statement of changes attract and develop smartand innovative employees.
in shareholders equity 59 A copy of the Corporate Responsibility Report can Notes to the financial statements 60 bedownloaded from www.
com reporting2015 Company balance sheet UK GAAP 94 Company cash flow statement UK GAAP 94 Statement of changes in shareholders equity 95 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 96 The Investor Relations website contains more information on what ARM does and how we connect Independent auditors report to with some of the worlds most innovative companies the members of ARM Holdings plc 101 to shape the future of technology.
Here you will find our latest financial results and recent case studies of Glossary 103 ARM technology in action.
The Investor Relations Glossary and website can be found at www.
com ir Group directory 104 Key shareholder information 105 Group directory 2 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 ARMs strength is in the high calibre of its people and in the way in which they behave: fairly, honestly and with integrity.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 3 Chairmans introduction Our commitment to a strong and effective governance system Stuart Chambers This report explains the Boards continued Our values For more information on: commitment to maintaining excellent corporate Chairman ARMs strength is in the high calibre of its people, governance, corporate responsibility and the Leadership Page 8 and in the way in which they behave: fairly, honestly highest ethical standards.
The Chairman is and with integrity.
We ask all our employees to Effectiveness Page 10 responsible for leading the Board in promoting embody ARMs three core beliefs: encouraging Accountability Page 12 effective governance across our company, an teamwork, driving innovation and creativity, and Relations with shareholders Page 16 activity which is integral to ensuring that we helping everyone within the Group to reach their Remuneration Page 25 remain successful and sustainable whilst delivering full potential.
Each year all employees are required on our strategic objectives.
to confirm that they have read and understood the Our Strategy Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which The Board sets the Groups long-term strategy and Dear shareholder includes our Human Rights Policy.
We also ensure monitors, challenges and supports the work of the I would like to welcome you to ARMs 2015 that employees receive regular training on relevant Executive Committee in delivering that strategy.
It is now two legislation such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and years since I joined the Board and took over the global competition laws.
During 2015, the Board has built on the work we role of Chairman, and in that time the Board has undertook during 2014 on defining our shortand experienced significant change in its composition, as Our sustainability values are of great importance long-term strategic priorities at this important stage we position ARM to meet its shortand long-term to the way in which we work.
Full details of our in the Groups development.
We held two strategystrategic objectives.
In this introduction, I outline Corporate Responsibility CR strategy and focused meetings this year.
The Board has spent time the progress we have made during 2015 against the achievements can be found in the CR report considering how best to maintain and increase our priority areas that we identified during my first year whichdoes not form part of this report at growth in our core markets as well as accelerating as Chairman in 2014, and our plans for the future.
com j4kzjy4 and a summary of highlights gains in our share of new markets and emerging from the year are included in the CR section of technologies, which will be the cornerstone of ARMs Having a well-defined governance framework the Strategic Report on page 44.
In 2015, we are future success and long-term growth.
In our 2014 and operating with integrity in all we do is vital to continuing to offer the Annual Report as two Annual Report we identified these areas as including maintain the trust of investors, customers, our documents: firstly, a Strategic Report which contains the Internet of Things IoT, efficient networking, employees and other stakeholders.
The Board information about ARM, how we make money and ARM-powered servers and security applications, is keenly aware of its responsibility to provide how we run the business.
It includes an overview amongst others.
You can find more detail on ARMs leadership, operate with transparency and promote of our main markets, strategy, business model, key strategy and how we are delivering it on pages 9 to ethical behaviour and collaboration throughout the performance indicators and main areas of risk.
We seek to nurture a working environment The Governance and Financial Report gives more in which the highest standards of behaviour are detail on governance at ARM and our full accounts.
established, demonstrated and maintained in all our We believe that these two documents together fulfil activities.
This year, the first in which we are required current best practice guidelines and provide our to report against the updated UK Corporate stakeholders with a range of reporting options to Governance Code September 2014 the Code, suit their needs.
As ever we welcome any further we have taken the opportunity to restructure feedback and you can contact us via the investor the Corporate Governance section of our report relations website at www.
to align more closely with the main principles of the Code.
4 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Chairmans introduction continued Our governance framework Our Directors Stephen Pusey was most recently Chief Technology Our approach to risk Officer at Vodafone Group plc, retiring at its AGM 2015 has been a year of significant change in The Groups corporate governance framework is As a Board, we also have ultimate responsibility in 2015.
Prior to joining Vodafone, Stephen held the the composition of ARMs Board of Directors.
built around three pillars: for the Groups performance, for overseeing the positions of Executive Vice President and President On 30 June we said farewell to our Chief Financial management of risk and internal controls, and Nortel Networks EMEA, having joined Nortel in Officer, Tim Score, after 13 years of dedicated organisation, structure and processes: ensuring that the mitigation of the risks that we 1982.
He brings with him extensive experience in service.
During his tenure Tim oversaw a sustained face is at levels that are commensurate with the the internal control framework: and the technology sector.
You can read more about the increase in ARMs revenues, profits and returns, and nature of our business.
We seek to do this through independent assurance.
process by which we appointed Lawton and Stephen I would like to recognise Tims great contribution a strong and effective governance system and by in the Nomination Committee report on pages 23 to ARM over the years.
We were pleased to setting and following the standards that we expect The Board and its committee structure are the to 24. welcome Chris Kennedy as Chief Financial Officer from all our employees.
During 2015, in accordance mechanism through which we ensure that ARMs on 1 September.
Chris brings with him a wealth of with Code Provision C. 2.1 and the FRCs updated Following these changes, and the addition of John business runs smoothly and matters which are of international experience gained from over 20 years guidance on risk management and internal control, Liu to the Board which we reported in December strategic or operational importance are escalated spent in senior financial roles across a broad range of the Board carried out a robust assessment of the 2014, the composition of our Board reflects a strong to the relevant committee.
As the Group continues sectors, most recently at easyJet plc.
You can read more about balance between technology sector, commercial, to grow, we review and improve our governance how we identify and manage risks on pages 35 to 39 financial and general business skills, with a highly framework, taking into account legislation, As announced earlier in the year, on 31 December of our Strategic Report, about our risk management experienced international team leading the business regulations and best practice guidelines.
Kathleen ODonovan retired from her position on framework on pages 12 to 15 of this report, and in both executive and non-executive roles.
There are the Board after a tenure of nine years.
Once again, about how we carried out our risk assessment well-defined differences in roles between the I would like to thank Kathleen for her excellent activities in the Audit Committee report on pages For more information see: executive and non-executive directors and their contribution to the ARM Board over the past nine 18 to 21.
Our Board and its activities Page 6 combined contributions as an experienced but years and in particular for her exceptional leadership Audit Committee Page 18 healthily diverse board add value to the debate, of the Audit Committee.
We wish her well for the Nomination Committee Page 23 decision making and development of strategy that future.
Andy Green has succeeded Kathleen as are so crucial to the Groups success.
Remuneration Committee Page 25 Senior Independent Director.
Philip Davis took over the role of Company On 1 September, we welcomed two new nonSecretary in addition to his responsibilities as General executive directors.
Lawton Fitt fulfils the role of Counsel, following the retirement of Patricia Alsop financial expert in accordance with the Sarbanesin May 2015.
I would like to thank Patricia for her Oxley Act 2002 US and assumed the position of dedication and support during her 12 years at ARM.
Chairman of the Audit Committee upon Kathleen ODonovans retirement.
Lawton currently serves The roles and specific expertise of the current on the boards of several US-listed companies and members of our Board are set out on pages 6 and 7. has recent and relevant financial experience gained during her career in investment banking at Goldman Sachs and as Chair of the Audit Committee at Ciena Corporation.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 5 Remuneration During 2015, the global economic environment remained challenging and competitive.
The 2014 revisions to the Code introduced new The semiconductor industry in particular is provisions relating to the design of remuneration.
undergoing a period of significant change, including During the course of 2015, the Remuneration expansion in China as the country develops its Committee has spent time reviewing reward across own domestic industry, and consolidation across the Group to ensure optimal alignment to the ARM much of the rest of the world.
The Board played business strategy and core beliefs and promoting the an important role in ensuring that the Groups long-term success of the Group.
performance targets were achieved in the context of these challenges.
The reports from the various In our 2014 Annual Report, we set out proposals Board committees demonstrate that continuous for the Chief Financial Officers remuneration improvement of our governance framework package, which were in line with our approved remains a key focus for the Board.
We must always Remuneration Policy, and in the lead up to our be conscious of the fact that the Boards primary AGM in April 2015 we engaged with shareholders responsibility is to promote the long-term success of to address their concerns around the structure the Group for the benefit of customers, employees of the package.
After the AGM we continued and shareholders and I am confident that we are to engage with shareholders and receive their well positioned to continue to provide value to all feedback, which will be taken into account when our stakeholders.
You can read more about how we have engaged with our Stuart Chambers shareholders on the topic of remuneration, and our proposals for 2015 in the Remuneration report Chairman on pages 25 to 38.
We continue to be cognisant of 17 February 2016 the general sensitivity relating to executive director remuneration and are committed to the principle that there should be no reward forfailure.
6 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Our Board The experience Stuart Chambers 59 Simon Segars 48 Chairman Chief Executive Officer of the team Committees Committees Nomination Committee Chairman None ARMs Board has a good breadth and depth of experience which Current directorships Current directorships Rexam plc Chairman Global Semiconductor Alliance will help guide the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new EDA Consortium Time on Board opportunities and contend with new challenges.
Biographical details Dolby Laboratories, Inc. 2 years of the directors as at the date of this report are shown on the Time on Board Experience and expertise following pages: 11 years 1 month Stuart Chambers joined the Board as Chairman designate on 27 January 2014 and became Gender of the Board Chairman on 1 March 2014.
He brings a strong track record and a wealth of board and executive Experience and expertise experience both in the UK and globally.
Up to 2009, he was the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer on Sheet Glass Group, which acquired Pilkington plc in 2006, where he was Chief Executive.
His previous roles include President, leading the IP divisions and representing them Male Female the glass industry, Stuart held a number of senior positions at Mars, Inc. having previously spent on the Board, EVP and General Manager of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions and prior to ten years in several European roles at Royal Dutch Shell plc.
He has also served in the past as a that, EVP, Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Sales and EVP, Business Development.
He joined ARM in 80% 20% non-executive director on four other plc boards and chaired three remuneration committees.
early 1991 and worked on many of the early ARM CPU products.
He led the development of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb families.
He holds a number of patents in the field of embedded CPU architectures.
Sector experience of the board Financial Manufacturing 60% 40% Technology Retail Lawton Fitt 62 Andy Green 60 Independent Senior Independent 80% 40% Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Telecommunications Aviation Audit Committee Chairman from 1 January 2016 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee 60% 30% Current directorships Nomination Committee Ciena Corporation Current directorships Carlyle Group LP IG Group Holdings plc Chairman The Progressive Corporation Oil and gas Infrastructure Avanti Communications Group plc Time on Board 40% 30% DockOn AG Chairman 5 months Digital Catapult Limited Chairman Experience and expertise Time on Board Lawton Fitt joined the Board on 1 September 2015.
Lawton was previously an investment 5 years banker with Goldman, Sachs & Co. becoming a partner in 1994 and a managing director in 1996, before retiring in 2002.
She then served as Secretary CEO of the Royal Academy of Arts from Experience and expertise Tenure of the board Board tenure October 2002 to March 2005.
Lawton is currently an independent non-executive director of Andy Green joined the Board in February 2011.
He was CEO of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012 Ciena Corporation where she also chairs the audit committee, Carlyle Group LP and The and was on the board of BT Group plc from 2001 to 2007.
He is Deputy Chair of The Tech 1yr 3 Progressive Corporation: and she is a trustee of Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company, Partnership, President UK Space, and is on the board of the CBI.
He is a Companion of the having served on the board of Thomson Reuters Corporation until 2014.
He has attended audit, risk and remuneration committee 1-3yrs 2 meetings over many years during his executive roles and he currently chairs two nomination 3-6yrs 3 committees and is a member of a remuneration committee.
6yrs 2 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 7 Larry Hirst 64 John Liu 52 Independent Mike Muller 56 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Technology Officer Committees Committees Committees Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Risk Review Committee Chairman ARM Asia Advisory Group Current directorships Current directorships MITIE Group plc Current directorships Intelligent Energy plc Digital China Holdings Limited Trustonic Limited Time on Board China Eastern Airlines e-commerce Co Cambridge Innovation Capital plc 5 years 1 month Time on Board Time on Board Experience and expertise 1 year 2 months 14 years 4 months Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 2011.
He is the former Chairman of IBM Europe, MiddleEast and Africa.
He retired from IBM in 2010 having previously held a wide range of Experience and expertise Experience and expertise senior positions since joining the company in 1977.
He currently chairs the Imperial College Data John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 2014.
He is also a member of the Board of Trustees Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining the Group, he was responsible for Science Institute Advisory Board.
He is the Senior Independent Director at MITIE Group plc of Beijing Normal University Education Fund.
Former roles include senior executive positions in hardware strategy and the development of portable products at Acorn Computers.
He was and an Ambassador to Everywoman and Black British Business.
Former roles include being a UK various companies including as Corporate Vice President and Head of Greater China for Google previously at Orbis Computers.
At ARM he was VP, Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business Ambassador, a Commissioner for the Commission for Employment and Skills, and Chair Inc, China CEO of SK Telecom Co. Ltd in Korea and Country Director of Greater China of Business Development until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief Technology Officer.
of e-skills UK the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information Technology and he was Singapore Telecommunications Limited.
In October 2001, he was appointed to the Board.
also on the International Advisory Board for British Airways.
Stephen Pusey 54 Janice Roberts 60 Independent Independent Chris Kennedy 52 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Committees Committees Committees Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Risk Review Committee Remuneration Committee Current directorships Compliance Committee Centrica plc Current directorships Current directorships FireEye, Inc. Benhamou Global Ventures Partner The EMI Group Archive Trust RealNetworks, Inc. Time on Board Time on Board 5 months Zebra Technologies Corporation 5 months Ronald McDonald House, Stanford Experience and expertise Experience and expertise Stephen Pusey joined the Board on 1 September 2015.
Stephen was until recently Chief Time on Board Chris Kennedy joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 1 September 2015.
He brings to Technology Officer of Vodafone Group plc, retiring at Vodafones annual general meeting on 5 years 1 month ARM more than 20 years of international experience in senior financial roles in a broad range of 28 July 2015.
He joined Vodafone in September 2006 and joined the board in 2009.
Prior to sectors, most recently at easyJet plc where he was CFO from 2010 onwards and a key part of the Experience and expertise joining Vodafone, Stephen held the positions of Executive Vice President and President Nortel management team that transformed its performance.
Prior to this he worked at EMI plc and was Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 2011.
She is a Partner at Benhamou Global Ventures, Networks EMEA, having joined Nortel in 1982.
Stephen is also an independent non-executive appointed to the board of EMIs holding company, Maltby Ltd. in 2008 as CFO and then Chief, a Silicon Valley based venture capital firm, where she invests in early stage technology companies.
director of Centrica plc and of FireEye, Inc. Investment Officer.
Prior to that, she was a Managing Director of the Mayfield Fund from 2000 to 2013, where she invested in the mobile, wireless, communications and consumer technology industries.
Previously, she held various executive positions at 3Com Corporation, including President Palm Computing, President 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business Development and Global Marketing.
Prior to 3Com she was Managing Director of BICC Data Networks Ltd. 8 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Corporate governance A balanced Board structure This section and the Directors Remuneration report detail how the Group has applied the principles of good Structure of our Board and committees governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Code.
The Board is responsible for setting the level of delegated authority, whilst retaining overall responsibility for the governance of the Group.
The reporting structure and composition of our Board and committees is Compliance statement discussed in more detail on page 13.
The Group has complied with all the provisions of the Code throughout 2015 and to the date of this document.
Board attendance in 2015 Conference calls & Board Meetings ad hoc meetings The Group also achieved full compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act attended Board attended calls & 2002 US for the tenth successive year.
The Groups American Depositary Shares are listed on NASDAQ meetings eligible for meetings eligible for and we are therefore subject to and comply fully with NASDAQ rules, US Securities laws and Securities Number of scheduled meetings 5 6 and Exchange Commission rules to the extent that they apply to foreign private issuers.
We explain in the Stuart Chambers 5 5 6 6 reports below how we applied the provisions and principles of the FCA Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Simon Segars 5 5 6 6 Transparency Rules and the Code throughout the year.
Lawton Fitt appointed 1 September 2015 2 2 1 2 Andy Green 5 5 6 6 Code Principle: Leadership Larry Hirst 5 5 6 6 The Board is collectively responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business.
The Boards core Chris Kennedy appointed 1 September 2015 2 2 2 2 activities include: John Liu 5 5 5 6 providing leadership for the Group: Mike Muller 5 5 6 6 Stephen Pusey appointed 1 September 2015 2 2 2 2 setting and reviewing the Groups long-term strategy: Janice Roberts 5 5 6 6 monitoring executive management actions, standards of conduct, performance against business plans and Tim Score retired 30 June 2015 2 2 3 3 budgets, and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet Kathleen ODonovan retired 31 December 2015 4 5 6 6 its business strategy and objectives: obtaining assurance that material risks to the Group are identified, defining the Groups appetite for risk Board meetings and ensuring that appropriate systems of risk management and internal control exist to mitigate such risks: Board and committee papers are circulated electronically before each meeting, utilising an online portal planning Board and executive management succession: which also allows directors to share comments and items of interest.
The business considered at each Board meeting includes the Chief Executive Officers report on the status of the business incorporating industry responsibility for the long-term success of the Group having regard to the interests of all stakeholders: and and strategic developments and the Chief Financial Officers report incorporating financial, market and investor-related information.
On a cyclical basis, Board agendas also include detailed assessments of risk, responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our system ofcorporate governance.
governance, corporate responsibility, public affairs, performance of the business, competitive landscape, R&D and organisation succession planning.
Strategy-focused meetings are held at least twice per year.
In the event that a director is unable to attend a meeting or participate by conference call, they receive and read the documents for consideration at that meeting, and have the opportunity to relay their comments and, if necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 9 The non-executive directors are encouraged to suggest matters for Board discussions, and in 2015 they Board Activities during 2015 were active in contributing to the agenda for the strategy review and ensuring the amount of time spent on Activity Actions Progress Link to KPI strategic and operational issues was appropriately balanced.
Reviewed M&A Strategy and discussed potential Acquired Wicentric, Inc. in February 2015 acquisitions Acquired Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc. in April 2015 Acquired Discretix, Inc. trading as Sansa Security, Inc. During 2015, the non-executive directors supported the executive team to articulate and deliver the Groups in July 2015 strategy in relation to China, the IoT market and ARMs future investments.
Key senior executives attend Acquired trade and certain assets of Carbon Design Board meetings throughout the year, which gives the non-executive directors visibility of executive talent Systems, Inc. incl.
IP in October 2015 below executive director level, direct information about business developments, and informs them about Ongoing review of M&A activity potential management succession.
In particular, each year the general managers of the IP group present a Discussed the Groups capital structure, dividends and Buyback programme took place during 2015 to offset buyback policy the dilution effect of employee share awards.
review of past performance against key objectives and KPIs, and their proposals for the coming year.
Debated risk appetite and the development of risk Ongoing review of the CRR by the Risk Review During 2015, the Chairman held three meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives appetite statements against the corporate risk register Committee and creation of appropriate risk appetite present, and the non-executive directors met on one occasion without the Chairman being present.
CRR statements to ensure risk management is firmly In addition the Chairman had at least one face-to-face meeting individually with all directors of the Board and embedded within the business.
the Senior Independent non-executive Director SID also discussed the performance of the Chairman on an Assessment of the robustness and effectiveness of the CRR and surrounding processes.
individual basis with each of the non-executive directors.
Discussed global sales development New sales organisation structure implemented and targets set for 2015 and beyond.
Key performance indicators and linkage to bonus targets Conducted Board effectiveness review internal Priority areas for improvement identified and progress Key against 2014 priority areas measured.
Board met without Chairman present to discuss Gain or maintain market share Chairman effectiveness.
Increase value per smart device April Strategy meeting discussed new and emerging Creation of new incubation model.
Revenue technology segments and investment strategy Clarified investment strategy: identified and confirmed Generate new revenue streams Grow ARMs business by winning market market sectors of principal focus.
share, attracting new customers and entering Invest for the long term Discussed corporate responsibility strategy Deeper partnership with UNICEF.
new markets Agreed CR strategy and spending for 2015 and beyond.
Reviewed cyber risk and ARMs risk appetite in Various practical security enhancements implemented relation to cyber risk throughout 2015 and plans agreed for additional focus on key areas.
September Strategy meeting received presentations Agreed strategic objectives over a five-year horizon.
Normalised Operating Profit from Executive Committee members and external Agreed organisational strategy and proposed changes Generate increased returns for shareholders partners in China.
Discussed integration of acquisitions to organisational structure.
and succession planning Conducted visits to ARM partners and met with local management.
2016 budget submission Agreed budget proposal designed to achieve long-term growth in profits, earnings per share and cash returns.
10 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Corporate governance continued The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which was last reviewed Independence inFebruary 2016.
A copy of the schedule of matters reserved can be found on our website here: The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors on appointment and continues to do http: tinyurl.
com z4r36z9 so on an ongoing basis.
It is the policy of the Board to review the continued appointment of non-executive directors after six years service.
Kathleen ODonovan, having served for a total of nine years, retired from Board responsibilities the Board on 31 December 2015.
Two new independent non-executive directors have been appointed Title Name Key responsibilities during 2015.
Chairman Stuart Chambers Board leadership.
All our non-executive directors are regarded as independent in character, judgement and behaviour, based Building constructive relationships between executive and non-executive directors.
on both participation and performance at Board and Committee meetings.
There are no relationships or Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance circumstances that are likely to affect the judgement of any of them.
Stuart Chambers was regarded as throughout the Group.
independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
Chief Executive Simon Segars Executive Committee leadership.
Officer Day-to-day management of the Groups business.
Philip Davis took over the role of Secretary to the Board and Board committees from Patricia Alsop in Chief Financial Chris Kennedy Managing the financial aspects of the business.
May 2015 and all Board members have individual access to his advice.
He ensures that the Board receives Officer Strategy implementation, in collaboration with the CEO and other Executive all relevant information in a timely manner, organises induction and training programmes for new directors, Committee members.
and facilitates the Board evaluation in years when this is conducted internally.
He is also responsible for Independent Lawton Fitt Constructively challenging the Executive Committee in its delivery of the Groups ensuring that the correct Board and committee procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate Non-Executive Larry Hirst strategy within the established risk and governance framework.
The established procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, obtain Directors John Liu Reviewing and monitoring the integrity of all information including financial information Stephen Pusey which is made publicly available.
independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense is also administered through him.
Janice Roberts Ensuring appropriate succession plans are in place and are effective.
Code Principle: Effectiveness Establishing risk appetite and monitor risks.
Senior Independent Andy Green Acts as sounding board for the Chairman.
Director Providing a communication channel between the Chairman and the Board evaluation .
In accordance with Code Principles, the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual review of its Performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Our last externally facilitated review took place in 2013 with an internally facilitated review Available to discuss matters with shareholders, if required.
in 2014, and in light of the significant changes to Board composition during 2015 we decided once again to undertake an internal evaluation for this year.
We updated our Board effectiveness questionnaire, which was circulated as an online survey.
The focus of the 2015 evaluation was the extent of progress in relation to the action areas identified in the 2014 review, and the directors views on the key challenges the Group will face in 2016.
We intend to undertake an externally facilitated review during 2016.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 11 training and development recording training attendance and increase training opportunities: 2014 action areas identified Action taken in 2015 Ensuring that the Board and committees have the skills and Following a rigorous process undertaken by the Nomination focus of Board time specific topic sessions scheduled: experience they need going forward Committee, two new independent non-executive directors wereappointed, including Lawton Fitt as Chairman of the risk management streamline the presentation of information to the Board: and Audit Committee.
strategy review actions continued enhancement of strategy sessions.
Consideration was given to the composition of the Board Committees, and Stephen Pusey was appointed to the Remuneration Committee from 1 January 2016.
The Board continues to review the expertise and experience of Induction itsmembership, and to address any perceived gaps appropriately.
A personalised induction programme is arranged for new directors, tailored to their specific requirements, Further improving the culture and dynamics in the boardroom, The consensus from the 2014 Board evaluation was that culture the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge with each Board member developing a clear understanding of the and dynamics in the boardroom improved during 2014 and and understanding of the Group and its activities.
In 2015, this included comprehensive induction role of the Board and their individual role directors roles were better defined and understood.
In 2015, the programmes for Chris Kennedy, Lawton Fitt and Stephen Pusey.
Each director received a pack of information directors committed to spending more time together outside the upon appointment, which included information about the Group and industry environment in which it formal setting of the boardroom to enhance their relationships.
This was of particular importance in helping the newly appointed operates, policies and procedures, the Board programme and governance and risk structure.
This was directors to settle into their roles as quickly as possible and the followed up by site visits to Cambridge and San Jose at which individual meetings with key executives were 2015 evaluation found that the Board felt that the time spent on held.
Whilst all directors received information to help them gain a good understanding of the Groups building their relationships had been useful.
operations generally, Chris Kennedy and Lawton Fitts inductions were focused especially on the Groups Exiting 2015 with greater clarity and a more harmonised Board The consensus from the 2015 effectiveness review was that finance operations to enable them to fulfil their specific responsibilities more effectively.
Induction for the view on the long-term vision for the business and the consequent considerable progress had been achieved in this area as a result of strategic priorities the strong Board focus on strategic priorities in 2015.
However, directors who joined during 2015 is ongoing.
Continuing to enhance the induction and ongoing training process Directors attended various ARM events including the annual All members of the Board are encouraged to spend time outside Board meetings with members of the for Board members ARM Partner Meeting and the ARM TechCon, other industry Executive Committee and senior management and a number of individual meetings took place during 2015, events and external training courses.
In 2015 it was agreed which will continue during 2016.
All Board members are invited to attend the annual ARM Partner Meeting that attendance at events and training courses will be formally APM in the UK, which is the Groups key customer event of the year and or the ARM TechCon in the recorded.
It was decided that the induction process had operated well for the new non-executive directors.
Board members are also encouraged to attend the annual Capital Markets Day.
These events offer the opportunity to understand more about the business, products, technology development roadmap, customer base and investor perspective.
The 2015 evaluation covered: Training Board structure and dynamics: Board members receive guidance on the regulatory regimes and corporate governance framework that Board meetings: the Group operates under.
In April 2015 the Board received a regular annual update from the Company meeting administration: Secretary on current governance topics including executive remuneration and board diversity.
The Board also participated in a detailed workshop led by the Groups external auditors in July 2015, covering recent and Board Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination: forthcoming developments in corporate governance, audit, reporting, financial accounting and tax.
Each nonstrategy review: and executive director sits on at least one committee and each committee receives training relevant to its remit through the provision of workshops led by external advisers.
The Group has a commitment to training and risk management, corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
all directors, executive or non-executive, are encouraged to attend APM and TechCon in order to remain current with ARMs technology and Partners, as well as suitable training courses at the Groups expense.
The overall conclusion was that the directors are satisfied that the Board works well and operates effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the non-executive directors.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that the newly appointed directors in particular have quickly been able to make a valuable contribution.
There were certain areas for further action in 2016 as follows: 12 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Corporate governance continued Code Principle: Accountability Risk Management and Internal Control RMIC The ARM Management System AMS is the business management and governance system used across Risk management activities RMA : Risk in pursuit of vision and mission ARM.
It captures how we do business through delivery of our strategy and objectives, and details the internal Strategic planning aligned with ARM Management System controls that we need to manage risks to the longand short-term success of the business.
opportunity and risk management Internal controls Risk identification Key performance indicators AMS is extremely important for our customers, ecosystem, shareholders and people.
It provides confidence Risk assessment and key risk indicators that we can run this complex business in a robust way, deliver quality products that meet our customers Risk appetite needs, and ensure that the risks to achieving our business strategy and objectives are understood and managed.
AMS documents the details of our governance framework and covers the entire life cycle of risk management and internal control within ARM to: identify the risks that may impact the delivery or achievement of business strategy and objectives: design and operate the controls to manage the risks: Identify Operate monitor the design and operating effectiveness of the controls: and manage the design, residual risk treatment plans and corrective actions as necessary.
The diagram to the right illustrates the key principles associated with RMIC.
The over-arching principle of leadership and culture informs all of our work on RMIC and our internal and external assurance approach assesses the degree to which the desired behaviours and risk culture are embedded within all our business Leadership processes.
We firmly believe that a strong and well communicated culture of openness and transparency is and culture our best and most fundamental defence against the principal risks toARMs business.
The AMS design, which includes financial, compliance and operational controls, is fully documented and compliance is monitored through audits and periodic controls testing during each year.
The effectiveness of individual controls is also reviewed with their owners within the operations and functions of the Group to ensure efficacy and relevance.
The Business Assurance and Internal Audit function reports on the design Manage Monitor and operating effectiveness of the AMS to the Audit Committee at least twice each year.
The Compliance and Audit Committees also monitor the satisfactory remediation of any identified control issues with Group level significance.
The Group fully complies with the Codes provisions on RMIC, having established procedures to implement in full the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Manage residual risk Assurance of RMA Risk treatment plans Assurance scoped against RMA Group operations and functions objectives Annual internal audit plan Corrective actions Design and operating effectiveness Internal control design Committees and governance teams ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 13 Key objectives: to make Key objectives: to oversee compliance Compliance Committee recommendations to the Board for Nomination Committee throughout the business with all future appointments to ensure that One executive director, relevant international regulations Four directors three Chairman the Board comprises individuals four other Executive and ensure effective review independent non-executive with appropriate skills, knowledge Stuart Chambers Committee members and of AMS, internal controls and and experience to be effective in directors and Chairman corrective actions.
discharging its responsibilities and Stuart Chambers Chairman Philip Davis toreview succession planning.
Key objectives: leadership, operation and governance of the Board.
Key objectives: to provide effective financial governance and to assist the Board in ensuring the integrity of the Audit Committee Groups financial reporting.
To provide Three directors two oversight for the external and internal independent non-executive audit processes, to review the risk Board directors and Chairman management and internal control Ten directors three Lawton Fitt framework and the effectiveness executive directors, of risk management processes and Key objectives: to focus on strategy, the Chairman and internal controls.
Executive Committee the day-to-day running of the six independent business, financial and competitive 13 members including the non-executive directors performance, organisational executive directors, key development, succession planning group and function heads.
Chairman Simon Segars Key objectives: to review and make Key objectives: the overall conduct of recommendations to the Board on the Groups business and setting the Remuneration Committee executive remuneration regarding Groups strategy.
Four directors three the appropriate level for executive directors salaries, annual bonus independent non-executive targets and performance measures directors and Chairman for senior management shareLarry Hirst based compensation.
Disclosure Committee Twoexecutive directors, the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and three senior executives.
Key objectives: to manage the process Risk Review Committee Chairman Simon Segars to identify and evaluate risks which Key objectives: to manage the Groups may impact the Groups business Two executive directors, Chief Executive Officer business and, with the Executive strategy and objectives, to oversee four other Executive Committee, to implement Group risk treatment plans designed to Simon Segars Committee members and strategy, objectives and policies.
mitigate residual risk, and to review Key objectives: ensures that three senior executives.
disclosures to shareholders are Chairman Mike Muller accurate, complete and fairly presentthe Groups financial position.
14 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Corporate governance continued across the business.
Residual risks are assessed in and refined during 2016.
During 2015, the Board In accordance with the new provisions contained of which is to monitor and control all main business terms of likelihood and impact on the basis that confirmed that the level of residual risk is regarded in the Code, the Board has conducted a robust activities and consider any other matters requiring the risk management activities assigned to them as acceptable and within normal parameters for a assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, approval.
Topics reviewed include revenues, are operating effectively and an overall RAG Red, company operating in ARMs sphere of business.
and have explained how they have assessed the orders booked, costs, product and project delivery Amber, Green rating is generated, taking the risk prospects of the Group, over what period they dates, and levels of defects found in products in appetite statement into account where appropriate.
Compliance Committee have done so and why they consider that period development.
Relevant issues are escalated to the Each risk on the CRR is owned by a member of to be appropriate in the Longer-Term Viability Executive Committee which, in turn, raises relevant The Compliance Committee oversees compliance the Executive Committee.
Risk treatment plans Statement which can be found on page 35 of the issues to the Board.
throughout the business with all relevant are managed within the relevant objectives of Strategic Report.
standards, international regulations and trading The Audit Committee has reviewed and approved the Groups operations and functions.
Risks are requirements, amongst them: direct oversight of the system of RMIC, including internal controls identified through senior management discussion Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley internal controls, financial, employment, health over the consolidation process and financial top down and regular reporting from every part of Act 2002 US has been successfully achieved for each and safety, environmental, business continuity, reporting, which have been in place for the year the business bottom up.
financial year since it became effective for foreign customer satisfaction and security processes and under review and up to the date of approval of the private issuers in 2006.
This is reported on in more policies.
The Compliance Committee reports to the Annual Report and financial statements, and has The Risk Review Committee typically meets on detail in the Annual Report on Form 20-F that is filed Executive Committee and to the Audit Committee described its findings on pages 19 and 20 of the Audit a quarterly basis to review the CRR and ensure with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
throughout the year and its minutes are reviewed by Committee report.
that it remains live to the changing risk profile of the Audit Committee and the Board.
Committee and management structure the business.
Each risk owner is required to review The committee structure through which the More information on industry trends and associated and demonstrate that risks are being appropriately Disclosure Committee Board ensures that the Groups RMIC framework risks and opportunities are included in the risk managed via the internal controls and risk treatment The Disclosure Committee is responsible for is designed and operating effectively is shown on management and principal risks section of the plans, which are normally updated bi-annually.
ensuring that disclosures made by the Group to page 13.
The Board delegates responsibility for Strategic Report on pages 35 to 39 and in the its shareholders and the investment community reviewing and monitoring the Groups internal Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended At each meeting, the Board and the Audit are accurate, complete and fairly present the controls to the Audit Committee and in turn the 31 December 2015 which is available on the Groups Committee receive copies of the minutes of the Groups financial condition in all material respects.
Compliance and Risk Review Committees report to website at http: tinyurl.
com hp66mpg and does not Risk Review Committee.
These provide additional The Disclosure Committee includes the Chairman the Executive Committee with specific items such as form part of this Annual Report.
visibility of the range of risks, the ways in which and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the whistleblowing and effectiveness of internal controls such risks are managed, and management of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and also being reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk Review Committee risk treatment plans to further mitigate where meets immediately prior to each quarterly results Together these committees are responsible for judged necessary.
The Risk Review Committee Strategic and operational risks are identified, announcement or more often as needed to consider identifying and assessing risks which may impact the reports formally on the CRR to the Executive prioritised and reported on within the Corporate and approve any disclosures.
Groups business strategy and objectives, and for Committee twice a year, where its findings are Risk Register CRR.
The CRR includes a description monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and considered and challenged.
These reports form of the overall risk, the risk factors, the risk owner and Business Assurance and Internal progress of risk treatment plans designed to further the basis of regular reporting on principal risks at the risk management activities including operational Audit function mitigate the residual risk, if judged necessary.
Board level, and facilitate the Boards assessment and oversight activities as defined in the three The remit of the Business Assurance and Internal of the principal risks facing the Group.
The CRR, lines of defence model.
The three lines of defence Audit function is to provide assurance that the risk In addition, there are various committee, governance risk appetite and plans for further enhancing the are defined as operational controls first line, risk management and internal controls are designed review team and operational review meetings that Groups risk management framework in 2016 were management and compliance activities second and operating effectively and that corrective action span the Group.
These include the regular Executive reviewed by the Board in July and again in November line, and independent sources of assurance such as is being taken in a timely manner.
Each year, the Committee meetings chaired by the Chief Executive 2015 and are an integral part of monitoring the internal audit third line.
During 2015 the CRR was Internal Audit function develops an annual audit Officer and the weekly Business Review Meeting development and implementation of the Groups refined with the addition of risk appetite statements plan.
The annual audit plan is agreed by the Audit chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, the purpose strategy.
Risk appetite will continue to be discussed to reflect the acceptance of differing levels of risk Committee, which monitors execution of the plan ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 15 Anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures we conduct our operations, and designates contact throughout the year.
Audits are designed to assess Internal control management systems are designed points within the senior executive team for any the design and operating effectiveness of controls to manage rather than eliminate the risk inherent The Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, employee to seek advice on any issue that might have and recommend improvements in related processes in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, which is available on the Groups website, and the human rights implications.
therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute Company Rules incorporate appropriate provisions assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to meet our obligations under the UK Bribery Act The Group strives for equal opportunities for all its The Group has certification for ISO 9001 the 2010.
A training and communication programme for During 2015, an externally facilitated review of employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, international standard for Business Quality all employees is in place to ensure that employees the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function or discrimination against, its staff.
A more detailed Management, ISO 22301 Business Continuity understand the requirements of the Act and the took place which concluded that the Internal Audit description of our policies on diversity and equal and ISO 27001 Information Security, which was reporting procedures.
Tailored communications function delivers appropriate assurance across the opportunities is included in the Directors report maintained throughout the year and was audited by are directed at employees in roles or working in business efficiently and effectively.
The Group endeavours to be honest Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA.
countries that are regarded as higher risk.
focus were identified and these will be considered and fair in its relationships with its customers To demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanesby management as part of the business planning and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen, Arrangements with contractors and suppliers have Oxley Act, the Internal Audit function also maintains process, to ensure that the Internal Audit function respecting the laws of the countries in which been and will continue to be reviewed and updated the documented controls over financial reporting remains effective as the business continues to grow.
to reflect the requirements of the Bribery Act.
and confirms the operation of them either by direct The Compliance Committee oversees the reporting testing or through a monitored self-assessment Whistleblowing procedures Environmental, social, corporate governance procedures and monitors and escalates reports in programme.
The management system is audited and ethical policies The Group operates a whistleblowing policy appropriate circumstances.
There were no reports externally by LRQA, who support our COSO for employees to confidentially report concerns of concern during 2015 or up to 15 February 2016, Whilst the Group is accountable to its shareholders, 2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of about any unethical business practices to senior being the latest practicable date before the printing it also endeavours to take into account the the Treadway Commission entity level controls management in strict confidence and without fear of this report.
interests of all its stakeholders, including and corporate integrity assessment, which of recrimination, via a number of routes.
The policy employees, customers and suppliers and the local covers FRC guidelines on embedding risk culture.
was last reviewed and updated during 2014 with the Human rights and equal opportunities communities and environments in which it operates.
The effectiveness of the controls over financial aim of increasing employees understanding of the The ChiefExecutive Officer and the Chief Financial The Group has signed the Universal Declaration of reporting is also monitored by the Audit Committee, circumstances in which they should raise concerns Officer take responsibility for these matters, which Human Rights and has integrated relevant human which receives regular reports of the testing and the process to do this, and during 2015 the are considered at Board level.
Full details of our CR rights principles into its policies for employees and conducted by internal and external auditors.
effectiveness of the 2014 update was reviewed by strategy and achievements can be found in the main contractors.
There is growing interest worldwide in the Compliance Committee.
The Audit Committee CR report which does not form part of this Annual the issue of the impact of business on human rights.
Any significant control failings identified through receives details of any whistleblowing reports from Report on our website http: tinyurl.
com j4kzjy4 the Internal Audit function or the external auditors the Compliance Committee.
and a summary of highlights from the year are As a result of our work in 2013 with Shift, a specialist are brought to the attention of the Compliance included in the Sustainability section of the Strategic NGO working on business and human rights, we Committee and undergo a detailed process of There was one whistleblowing report in 2015, which Report on page 44.
Following the publication of the are confident that our risk in this area remains evaluation of both the failing and the steps taken was not found to involve any financial or other loss United Nations Sustainable Development Goals low.
More detail is provided in our supplemental to remedy it.
There were no significant control to the Group.
It was thoroughly investigated and SDGs in September 2015, our CR report will CR reporting which can be found on our website failures during 2015 or up to 15 February 2016, being it was deemed appropriate that no further action describe how we are responding to, and aligning with here: http: tinyurl.
com j4kzjy4 We have adopted the latest practicable date before the printing of was taken.
In 2016 to date there have been no the SDGs.
a specific Human Rights Policy within our Code this report.
of Business Conduct and Ethics, in addition to our existing policies on conflict minerals, business ethics, discrimination and export controls.
Our Human Rights Policy underlines our commitment to aim to avoid any adverse impact on human rights in the way 16 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Corporate governance continued All resolutions proposed at the 2016 AGM will Code Principle: Relations with shareholders Members of the Board develop an understanding be decided on a poll and the voting results will be ofthe views of major shareholders through any published via RNS and the SEC, and made available direct contact that may be initiated by shareholders, Investor relations on the Groups website at http: tinyurl.
or through analysts and brokers briefings.
The Board makes considerable efforts to establish Details of the resolutions that will be proposed The Board also receives feedback from the Groups and maintain good relationships with shareholders at the 2016 AGM can be found in the Directors brokers and financial PR advisers, who in turn and the wider investment community.
There is reportdisclosures starting on page 44. obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following regular dialogue with institutional investors during investor roadshows.
All shareholders can register to the year, except during close periods.
The main receive the Groups press releases via the internet channel of communication continues to be through here: http: tinyurl.
the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
AGM The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director The Board actively encourages participation at and the other directors are available to engage in the AGM, scheduled for 28 April 2016, which dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
The Circular and Notice of AGM are The Board encourages communication with being sent to shareholders concurrently with the private investors and part of the Groups website is distribution of this Report, which is well in advance dedicated to providing information for all investors, of the required 21 clear days before the meeting.
including responses to frequently asked questions, At the AGM, a presentation is made outlining the investment case, product information, press recent developments in the business and an open releases, RNS and SEC announcements, and the question-and-answer session follows to enable Annual Report.
shareholders to ask questions about the business in general.
The Chairman, who chairs the Nomination At present, over 29 sell-side analysts write research Committee, will be present at the AGM.
He will reports on the Group and their details appear on arrange for the respective Chairmen of the Audit the Groups website.
Shareholders can also obtain and Remuneration Committees to be available to telephone numbers from the website, enabling answer questions and for all directors to attend.
them to listen to earnings presentations and audio conference calls with analysts.
In addition, webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations are made available through the website.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 17 We are committed to assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, audit processes, risk management and internal control.
18 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Audit Committee report Lawton Fitt Committee membership and responsibilities The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to During 2015, the Chairman of the Committee and the Board on a regular basis on how the committee the external audit partner again organised a meeting Committee Chairman Lawton Fitt became Chairman of the Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
for the UK-based  LLP on 1 January 2016, succeeding Kathleen ODonovan PwC audit and tax teams and the ARM finance who chaired the Committee from 31 January 2011 The Chairman of the Committee also has separate and tax teams to discuss the audit approach, to until 31 December 2015.
Lawton is qualified as meetings with the VP Business Assurance & Head understand the planning for the year end, and to gain the Committee financial expert as defined in the of Internal Audit, the Chairman of the Risk Review insights into the corporate governance environment, Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US and has recent and Committee, the external auditors, the Chief Financial updates to financial reporting requirements and the relevant financial expertise in compliance with the Officer, the General Counsel & Company Secretary, Groups expectations from the internal and external Code provision C3.1 and DTR 7.1.
1 R. Our external the Chief Information Officer, the VP Investor audit processes.
We consider this to be a valuable auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Relations and the VP Finance, ARM Group during exercise which gives the ARM finance team and the Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP the year.
This is to discuss their ongoing work and external auditors the opportunity to reflect on the Business Assurance & Head of Internal Audit, the any areas of concern, to enable certain members previous years audit and helps to ensure that our Head of Tax and the General Counsel & Company of management to report on key areas of risk and audit processes are continually improved.
Secretary are invited to attend all meetings in order control and to ensure that the agendas of the Audit to ensure that all the information required by the Committee reflect developments in the business.
Committee for it to operate effectively is available.
The Group Chairman and other Board members Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2015 also attend Committee meetings from time to time.
Meetings In conjunction with each meeting, representatives of attended eligible Name of director Position the Groups external auditors have a private session meetings with the Committee, without other management Lawton Fitt Independent non-executive director, Committee Chairman appointed 1 September 2015 from 1 January 2016 3 3 beingpresent.
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 7 7 Andy Green Senior Independent Director 7 7 Kathleen ODonovan retired 31 December 2015 Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 7 7 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 19 managements assessment that, after considering to achieving reliable business performance and we Principal activities the process and procedures whereby employees various scenarios incorporating various sensitivity have an established process to identify and manage can raise concerns regarding potential Principal activities of the Committee during 2015 and stress tests, no impairment in carrying value risk within the business.
The Audit Committee impropriety: and were the monitoring and reviewing of: was required: oversees the design and effectiveness of this the effectiveness of the Audit Committee and our process: we will continue to focus on challenging and the integrity of the financial statements own Terms of Reference.
consideration of managements judgement improving it throughout the year.
You can read more of the Group, including any significant regarding the level of provision required to be about our principal risks on pages 35 to 39 of the reporting judgements: The integrity of financial reporting and carried in relation to ongoing litigation involving Strategic Report.
review of significant issues either the Group or its licensees, and in particular any formal announcements of the Groups financial where the Group may be required to indemnify performance and the clarity of disclosures: The Committee reviewed the integrity of the We are pleased with the progress and its licensees, including receiving regular updates financial statements of the Group and all formal the Groups risk management framework and improvements achieved in 2015 as described in from the Groups General Counsel: announcements relating to the Groups financial internal controls and the effectiveness of the the Corporate Governance report on pages 12 performance.
Each quarter, the Committee consideration of the key judgements made Groups internal controls over financial reporting: to 15: however, we believe that there is no room reviewed accounting papers prepared by in estimating the Groups tax charge and for complacency when managing risk and internal the status of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance: management on areas of financial reporting review of any provisions in respect of ongoing controls in a fast-moving business environment and judgement.
These included: the framework for ensuring compliance with legal tax matters, together with assessment from work in these areas will be ongoing in 2016 and requirements, accounting standards, the Listing independent experts: beyond.
We have seen continued improvement consideration of the accounting treatment of Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in the transparency and active ownership of risk consideration of the Groups tax strategy and key substantial transactions, including any judgemental and the requirements of the SEC: management throughout the organisation, driven developments that may influence the Groups matters in relation to revenue recognition for and supported by a strong tone at the top and the the assessment of Going Concern and the Longer global tax position: major licence contracts with customers, which growing strength of the assurance provided by the Term Viability Statement, in advance of their concluded that revenue had been accounted review of reports from the Compliance and three lines of defence model.
consideration by the Board: for appropriately: Risk Review Committees as regards any matters whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken relevant to the financial reporting of the Group: consideration of the identification of the Groups The COSO framework of internal control as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: and operating segments and cash generating units and continues to be embedded across the organisation.
presentation of non-reportable segments of the The processes and procedures for identifying, the work and results of Business Assurance and consideration of the accounting treatment Group which concluded that the business still has evaluating and managing the significant business, Internal Audit in relation to the 2015 Audit Plan applied to intangible assets, including goodwill, one reportable segment: operational, financial, compliance and other risks and approving the 2016 Audit Plan: on acquisitions.
have been successfully integrated into day-toreview of the Adjusted Performance Measures the effectiveness and integrity of the 2015 external day business operations through our business The effectiveness of risk management and APMs used by the Group and referred to as audit process: including assessing the external management and governance system known as AMS internal controls normalised performance measures.
Our aim is auditors independence and objectivity, the and the associated Audit Assurance System.
2015 was the first reporting period in which the to ensure they are properly derived, consistently effectiveness of the audit process and fees, the Board was required to comply with the 2014 treated and transparently presented, and are engagement of the external auditors to supply The AMS is fully documented and compliance is revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, appropriately balanced with regard to the non-audit services and assessing their nature, monitored through audits and periodic controls which included a new requirement at C. 2.1 to required IFRS measures: extent and cost effectiveness: as well as making testing during each year.
The effectiveness of conduct a robust assessment of the principal risks recommendations to the Board in relation to the consideration of the judgements surrounding individual controls is also reviewed with their owners facing the Company, including those that would appointment, remuneration and resignation or the goodwill impairment reviews performed within the operations and functions of the Group threaten its business model, future performance, dismissal of the Groups external auditors: in the fourth quarter of 2015.
In light of the to ensure efficacy and relevance.
The Business solvency or liquidity.
The Board has always believed continuing strong performance of the Group in Assurance function reports on the status of the that an effective and robust risk management the year, the Committee was comfortable with AMS to the Audit Committee at least twice each framework and system of internal control is essential 20 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Audit Committee report continued balanced and understandable and provides the During the year we reviewed PwCs audit strategy, year.
The Compliance and Audit Committees relationships were managed between the Business information necessary for shareholders to assess the the audit approach, key areas of focus, materiality also monitor the satisfactory remediation of any Assurance team and the Compliance and Risk Groups performance, business model and strategy.
PwC explained its risk-based identified control issues with Group-level significance.
Review Committees, the external auditors PwC approach, including the interaction with its work on and LRQA.
Compliance with the Listing Rules of the internal control for the purposes of expressing an The Audit Committee has conducted a review As well as the committees formal meeting with the FCA, the UK Corporate Governance Code opinion under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley of the effectiveness of the Companys risk VP Business Assurance & Head of Internal Audit, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act US Act.
The results of those procedures were reported management and internal control systems which the Chairman of the committee met with him in November and December 2015 and January and included consideration of how risks are identified The Audit Committee has reviewed the framework informally throughout the year in order to provide February 2016.
No material misstatements remained and evaluated, how mitigation plans are created, for ensuring compliance with the legal requirements the opportunity for open and timely dialogue.
unadjusted in the financial statements.
executed and monitored, and has accountability of the FCA, SEC and UK Corporate Governance Typically there is a discussion about the content for risk mitigation is established.
Throughout 2015, the Group complied and quality of papers intended for the committee, In addition to the private meetings held with the which the Committee reviews covers all sources fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code emerging business risks, the quality of engagement external auditors and the Committee, the Chairman of assurance and a quarterly update on progress September 2014, the UK Listing Rules, Disclosure with Internal Audit and any concerns that may of the Committee meets with the PwC team on a against plan is provided.
We reported to the Board and Transparency Regulations and also with the have arisen.
regular basis to provide the opportunity for an open on any relevant matters.
There were no significant Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
communication regarding any concerns, as well as to internal control failings or weaknesses which it was Fair, balanced and understandable understand their assessment of key judgements as considered necessary to report.
Going concern and longer-term viability they arise.
ARMs annual report takes a large part of the year In advance of the consideration by the Board of its The work of Business Assurance & to complete: from concept to design and image going concern evaluation, the Audit Committee InternalAudit External auditor effectiveness and selection to content development, authoring and reviewed the 2016 budget and longer-term plans and partnerrotation reviewing.
A small core team creates the design and ARMs Internal Audit function develops an annual considered any reasonably likely scenarios that may most of the content, and they call on colleagues PwC have been the Groups auditors since it listed audit plan to provide assurance that controls occur.
In 2015, the Committee also considered for across the business to add key insights and details.
on the London Stock Exchange in April 1998. are designed and operating effectively and that the first time the proposed Longer-Term Viability The report is continually reviewed throughout its The external auditors are required to rotate corrective action is being taken where necessary.
Statement LTVS and reviewed the analysis which planning and development stage by a wide range the audit partner responsible for the Group and supported the time period on which the LTVS is In 2015, we engaged KPMG to conduct a review of of internal and external experts.
Together, they subsidiary audits every fifth year end.
The last based including the assumptions and qualifications the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and endeavour to ensure that ARMs annual report is a audit partner rotation took place early in 2012. underlying the stress-testing and scenario analysis.
put forward proposals for enhancing the function to fair reflection of its business and industry context: The Committee considers that the relationship The Committee is satisfied that, at the time of ensure that it remains fit for purpose as the business it is balanced, with emphasis on both the future with the auditors is working well and remains approving the financial statements, it is appropriate grows.
The review concluded that the Internal Audit opportunities and risks the business faces: and it satisfied with their objectivity and effectiveness.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the function delivers appropriate assurance across the is concise and understandable to a broad range of The Committee is also satisfied with the quality of financial statements of both the Group and the business efficiently and effectively.
Some areas of readers with different backgrounds, knowledge levels challenge, scepticism and execution by the auditors parent Company and that the LTVS is appropriate.
focus were identified and these will be considered and requirements.
and this view is supported by a review of the This view was supported by a sensitivity analysis and by management as part of the business planning effectiveness of the external audit process, which stress tests which showed that, across the three-year process, to ensure that the Internal Audit function In line with the requirement in the Code: based was undertaken in December 2015 and reported on timeframe of the LTVS even extreme assumptions in remains effective.
We also reviewed the resources on internal audit reviews and confirmations from in January 2016 involving Board members and senior the stress test did not alter the conclusion.
of the team, the plans for their deployment during management, the Committee and the Board believe managers who interact with the auditors.
The review the year and the manner in which key working that the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, was conducted with reference to the best practice External audit plan and approach ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 21 auditors to perform work on matters relating to guidance contained in the FRCs Audit Quality in any way.
There are no contractual obligations benchmarking of the Internal Audit function, human practice aid, which was published in May 2015 and restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
A breakdown of fees looked at the robustness of the audit, and the quality The Committee also keeps under review the value paid to the auditors can be found in note 5 to the of delivery, people and service.
The conclusion was for money of the audit.
that the auditors are effective.
Policy on auditors providing non-audit services Lawton Fitt Tenure of external auditors Committee Chairman The Committee has considered the 2014 To avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity amendments to the EU Statutory Audit Directive and independence being compromised, there 17 February 2016 the Directive with regard to audit tenure, which is an agreed policy in place on the provision of will come into force on 16 June 2016 and mandate non-audit services by the auditors, which sets out a maximum audit tenure of 10 years, subject to arrangements for approving: certain exceptions.
On the basis of the Committees services that require general pre-approval by continued satisfaction with the performance and the Committee: effectiveness of PwC as described above, it has not considered it necessary to date to require the services that require specific pre-approval by the firm to tender for the audit work.
The Committees Committee before work commences: and expectation remains that it will conduct an audit services that cannot be provided by the auditors.
This non-audit services policy is reviewed annually.
Auditor independence The Committee has discussed the anticipated The auditors are required to, and do, communicate effects of the amendments to the Directive and will with the Committee at least annually as to whether ensure that the non-audit services policy remains there are any threats to their independence and fully compliant with transposition of the Directive objectivity and, if there are, what safeguards have into UK legislation.
The Groups tax advisory work is been applied.
The Committee has reviewed the carried out by the auditors only in cases where they auditors transparency report, paying particular are deemed to be best suited to perform the work attention to the sections covering internal controls, in a cost-effective manner, given their familiarity with independence policies and the results of external the Groups business.
In other cases, the Group has regulator reviews.
Having reviewed the safeguards in engaged another independent firm of accountants place, and the contents of the transparency report, to perform tax advisory work.
The Group does as well as noting the regular and recent rotation of not normally award general consulting work to the the audit partner, the Committee is satisfied that auditors.
Consulting work by PwC in respect of the the auditors procedures are sufficient to maintain Groups procurement model, which commenced and their independence and objectivity.
The Committee was reported on during 2014, was finalised at the has also considered the level of non-audit fees and beginning of 2015.
No other consulting work took believes that these are at a level which does not place.
From time to time, the Group will engage the compromise their objectivity or independence 22 22 ARM Go ARM Gov ver ernanc finance and Financ e and Financial R ial Repor eport 2015 t 2015 The Nomination Committees goal is to ensure that the Board and its committees comprise individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to maximise effectiveness in discharging its duties.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 23 Nomination Committee report Stuart Chambers Nomination Committee effectiveness At the end of 2014, the Board agreed that we should In addition to leading the process for Board review the composition of each of the standing appointments and making recommendations to Nomination Committee Chairman 2015 activities committees and make recommendations for any the Board in relation to new appointments, the The Committee continually reviews the skills, improvements which we identified.
During 2015, Committee also has a responsibility to contribute experience and attributes of the current we recommended the following appointments to towards the Boards development of an orderly directors, which informs the qualities to be sought committees in conjunction with the Chairmen of succession plan for the appointment of directors and when making future director appointments.
It was appropriate to involve Our goal remains to ensure that the Board and its the whole Board in this process and in September committees comprise individuals with the requisite John Liu appointed to the Nomination 2015, the Board received a comprehensive skills, knowledge and experience to maximise Committee 5 February 2015 presentation on succession planning.
Following that effectiveness in discharging its duties.
In 2015, we session, the Nomination Committee met and finalised the appointment of our new CFO and Lawton Fitt appointed to the Audit discussed succession for each of the most senior made two appointment recommendations to the Committee 1 September 2015 Chairman from appointments and a number of actions were agreed Board.
The search for a replacement for Kathleen 1 January 2016 and will be taken forward during 2016.
ODonovan as Chairman of the Audit Committee Stephen Pusey appointed to the Remuneration commenced in February 2015.
Having entered into Committee 1 January 2016 discussions with a number of external search firms, we appointed Zygos Partnership to lead the search in April 2015.
After a rigorous search process we Nomination Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2015 recommended the appointment of Lawton Fitt Meetings to the Board.
We also identified the need for a attended eligible Name of director Position meetings greater degree of technology expertise amongst the Stuart Chambers Chairman 4 4 independent non-executive directors, and, following Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director retired 31 December 2015 4 4 support from Lygon Group, we recommended the appointment of Stephen Pusey to the Board.
Independent non-executive director Senior Independent Director Andy Green from 1 January 2016 4 4 There is no connection between the Group, or any individual director and either Zygos Partnership or John Liu Independent non-executive director appointed 5 February 2015 4 4 Lygon Group.
24 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Nomination Committee report continued Diversity The Board currently comprises three executive The split for 2015 hires by gender is as follows: directors, the Chairman and six independent The Committee notes the findings of the fifth non-executive directors.
At the year end there annual progress report by Lord Davies in respect of Men 81% were eight men 80% and two women 20% the proposals originally put forward in the Davies Women 19% which broadly reflects the gender diversity of ARMs Review of 2011.
We recognise the importance workforce as a whole.
Other measures of diversity, of promoting gender equality on boards and such as tenure and industry experience are shown throughout businesses.
We believe that diversity should be considered Stuart Chambers broadly, as well as focusing on gender.
It is important to achieve the correct balance of skills, knowledge Chairman For the Board and experience on the Board, throughout senior 17 February 2016 management and across the organisation as a whole.
Men 80% As of the 31 December 2015, the gender splits Women 20% We will continue to make Board appointments for the Group are as follows: on merit and also to value diversity in its broadest context.
In summary, we are committed to recruitment which is based on equal opportunities for all, irrespective of age, gender, race, colour, disability, religious affiliation, sexual orientation or marital status.
During 2016, the Committee will For Senior Managers continue to review the composition of the Board and its committees to ensure that we continue to Men 87% maintain, collectively, a highly effective Board.
Women 13% For all ARM established employees does not include contractors Men 83% Women 17% ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 25 Directors Remuneration report Larry Hirst Dear Shareholder The ARM Remuneration Policy received a 97% The Remuneration Committee has discussed the vote in favour at the 2014 AGM, which we believe feedback received and understands the position of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present you with ARMs reflected shareholders approval of a remuneration shareholders on this issue.
The committee will take Remuneration report for 2015. policy that drives performance, is aligned with Group the feedback provided into account in the event of strategy and shareholder value, and that is fair to both future executive director recruitment.
In 2015, the committee has continued to work executives and shareholders.
In this context, the 68% to ensure that a consistent policy on pay applies support for the annual report on Remuneration at the We are aware of shareholders preference that across the Group and we have spent time 2015 AGM was a disappointing outcome.
companies should not make frequent changes to reviewing the design of reward applicable to policy and we will propose changes only if we believe employees both at and below executive director Our engagement with shareholders prior to the AGM that they would lead to better alignment between level.
Our aim is to ensure that remuneration indicated concerns about the structure of recruitment pay, strategy and long-term business performance.
policies and practices remain competitive within buy-out awards for our new Chief Financial Officer, No changes are proposed for 2016 and we intend to our industry to attract the best talent, whilst Chris Kennedy, as disclosed in the 2014 Annual bring our updated Remuneration Policy to the 2017 driving behaviours that are in the long-term Report.
In particular, there were concerns that AGM for approval.
Accordingly, we will consult with interests of the Group and itsshareholders.
part of the award was in cash subject to clawback shareholders in the second half of 2016. and that none of the award was subject to explicit performance conditions.
At a glance Remuneration Strategy Our principles The key focus of remuneration at ARM is long-term performance The Groups strategy and business objectives are the primary and delivery of value to shareholders.
considerations when selecting appropriate performance measures for our incentive plans.
Executive director reward: Remuneration packages should be as simple as possible, whilst still Fixed taking into account the scale and complexity of the business and Salaries, pensions and benefits are appropriately competitive but the requirements of investors.
For this reason, generally only two are generally no higher than market median.
incentive plans are in operation for executive directors an Annual Bonus which is payable in cash and awards under the LTIP which are Variable payable in shares.
More than 70% of total potential remuneration is  provides a useful reference point but not a target related.
range for salaries, incentives or other benefits.
LTIP potential to earn significant remuneration when Our shareholding requirements 200% of salary for executive performance is abovetarget but no shares vest if performance directors and Executive Committee members help to maintain is below threshold.
50% of vested shares are subject to commitment over the long term and ensure the interests of our further deferral.
senior management team are aligned with those of shareholders.
Bonus payments no payment is made if financial performance Details of directors holdings are set out on page 35. isbelow threshold.
26 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Directors Remuneration report continued Summary of single figure total pay for 2015 audited The Groups strategy, key performance indicators and progress towards achieving them are described in more detail in the Strategic Report on pages 26 to 34.
The adoption of revenue and normalised operating Money and other assets profit as performance measures for the bonus targets demonstrates alignment of executive reward with our receivable for strategic goals.
periods of more All Total amount All taxable Bonus than one pensions-related of salary benefits payments financial year benefits Other Total Contents of the Remuneration Report Executive director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Annual Report on Remuneration 28 Simon Segars 575 82 378 360 68 1,463 Single figure remuneration table 28 Chris Kennedy 158 955 104 13 950 2,180 Remuneration details 29 Mike Muller 302 15 181 340 34 872 Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration 34 Tim Score retired 30 June 2015 214 9 1,027 23 1,273 Remuneration Committee composition and activities in 2015 36 Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM 39 The full single figure table of remuneration with explanatory notes is on page 28 Group performance in 2015 Key performance indicators and linkage to bonus targets ARM performed strongly in 2015.
Group dollar revenues increased 15% and normalised diluted earnings per Key share by 25% IFRS: 33%.
However, across the three-year cycle on which LTIP vesting is calculated ARMs share price was not in the top half of its comparator group and therefore did not achieve the relative Total Gain or maintain market share Shareholder Return TSR target.
Bonuses earned byexecutive directors in respect of performance in 2015 Increase value per smart device were in the range of 59.81% to 65.79% of salary.
The Former Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB vested in Revenue full, with the maximum 2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned.
This was achieved because the normalised Generate new revenue streams Grow ARMs business by winning market EPS growth upper target was reached for the three years making up the performance period.
share, attracting new customers and entering Invest for the long term new markets Key activities of the committee in 2015 and 2016 Salary increases In line with good practice for internal promotions, Simon Segars was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in July 2013 initially on a below-market salary, which was increased by 3% in 2014 and by 11.65% in January 2015.
For 2016, the committee reviewed his salary and overall package against best practice in UK companies Normalised Operating Profit of similar size and complexity with reference to revenue and market capitalisation.
Taking this and Simons Generate increased returns for shareholders individual performance over the previous year into account.
we concluded that an increase of 6.09% from 575,000 to 610,000 for 2016 was appropriate, given his continued capability and performance and the increasing scale, profitability and complexity of the Group.
This 6.09% increase compares with an average of6.24% increase across the employee population as a whole.
The committee also reviewed salaries for Chris Kennedy and Mike Muller, and determined that an increase of 5% was appropriate.
A review of Chris Kennedys salary was considered appropriate in light of the fact that his contract was agreed in January 2015, notwithstanding the fact that he did not commence employment until 1 September 2015.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 27 It is anticipated that any future increases for all executive directors will continue to be aligned with those The rest of this report comprises two sections: applicable to employees generally and will, as usual, be subject to continued high performance from both the individual and the Group.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which details remuneration arrangements for the directors as they operated in 2015, and explains the linkage between Group strategy, performance and remuneration.
Changes to LTIP leaver provisions This report, including the Chairmans introduction, will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
The committee reviewed the Companys LTIP leaver provisions during the year, and minor revisions were made to further align with market practice and best practice.
In particular, in respect of awards made in 2015 Our Remuneration Policy for information only, approved at the 2014 AGM, to which no changes are and future years, good leavers awards will typically vest on the normal vesting date rather than immediately proposed for 2016. on termination, and any holding period will also apply.
We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM on28April 2016.
Other activities included: review of Group and individual executive directors performance against bonus targets for 2015: Larry Hirst Chairman of the Remuneration Committee setting of performance targets for the bonus plan for 2016: 17 February 2016 review of performance targets for the LTIP awards in 2016: review of a new all-employee share matching scheme, to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2016 AGM for implementation in 2017.
Executive directors will not participate in this plan unless or untilpermitted to do so by the Remuneration Policy: review of updated plan rules for the 2006 Employee Equity Plan and the 2006 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which expire in 2016: and approval of treatment of exceptional items in respect of calculating annual bonus payments, resulting in actual revenue and normalised operating profit NOP being adjusted to remove the impact of the acquisitions made in 2015 and certain long-term strategic investments for the purposes of measuring annual bonus.
The committee considers this to be reasonable since these represent activities that were outside of the original budget and target levels set.
The impact was to reduce revenue achieved by $9.1m and to increase NOP by 4.2m.
Other than in relation to the treatment of exceptional items in respect of the annual bonus, there were no other areas where the committee exercised discretion in 2015 or to date in 2016.
ARM is a high technology business that relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain top quality talent in all areas and particularly in engineering and computer science.
The Remuneration Committee takes an active interest in the level and structure of pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, including how they compare to those of the executive directors.
It has always been part of ARMs ethos and is essential to our culture of collaboration and innovation to include all ofouremployees in our equity plans.
28 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Annual Report on remuneration We set out below how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during 2015 and how we plan to The money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one financial year are the amounts received implement it in 2016. by directors on the vesting of shares in February 2016.
These shares were awarded in February 2013 under two schemes: the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the matching element of the former DAB Plan.
Single figure remuneration audited The amounts received are included in the single figure of remuneration for 2015 since the performance period for both these schemes concluded in 2015.
Money and other assets receivable for All the executive directors receive family healthcare and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits periods of more All Total amount All taxable Bonus than one pensions-related in kind.
In addition, Mike Muller and Chris Kennedy receive car and fuel allowance.
Simon Segars received of salary benefits payments financial year benefits Other Total 68,000 2014: 143,000 for living, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the Executive director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 US.
Chris Kennedy received a one-off cash award of 950,000 in January 2016 which is included in taxable Simon Segars 2015 575 82 378 360 68 1,463 benefits and a one-off award of RSUs of 950,000 in November 2015 which is included in other as part Simon Segars 2014 515 155 281 1,277 56 2,284 ofhisnew Chief Financial Officer package.
Chris Kennedy 2015 appointed Share prices applicable to grant and vesting of share awards: 1September 2015 158 955 104 13 950 2,180 Chris Kennedy 2014 8 February 2013 924.5 pence Mike Muller 2015 302 15 181 340 34 872 8 February 2014 896.0 pence Mike Muller 2014 294 15 146 1,260 33 1,748 12 February 2015 1,087.0 pence Tim Score 2015 11 February 2016 899.0 pence retired 30 June 2015 214 9 1,027 23 1,273 Tim Score 2014 427 27 212 1,825 46 2,537 Remuneration summary: Total 2015 1,249 1,061 663 1,727 138 950 5,788 From 2014 onwards remuneration for executive directors has comprised three principal elements: Total 2014 1,236 197 639 4,362 135 6,569 Structure of executive directors remuneration % of salary This table, as well as the explanation below, has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required by the Companies Act 2006.
600 11 500 Explanation of single figure remuneration audited : 400 300 The single figure of remuneration table provides details of pay and benefits earned by a director in respect 200 ofthe particular calendar year.
Not all of the remuneration is paid in that year.
100 The bonuses earned during 2015 will be paid in cash in February 2016.
New Base salary Cash bonus LTIP ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 29 Base salary: to provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary in order to enable the Group For 2015, the average increase in base salaries for the executive directors was 5.57% for the three individuals to recruit, retain and reward executive directors of the calibre required to achieve the Groups business who served in both 2014 and 2015, compared with the average increase for the workforce as a whole of strategy and goal of sustained growth in corporate performance.
For 2016, the average increase is 5.46% for the executive directors and 6.24% for the workforce as performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues when setting the remuneration a whole.
In line with good practice for internal promotions, Simon Segars was appointed as Chief Executive ofexecutive directors.
Officer in July 2013 initially on a below-market salary, which was increased by 3% in 2014 and a further 11.65% in January 2015.
For 2016, the committee reviewed his salary and overall package against best practice in UK Annual bonus: maximum of 125% of base salary, paid in cash with the goal of incentivising executive directors companies of similar size and complexity with reference to revenue and market capitalisation, taking into to achieve profit and revenue targets that each account for 50% of target bonus.
These targets are directly account Simons individual performance over the previous year.
This review concluded that an increase of linked to the Groups short-term financial and strategic goals and are regarded as the best drivers to increase 6.09% from 575,000 to 610,000 for 2016 was appropriate given his continued capability and performance market share and continue the Groups outperformance of semiconductor market growth.
85% of base and the increasing scale and complexity of the Group.
The new salary is within our Remuneration Policy and salary is payable at target.
Bonus is subject to an individual performance multiplier, which flexes the payment is consistent with ARMs philosophy of setting salaries, bonuses and benefits at appropriately competitive by 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary.
levels, with the main emphasis on long-term, performance-driven share-based rewards.
LTIP: annual conditional share awards are made at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for vesting of Across the Group, the increase for 2016 is in a range of 4.2% for the US rising to 9.2% in Asia, reflecting local between 0% and 200% of that amount after three years dependent on achievement of performance market conditions and salary inflation.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
The performance measures and rationale for choosing themare described in more detail on page31.
Annual Bonus Plan in respect of 2015 financialyear Since 2014, bonuses have been paid wholly in cash.
Target bonus is 85% and maximum bonus is 125% There are further holding periods of one year for 25% of the vested shares and two years for a further ofbase salary.
Individual performance conditions linked to business strategy are specific to each executive director and Full details of our Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM is set out on pages 39 are set annually.
These flex the amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25, subject to the overall maximum to 43. of 125% of salary.
The committee reviews the extent of achievement of specific individual performance conditions in arriving at the individual performance multiplier.
Base salary increases for 2015 and 2016 Executive directors annual base salaries have been increased as follows: The committee retains discretion to adjust bonus targets for any financial year to reflect exceptional events including acquisitions or disposals.
This discretion was exercised in 2015 and actual revenue and normalised From 1 January % increase From 1 January % increase operating profit NOP were adjusted to remove the impact of the acquisitions made in 2015 and certain 2015 2014-2015 2016 2015-2016 long-term strategic investments for the purposes of measuring annual bonus.
The committee considers this Simon Segars 575,000 11.65% 610,000 6.09% to be reasonable since these represent activities that were outside of the original budget and target levels set.
Tim Score 427,450 0.00% n a n a The impact was to reduce revenue achieved by $9.1m and to increase NOP by 4.2m.
30 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Annual Report on remuneration continued 2015 Bonus targets and achievement audited : The individual multipliers approved by the committee for 2015 are shown in the table below.
Financial element outcomes: Overall bonus outcomes audited The financial targets that applied to the 2015 bonus and the achievement against those targets were: The executive directors received the following bonus payments in respect of performance in 2015.
Bonus Weighting Threshold Budget Target Achievement achievement Total bonus Bonus Salary Bonus outcome Individual outcome paid Normalised Operating Profit 50% of max 406.4m 454.0m 471.0m 462.3m 37.22% Executive director 000 % of salary multiplier % of salary 000 Group Revenue 50% of max US$1,292.6m US$1,450.3m US$1,540.0m US$1,479.5m 33.14% Simon Segars 575 59.81% 1.1 65.79% 378 Bonus outcome % of Target 0% 50% 100% 70.36% Chris Kennedy 158 59.81% 1.1 65.79% 104 Bonus achievement % of salary 0% 42.5% 85% 59.81% Mike Muller 302 59.81% 1.0 59.81% 181 NOP for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60 for 2015.
Tim Score Chris Kennedys bonus was pro-rated from his start date of 1 September 2015.
For each element, bonus pays out linearly between the threshold and the budget and between the budget and target.
Annual bonus for 2016 Above target, bonus continues to pay out linearly.
Over-achievement of either the profit or revenue The bonus opportunity in 2016 will remain 85% of salary for target performance, subject to an individual targets can compensate for a shortfall in the other subject to the overall maximum of 125% of salary.
multiplier and an overall maximum of 125% of salary.
The committee continues to consider growth in revenue and profit as the most appropriate drivers to increase market share and continue the Groups Individual performance outcomes audited : outperformance of semiconductor market growth.
The bonus structure for 2016 will be in line with that The individual performance multiplier is linked to targets and objectives that are specific to each executive described above for 2015.
The specific financial targets and individual performance conditions will be director and set annually.
It should be noted that, when applied to the executive directors, the individual disclosed retrospectively in the 2016 Annual Report.
The committee has recommended, and the Board is performance multiplier normally falls within a relatively narrow range at the upper end.
This results of the opinion, that the targets for the Annual Bonus Plan are commercially sensitive because they include from the fact that maintaining a very high level of performance is a pre-requisite to continuation in the budgeted numbers within the range of outcomes and it would be detrimental to the Group to disclose them role of executive director.
Performance is reviewed in-depth on at least an annual basis by the Chief in advance of, or during the relevant performance period.
Executive Officer for the other executive directors and by the Chairman for the Chief Executive Officer.
These assessments are then reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
For performance in 2015, the Former Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DAB Plan individual performance conditions included objectives related to the following areas: Under the former DAB Plan, which operated for the last time in relation to 2013, 50% of bonus was compulsorily deferred into shares, which do not vest for three years.
For the remaining awards, the last of Simon Segars Achieving 2015 business performance targets which will vest in February 2017, at normalised EPS growth equal to the increase in the Consumer Prices Succession planning, key appointments and organisational effectiveness Index CPI plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when Strategy development normalised EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum.
The deferred shares can be forfeited Chris Kennedy Organisational review, capital return strategy, effectiveness of CFO function intheevent of gross misconduct and the matching shares are subject to forfeiture for bad leavers.
Mike Muller IoT strategy and organisation, R&D oversight to ensure long-term technology pipeline, university relationships Tim Score Transitioning CFO role and responsibilities ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 31 Former DAB Plan vesting in 2016 LTIP vesting in 2016 audited Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 2012 and awarded in 2013 vested on On 8 February 2013, the executive directors were granted awards under the LTIP with a face value of 100% 11 February 2016 with the maximum 2:1 ratio of matching shares being earned.
This ratio was achieved of salary.
The performance conditions were: because the Groups performance equated to CPI plus 26.2% per annum compared to the upper limit ofCPIplus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period, The amounts TSR vs. FTSE 350 Index 50% of the awards threshold vesting for median TSR, increasing on a straightare shown below: line basis to full vesting for upper decile TSR.
TSR vs. FTSE All World Technology Index 50% of the award threshold vesting for median TSR, Shares deferred increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper decile TSR.
as part of Matching 2012 bonus shares Matching Dividend shares awarded in 2013 granted shares value vesting Total award Actual Company TSR over the period was 17.9% and below the median TSR for both comparator groups.
Executive director Number Number 000 Number Number Therefore, the performance conditions were not satisfied in respect of the performance period ended Simon Segars 20,045 40,090 360 379 60,514 31 December 2015 and therefore no shares vested.
Mike Muller 18,900 37,800 340 357 57,057 Total 38,945 77,890 700 736 117,571 LTIP awards for 2015 audited On 12 February 2015, Simon Segars and Mike Muller were granted awards under the LTIP: on 12 November The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 899 pence based on the closing market price 2015 Chris Kennedy was granted awards under the LTIP: details are provided in the table below.
The threeon the previous day.
year period over which performance will be measured will be by reference to results for the first quarter of 2015 against results for the fourth quarter of 2017 in respect of normalised EPS, and measured over In accordance with the rules of the DAB plan and the LTIP, on his retirement on 30 June 2015, Tim 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 in respect of TSR.
Score received the following shares calculated on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which theperformance conditions were satisfied at that date: Face value on Maximum Awards made Market price on date of grant Basis of grant award % of Executive director Date of grant during the year date of grant 000 % of salary salary Shares deferred Matching as part of shares Matching Simon Segars 12 February 2015 99,183 1,087p 2,156 187.5% 375% the bonus granted shares value Total award Chris Kennedy 12 November 2015 27,911 1,053p 588 187.5% 375% DAB Number Number 000 Number Mike Muller 12 February 2015 52,155 1,087p 1,134 187.5% 375% 2013 28,637 48,523 456 77,160 Award for Chris Kennedy pro-rated from his start date.
2014 33,447 33,750 318 67,197 Share price on award date is based on the closing market price on the previous day.
Total 62,084 82,273 774 144,357 The award is eligible to vest in its entirety on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to meeting Conditional Market value at award Vested award Total award vesting performance conditions.
Executive directors will additionally be required to hold 50% of any vested awards, LTIP Number Number Number 000 with 25% released after four years and another 25% released after five years.
2014 TSR 44,724 6,102 6,102 57 2014 EPS 44,725 20,793 20,793 196 Performance measures for the LTIP were selected after careful consideration by the committee, and Total 89,449 26,895 26,895 253 following consultation with larger shareholders.
The committee believes that the use of both TSR and normalised EPS performance measures provides the best alignment to the Groups long-term financial andstrategic goals and encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder value.
The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 941 pence based on the closing market price on the previous day.
32 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Annual Report on remuneration continued The EPS range was set for awards made in 2014 following consultation with shareholders and remained Pensions audited unchanged for 2015.
The committee will review applicability of performance conditions on an annual basis, The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a group personal pension so that in the event that exceptional circumstances arise, such as material corporate activity or substantial plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
For executive directors, the normal rate of Group contribution is changes in market conditions, their impact can be considered against subsequent annual awards.
If changes 10% of base salary, or 11% in the case of the Chief Executive Officer plus, if applicable, additional amounts are to be proposed for any prospective LTIP award, it would be the committees intention to confirm any in accordance with the Groups salary sacrifice scheme.
Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash such change to shareholders in advance.
allowance were fully paid with respect to the year.
None of the executive directors has any entitlement to participate in a defined benefit pension scheme.
Analysts targets are acknowledged as important reference points for the markets, but there are a number of factors beyond the control of the Group and the executive directors that may impact mediumto long-term New Chief Financial Officer package EPS performance such as macro or semiconductor industry cycles and currency fluctuations.
These may The appointment of Chris Kennedy as Chief Financial Officer designate was announced on 8 January 2015 have impacts that would not necessarily be seen as underperformance by the Group.
The committee is also and he joined the Board as an executive director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 September 2015.
The key keen not to encourage short-term views or behaviour where, in theory, investment in the long-term future elements of his agreed package for 2015, which areinline with our approved Remuneration Policy, are set either organically or by acquisition may be discouraged if the EPS range is set at too high a level.
The below package was detailed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Please note the comments in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter regarding shareholder feedback received, The performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP awards were as follows: andthe Groups response.
EPS 50% of award : 25% of the maximum award vests at threshold and 100% at the upper performance Salary 475,000, determined in January 2015. target straight-line in between.
Threshold is three years EPS growth of 15% per annum including CPI andthe upper performance target is threeyears EPS growth of 22% p. a. including CPI.
Bonus maximum 125% of salary, pro-rated for actual service in 2015 four months, subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors and an individual performance multiplier.
TSR vs. FTSE 350 Index 25% of award : 25% of the maximum award vests at median and 100% vests atupper quintile straight-line in between.
One-off cash award a payment of 950,000 less payroll taxes was made in January 2016 to compensate for part of the equity benefits foregone in his previous role.
The award will be subject to clawback in the TSR vs. FTSE All World Technology Index 25% of award : 25% of the maximum award vests at median event of resignation or termination for cause in the following 12 months.
and100% vests at upper quintile straight-line in between.
RSU award a grant of restricted stock units to compensate for the remainder of equity benefits foregone LTIP awards for 2016 in his previous role with a value of up to 950,000 the number of restricted stock units to be based on The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the LTIP on 11 February 2016: the share price at the date of grant.
The units will vest in equal tranches over four years and be subject to forfeiture over the period.
Awards made Face value on date Executive director Date of grant during the year of grant % of salary In determining the buy-out awards i. e. the one-off cash award and the RSU award, the committee Simon Segars 11 February 2016 127,224 375% considered a number of factors including the performance conditions attached to awards foregone, the Chris Kennedy 11 February 2016 104,021 375% likelihood of those conditions being met and the remaining vesting period of these awards.
The total fair value Mike Muller 11 February 2016 66,219 375% of the awards is less than those foregone at easyJet plc, and the quantum reflects the strong likelihood of Chris Kennedys easyJet awards vesting in full.
In terms of structure, cash and RSUs were chosen for simplicity and value for money for ARM shareholders, respectively.
The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 10 February 2016, being the business day prior to the date of these conditional awards, was 899 pence.
LTIP award an award in line with the approved Remuneration Policy, pro-rated for actual service in 2015 four months, subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other executive directors.
Following review in December 2015, the committee has decided that the performance conditions should continue unchanged for 2016.
Pension an employers contribution of 10% of salary.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 33 Performance graphs Comparison of CEO and employee pay and benefits unaudited A performance graph showing the Companys TSR together with the TSRs for the FTSE All-World The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration from the prior Technology Index and the FTSE 350 from 31 December 2008 is shown below.
year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees.
To provide a meaningful comparison, the analysis includes only salaried employees and is based on a consistent set of The committee considers the FTSE All World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2015 and 2014 populations.
contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and therefore reflects the global environment in which the Director CEO Employees Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as Increase, from 2014 to 2015, in: well as companies that use ARM technology in their end products.
Base salary 11.65% 4.78% The TSR for the Companys shares was 1,175% over this period compared with 210% for the FTSE All World Benefits -29.14% 7.78% Technology Index for the same period.
Bonus 34.70% 22.64% ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2015 The following information is unaudited: 3500 3000 Relative importance of spend on pay m and percentage change 2500 2000 400 17.1% 1500 11 350 8.2% 370.6 1000 24.0% 300 316.4 10.5% 500 292.5 250 278.0 200 224.2 202.9 24.5% Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 150 23.6% 22.9% 5.7% 123.3 100 99.0 80.1 75.1 ARM FTSE All-World Technology Index FTSE 350 57.8 61.1 50 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Sta pay Dividends to shareholders Research and development costs Tax CEOs pay for the last seven financial years Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 This graph shows the amount spent over the past three years on the remuneration of all employees Warren East including the executive directors compared with the amounts spent on other significant outgoings retired 30 June 2013 2,011 7,571 7,745 6,710 3,416 i. e. distributions to shareholders, investment in research and development and tax.
These were the three Simon Segars appointed CEO most significant outgoings for the Group in the last financial year.
Staff pay includes salary, bonus, social 1 July 2013 2,065 2,284 1,463 security costs, pension and healthcare costs and share-based payment charges.
His leaving arrangements are in line with those set out in DAB matching % of maximum vesting % 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% his contract, i. e. a 12 month notice period providing salary and contractual benefits until the termination date.
Warren East retired on 30 June 2013 and was succeeded by Simon Segars.
The CEOs total single figure for 2013 represents the pay, He did not receive an annual bonus or LTIP award in respect of 2015.
His outstanding LTIP and DAB awards benefits and pension received by Warren East for the first half of the year as well as the market value at vesting of the shares received wereadjusted in line with the Remuneration Policy for a good leaver at the time the awards were made, by him on his retirement under the rules of the LTIP and DAB Plan.
The figure also includes the pay, benefits, bonus and pension received i. e. pro-rated to his termination date and vesting immediately, subject to performance.
by Simon Segars for the second half of the year as well as the market value of the shares received by him under the LTIP and DAB Plan in respect of the financial year to 31 December 2013.
The percentage of maximum awards and vesting achieved in 2013 are those received by Simon Segars.
34 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The committee notes that the Groups LTIP leaver provisions were reviewed during the year, and minor Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration revisions were made to further align with market practice and best practice.
In particular, in respect of In line with fee arrangements in place in other companies of similar size and complexity, the Company awards made in 2015 and future years, good leavers awards will vest on the normal vesting date rather than implemented the following fee arrangements from 1 January 2016: immediately on termination, and any holding period will apply.
Chairman fee of 400,000 per annum.
Payments to past directors audited A standard NED fee of 65,000 per annum.
This was increased from 60,000 in 2015, and was adjusted No payments were made to past directors during 2015. after careful review, to reflect ARMs position in the FTSE-100 and the increasing scale and complexity of the business.
The potential awards held by the executive directors under the LTIP and DAB Plan as at Additional fees for Committee Chairmen of 20,000 per annum and for the Senior Independent Director 31 December 2015 are as follows audited : of16,000 per annum last increased in 2015 to more fairly reflect the workload undertaken by them.
Potential Maximum number potential Maximum Fees paid to the Chairman will remain at the same level in 2016 as for 2015, as will the additional fee paid of shares number Market value potential value toCommittee Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who are based outside the UK and travel to the UK for Board meetings as follows: Janice Roberts $2,500 per meeting, John Liu 2,000 per meeting, Lawton Fitt 2,000 per meeting.
This is to reflect their additional time commitment.
This figure is not reflected in the total proposed fee for 2016.
Taxable benefits consist of expenses paid to non-executive directors to travel to UK Board meetings.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 35 Non-executive directors shareholdings in the Company audited The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each areasfollows: Shareholding at 31 December Shares 2015 or date Owned Shareholding at of retirement outright and date of report if earlier vested at Unvested and Requirement Director Number Number 31December Vested but Unvested subject to Shareholding at met?
based on Owned outright 2015 or date of subject to and subject performance 31 December share price on Stuart Chambers 40,000 40,000 and vested at retirement if holding at 31 to deferral at 31 conditions at 31 2015 31 December Lawton Fitt appointed 1 September 2015 210 210 Director date of report earlier December 2015 December 2015 December 2015 % of salary fee 2015 of 1039p Andy Green 5,250 5,250 Simon Segars 668,432 630,660 602,108 1,140 Yes Larry Hirst Chris Kennedy 20,256 20,256 90,218 55,822 44 No John Liu Mike Muller 1,336,000 1,305,760 371,624 4,487 Yes Stephen Pusey appointed 1 September 2015 6,329 6,239 Tim Score retired 30June 2015 n a 799,454 n a n a n a n a n a Janice Roberts Kathleen ODonovan retired 31 December 2015 In addition to the interests disclosed above, the executive directors have interests in dividend shares that could be awarded under the former and current LTIPs and the former DAB Plan, the amount of which will Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are not eligible to participate in bonus or share depend on the extent to which the performance criteria are satisfied and on the dividends declared during incentive arrangements.
Theirservice does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits, and no the performance period.
The maximum potential shares under the LTIP and the matching shares under the element of their fees is performance-related.
DAB plan are subject to performance conditions.
Directors shareholdings in the Company audited No director has any outstanding interest in options at the date of this report.
Except as described above, There is a requirement for executive directors to hold shares to the value of 200% of their salary as set out there have been no changes in directors interests since the end of the 2015 financial year up to the date of in the Remuneration Policy on page 41.
All of the executive directors have holdings well in excess of this approval of the Remuneration Report.
requirement, with the exception of Chris Kennedy who is yet to build sufficient holding, having joined the Group on 1 September 2015.
Share dilution It is proposed that the Group will continue to manage dilution within the context of maintaining award levels within a 10% limit over five years, the limit that has applied since 2003.
We are aware that this is higher than the limit of 5% over ten years in respect of discretionary awards and 10% over ten years in respect of all schemes adopted by many UK companies and preferred by many institutional investors.
The reasons for this higher limit, which was approved by shareholders when the former LTIP was introduced, are as strong today.
These are: the broad-based nature of our equity plans, under which shares are provided to all employees and are akey part of the Groups employee reward package: and the need to be able to compete with US companies world wide for the high-calibre engineers and executives required to secure the Groups future success.
The committee is keenly aware of this issue, and expects to keep well below the 10% upper limit.
Dilution over the past five years has been 3.8%.
36 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Annual Report on remuneration continued External roles Operation of the committee It is the Companys policy to allow executive directors to hold a non-executive position at another company The Chief Executive Officer, the EVP People and the VP Reward are normally invited to attend for at least and to receive remuneration for their services.
The Board believes that experience of the operations of part of each meeting to ensure that the committee is able to obtain their input.
The Group Chairman also other companies and their boards and committees is valuable to the development of the executive directors.
normally attends meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary advises the committee on corporate governance matters and acts as Secretary to the committee.
None of these individuals are present when Details of executive directors roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows: their own remuneration is discussed.
External advisers also attend meetings by invitation.
Their advice and recommendations are used as a guide but do not in any way replace the committees own deliberations Simon Segars became a non-executive director of Dolby Laboratories, Inc. on 3 February 2015.
an award of 7,759 RSUs with a market value of $38.66 per share on that date and the award vested in full on 1 February 2016 with a market value of $35.78 per share.
On 2 February 2016, he was granted a further The committees terms of reference are published on the corporate website at http: tinyurl.
award of 7,575 RSUs with a market value of $35.73 per share, which will vest in full on 1 February 2017.
In addition, Simon Segars received fees totalling $40,673 up to 31 December 2015 2014: n a. Mike Muller is The principal items of business dealt with by the committee during 2015 and early 2016 are described in the a non-executive director of Intelligent Energy plc and he received fees totalling 53,000 up to 31 December Committee Chairmans initial letter on page 25.
Chris Kennedy will take up a position as a non-executive director at Whitbread plc on 1 March 2016 and his remuneration will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
Remuneration Committee In this section we describe the composition and activities of the committee during 2015.
Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2015: Meetings attended Name of director Position eligible meetings Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director 5 5 Andy Green Independent non-executive director 5 5 Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 5 5 Stephen Pusey joined the committee on 1 January 2016.
Given their diverse business experience, the independent non-executive directors who made up the committee in 2015 offer a balanced view and international expertise in relation to remuneration matters forthe Group.
Their biographies appear on pages 6 to 7.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 37 External advisers 2014 AGM vote on Remuneration Policy The committee has access to independent professional advice on remuneration matters.
Following a At the 2014 AGM voting on the Remuneration Policy was as follows: competitive tender process, Mercer Limited Mercer was appointed by the committee in April 2014 and also provides advice to management on reward for the wider workforce.
Mercer is a member of the 97.58% vote in favour out of a total of 1,099,892,911 votes cast with 2.42% votes against and 14,047,874 Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct, which incorporates principles votes withheld.
of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality.
On the basis of Mercers confirmation of adherence to this Code and the detailed advice it has given since appointment, committee 2015 AGM Statement of voting members are satisfied that its advice is objective and independent and that its fees are in line with market At the 2015 AGM voting was as follows: practice.
Fees are charged at an hourly rate based on an agreed fee rate and fee quotations are provided in advance for any significant elements of work.
Annual Report on Remuneration 67.9% vote in favour out of a total of 1,089,913,024 votes cast with 32.1% votes against and 21,040,764 votes withheld.
Work undertaken by Mercer for the committee in 2015 included analysis and advice on the design of executive reward and the new share matching plan, review and making recommendations in relation to the Feedback from our shareholders ahead of the vote indicated concerns about the recruitment buy-out award Directors Remuneration Report for 2015, analysis of executive benchmarking data and preparation for for our new Chief Financial Officer, Chris Kennedy.
In particular there were concerns that part of the award and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings.
The committee also received advice from Kepler was in cash subject to clawback and that none of the award was subject to explicit performance conditions.
Associates Kepler subsequently acquired by Mercer in June 2015 who provided independent verification of Total Shareholder Return TSR calculations for the LTIP.
Kepler also provided a valuation model for the The Remuneration Committee has discussed the feedback received and understands the position of LTIP to the Group to assist with calculation of share compensation charges.
The committee will take the feedback provided into account in the event of future executive director recruitment and when a new Remuneration Policy is submitted at the 2017 AGM.
Fees paid to external advisers in the year were: Remuneration Policy Name of advisor Fee Work undertaken The Directors Remuneration Policy in the table on pages 39 to 43 was approved by shareholders at the Mercer 61,185 Analysis and advice on exceutive Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2014.
It applies to the executive directors at the date of this report and is director and broader executive intended to apply for three years from adoption in relation to any new executive director appointments.
packages, specific review of TSR comparator groups applicable to ARM, review and recommendation We believe that sustained growth can be successfully achieved only with a high level of employee engagement in relation to DRR for 2015, analysis and motivation.
We believe that it is in shareholders best interests that the Group is able to attract the of executive benchmarking data, best talent in the world within our specialised market.
All elements of pay and benefits set out in the policy preparation for and attendance at table are regarded as necessary to recruit, retain and motivate appropriately skilled executives and align Remuneration Committee meetings, advice to the People team on aspects their remuneration to the long-term success of the Group.
The structure of appropriately competitive base of reward and incentive.
salaries and higher potential incentives supports both shortand long-term strategy and has proved both Kepler 7,200 Independent verification of TSR, motivational and successful in achieving strong business performance over the past few years.
provision of a valuation model for the LTIP.
This Remuneration Policy section of the report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Largeand Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The committee has also taken into account the principles set out in Schedule A to the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration revised in November 2015.
38 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Annual Report on remuneration continued The committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and corporate governance issues The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
It also takes account of pay and conditions elsewhere the financial year are as follows: in the Group.
In particular, the committee is mindful of the fact that all employees receive share awards under Director Date the Groups equity plans.
Simon Segars 17 July 2014 Chris Kennedy joined 1 September 2015 17 January 2015 The committee does not specifically consult with employees when setting and reviewing remuneration Mike Muller 31 January 1996 policy for the executive directors: however, it does review the salary increases for all Executive Committee Tim Score retired 30 June 2015 1 March 2012 members against the general employee pay award each year to ensure that there is fairness.
Employees have an opportunity to raise any concerns over pay and benefits through the annual employee engagement survey Service contracts for the executive directors and appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive or direct with their line manager.
The EVP People and the VP Reward attend meetings by invitation and are directors are available to view in the Corporate Governance section of our website at http: tinyurl.
available to answer the committees questions on wider employee remuneration matters.
Shareholding requirements The term of appointment for non-executive directors is three years, which can be rolled forward for two further periods each of three years, which would be subject to annual review.
Appointments are subject to In order to align executives interests with those of shareholders over a longer time period, from 2014 termination on three months notice.
Fees paid to non-executive directors are reviewed annually with effect onwards all Executive Committee members have been required to build a shareholding of 200% of base from 1 January.
salary an increase from the previous level of 100% of base salary.
For other participants in the LTIP, the shareholding requirement has increased from 50% to 100% of base salary.
Unvested shares under the LTIP and former DAB Plan do not count towards the shareholding requirements.
Until these levels are achieved, no more than 50% of shares received through vesting under the DAB Plan and LTIP after the automatic sale of shares to satisfy tax liabilities can be disposed of by participants.
For 2014 a transitional arrangement applied for participants below Executive Committee level under which 20% of net shares vesting was retained.
This increased to 50% for 2015 onwards.
Service contracts In accordance with Code Provision D. 1.5, our policy is that notice periods for executive directors are of one years duration and each of the executive directors service contracts reflects this.
These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full time basis and contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to noncompetition, non-solicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers, and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service contract contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 39 Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy for executive directors Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion Base salaries are reviewed annually by the committee and are Base salaries are set at an appropriate level for each role, taking None, although the overall performance of each executive Base salary paid monthly in cash.
account of the factors described in this table.
director is considered by the committee when reviewing base To provide an appropriately competitive level of base salary salaries.
in order to enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate Increases generally apply from January in each year.
In its annual Generally, salaries are no higher than market median, although executive directors of the calibre required to achieve the review or on promotion, the committee considers the following: higher salaries may be paid, if necessary, to recruit externally or to Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay in lieu of notice Groups business strategy and goal of sustained growth in retain key executives.
may be made at the discretion of the Group.
This would include Pay levels at companies of similar size by reference to corporate performance.
base salary and contractual benefits pro-rated where applicable market capitalisation and revenue on a geographic and In normal circumstances base salary increases will be determined and any untaken holiday.
by reference to average increases for employees across the Group.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also be paid by External market conditions.
Greater increases may be approved if there is a substantial Pay and benefits elsewhere in the Group.
change in a directors role or responsibilities or if the salary is significantly below the current market rate.
In such circumstances, Individual performance, skills, experience and potential.
increases may be phased over a number of years and be Corporate performance on environmental, social and conditional on performance.
Clawback does not apply to base salary in accordance with contractual agreements.
Bonus, if earned, is paid wholly in cash for 2014 onwards.
Maximum bonus: 125% of base salary.
Amount is subject to achievement of two performance targets Performance-related bonus and then adjusted for individual performance: in respect of 2014 financial year onwards Paid annually after the Preliminary Announcement for the prior Bonus payable at target: 85% of base salary.
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance Target means the achievement of appropriate maximum targets objectives that are directly linked to the Groups short-term Bonus payments are not pensionable.
in respect of both Normalised Operating Profit NOP and total Total revenue 50% of target bonus.
revenue and prior to any personal performance adjustment.
Individual performance measures are focused on objectives that Individual performance measures specific to each executive are specific to each executive director.
Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of base salary director, which flex the amount of bonus by a factor of Clawback: provisions exist that require bonus to be forfeited Threshold means the minimum level of performance before 0.75 to 1.25. i. e. offset of bonus accruing in that year or an equivalent value bonus starts to accrue.
Revenue and profit growth are regarded as the most appropriate repaid in exceptional circumstances.
These include material short-term metrics for continuing the Groups performance.
misstatement of published results and misconduct causing a material loss and would apply for two years from the payment The committee retains discretion to adjust bonus targets for any of such bonus.
The proportion of the bonus that would be financial year to reflect intervening events including acquisitions repayable and could be 100% would depend on the extent to or disposals.
which the original bonus exceeds that which would have been The numerical values of targets for any particular financial paid if the results had been correctly stated, and also taking into year will not be disclosed in advance or during that year as account any negative impact of the re-statement.
the committee considers this information to be commercially sensitive.
The actual targets will be disclosed in the following financial year.
40 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Remuneration Policy continued Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion Bonus earned in respect of 2013 was subject to the provisions of Maximum and target bonus opportunity of 150% and 100% of The targets for the 2013 bonus were: Performance-related bonus the DAB Plan.
This was the final operation of the DAB Plan.
in respect of years up to and including 2013 50% of target bonus was dependent on achieving a NOP Bonus was split 50% cash and 50% deferred shares based on target of 313.5 million with 0% payout at 257.7 million To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance NOP, total revenue and individual performance.
rising in a linear way to 25% at 294.6 million.
objectives that are directly linked to the Groups short-term financial and strategic goals.
There is compulsory deferral into shares for three years.
The NOP portion of bonus can continue to accrue linearly Revenue and profit growth are regarded as the most appropriate Bonus matching applies to deferred shares in the range of 0.3 for above the target of 313.5 million on a straight-line basis, short-term metrics for continuing the Groups performance.
1 to 2 for 1 match subject to three-year EPS growth of CPI 4% subject to the overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
to CPI 12% per annum respectively.
50% of bonus was dependent on achieving a US$ Deferred and any matching shares in relation to 2013 revenue target of US$1,096 million with 0% payout at performance will be received in February 2017.
The revenue portion of bonus can continue to accrue Provisions exist that could result in immediate forfeiture of shares above the target of US$1,096 million so that for every in the event of dismissal for gross misconduct, as determined by 1% increase in revenue, bonus is increased by 2.5% of the committee and at its discretion.
the target, subject to the overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
Bonus amount is then subject to an individual performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25 again subject to the overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
Annual conditional share awards are made at 187.5% of base Maximum limit of 600% in exceptional circumstances as For the 2014 award vesting is based on: Long Term Incentive Plan 2013 salary with the ability for vesting of between 0% to 200% after determined by the committee.
first operation in 2014 Three-year Total Shareholder Return TSR growth three years dependent on achievement of the performance By way of example, exceptional circumstances could include To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance relative to the FTSE All-World Technology Index 25%.
conditions, with a maximum of 375% of base salary.
the hiring of an exceptional senior executive director in a highly objectives that are directly linked to the Groups long-term Three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE 350 25%.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to additional holding competitive market where we need to make an exceptional offer financial and strategic goals.
periods with 25% released after four years and the remaining in order to recruit.
Three-year normalised EPS growth 50% with threshold To align executive directors interests with those of the 25% released after five years.
During these new holding periods, at 15% annual growth including CPI and the upper shareholders through the performance conditions and share shares may not be sold even if the participant has left the Group.
performance target at 22% annual growth including CPI.
25% of the respective TSR elements vest for Malus: The committee has discretion to reduce a share award median performance with 100% vesting for upper including to nil prior to vesting where there are exceptional quintile performance.
circumstances, which include a material misstatement in the Similarly 25% of the normalised EPS element vests at threshold Groups published results, misconduct by the executive director performance with 100% vesting at the upper performance target that is deemed to have caused or contributed to a material loss with straight-line interpolation between these two points.
as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions, or inappropriate values or behaviour.
The committee will review the performance conditions for new awards annually.
Clawback: The committee has discretion to clawback shares and executive directors have an obligation under the Rules to The committee has discretion to waive or change a performance transfer shares or pay over the proceeds of sale in exceptional condition if anything happens that causes the committee circumstances as described above.
If sold at less than market reasonably to consider it appropriate, provided that any changed value, the obligation is to pay market value at the date of disposal.
performance condition will be no more difficult to satisfy than Clawback would be less any tax and social security paid or due the original condition was intended to be at the time the award to be paid.
The committee has discretion to set the length of was granted.
the clawback period, which would normally be two years from acquisition ofthe shares.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 41 Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion Until 200% of salary is achieved, no more than 50% of shares Shareholding requirement received through the DAB Plan and LTIP after the automatic sale To align executive directors interests with those of shareholders of shares to satisfy tax liabilities can be disposed of.
over a longer time period, they are required to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary.
Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count towards the shareholding requirements.
Annual conditional awards normally at 100% of salary with the Maximum award limit of 400% in exceptional circumstances was Vesting is based on: Long Term Incentive Plan potential for the award to vest at between 0% and 200% of never used.
in respect of years up to and including 2013 Three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE All World salary for upper decile performance at the end of the three-year Technology Index 50%.
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance performance period.
objectives that are directly linked to the Groups long-term Three-year TSR growth relative to the FTSE 350 50%.
Threshold vesting commencing at median ranking of TSR To align executive directors interests with those of the group 25% of respective TSR elements rising to 100% shareholders through the performance conditions and share vesting for an upper decile ranking on a straight-line basis.
The committee has discretion to waive or change a performance condition in the event of circumstances which cause the committee to reasonably consider that: a the amended Performance Condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no easier to satisfy: or b the Performance Condition should be waived.
10% of base salary for executive directors and 11% for the Chief 11% of base salary.
Pension Executive Officer is paid either into the Group Personal Pension To provide pension contributions in line with market practice, Plan or overseas equivalent, or as a cash allowance subject to which will enable directors to plan for retirement.
payroll deductions for those in excess of the lifetime allowance applicable in the UK.
Other benefits are provided appropriate to the location of the Reasonable market cost of providing benefits.
Other benefits executive director and include provision of a car or car and fuel To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice The committee reserves the discretion to provide such situationallowance, long-term sickness and disability insurance, death to enable the Group to recruit and retain high-calibre specific benefits as may be required in the interests of the in service benefit, and healthcare and travel insurance for the executive directors.
Groups business, such as relocation.
Full details of the exercise executive director and family.
of any such discretion would be provided to shareholders in the To reward innovation and invention.
Executive directors may also receive patent bonuses in line with next Remuneration report.
the scheme operated by the Group from time to time for patent applications and on grants of patents.
42 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Remuneration Policy continued Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion Executives based in countries outside their home country Reasonable market cost of providing benefits for the duration of Not applicable.
Overseas benefits Relocation allowances receive other benefits appropriate to the country in which they the term abroad.
To provide competitive benefits in line with market practice to are working.
enable the Group to recruit and retain high-calibre executive directors and move them to alternative locations when required In the event that an executive director agrees to move from by the needs of the business.
their home country temporarily, the relocation arrangements may include: Housing allowance or settlement of actual costs: Disturbance allowance to enable essential household purchases to be made: Cost of living and transportation allowance for the duration of the assignment: Flights home for executive and family: School fees for executive directors children: Cost of personal tax advice: Cost of visas for executive and family: Cost of transporting executive and familys personal effects: Legal and estate agents fees associated with properties in home and overseas locations.
An award of restricted stock units RSUs or a grant of options The maximum would be a sum equal to the value of equity The committee has discretion to determine appropriate One-off recruitment cash equity awards may be made under the Employee Equity Plan to a new recruit to foregone, taking account of performance conditions attached to performance conditions for any award of RSUs, any LTIP award, To provide an appropriately attractive package to persuade an compensate for equity awards foregone with previous employer the award, likelihood of vesting, and accelerated payment.
or any grant of options taking account of the circumstances of external hire to accept an offer of employment and or to buy out and or provide equity that vests in the three years prior to each individual case.
Performance conditions would normally equity that would be lost on leaving previous employment.
potential vesting of the first LTIP award.
be applied on an equivalent basis to those applicable to awards made to other executive directors in the same calendar year.
Alternatively, a cash payment or an additional LTIP award may be Performance conditions may, but would not necessarily, be made to compensate.
applied to any cash payment.
Payment may be on taking up appointment or to coincide with vesting dates under the previous employers plan.
Malus and clawback provisions would apply.
ARM currently operates a Save as You Earn Option Scheme The maximum participation limits will not exceed those set by the Not applicable.
Other Contributory Equity Plans in the UK and some other countries and an Employee relevant tax authorities from time to time.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the share plan Stock Purchase Plan in the US and some other countries, applicable to the country where they work.
which enables employees to buy shares at a discount of up to These plans provide an opportunity for executive directors to 20% of market value through regular monthly or fortnightly voluntarily invest in the Group.
Executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid and or The amounts received are disclosed annually.
Fees for non-executive roles held outside shares offered in connection with external non-executive roles Details are provided on page 36. the Group that they undertake.
To provide executive directors with opportunities to widen their knowledge and experience of the operation of other company boards and committees, they are permitted to hold nonexecutive positions at other companies.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 43 Component of remuneration package and how it supports business strategy Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, targets assessment and areas of discretion NED fees are proposed by the executive directors and approved Fees are set at an appropriate level taking into account the factors Not applicable.
Non-executive directors NED and by the Board as a whole.
The Chairmans fee is proposed by outlined in this table.
Chairmans fees the committee and approved by the Board as a whole with the Additional fees are paid to the SID and Committee Chairmen.
To attract and retain an appropriately experienced Chairman Chairman taking no part in the decision.
An additional fee is paid to NEDs based outside the UK who and independent non-executive directors of suitable calibre to NED appointments are terminable on three months notice.
undertake long-haul travel to attend Board meetings in the UK, to fulfil a range of different roles including financial expert Audit reflect the additional time commitment.
Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and take account of fees Committee Chairmen.
paid for similar roles by peer companies.
To pay fees that reflect responsibilities and workload undertaken, The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive bonuses, and which are competitive with peer companies.
pension contributions and nor can they participate in the LTIP or other equity plans.
The overall fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in our Articles of Association, currently 1.0million, as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Legacy arrangements pre 27 June 2012 Dividend shares are additional shares added at vesting equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid during the deferral period for the DAB Plan and LTIP.
Calculated at the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60.
In the event of termination of an executive directors contract of employment, compensation would be based on salary and contractual benefits during the notice period and whether the departing director is deemed to be a good leaver under the rules of the Annual Bonus Plan, the 2013 LTIP, the former LTIP, and the former DAB Plan.
44 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Directors report Additional disclosures Going concern Dividends The Directors report comprises pages 44 to 49 More information about the business, its operations ofthis report, together with the sections of the and key performance indicators is set out in the After dividend payments of 107.8 million and The directors recommend payment of a final Annual Report incorporated by reference.
Strategic Report in the Overview on pages 4 to share buybacks of 92.2 million, the highly cash dividend in respect of the year to 31 December 2015 8, the Marketplace section on pages 9 to 15, the of 5.63 pence per share which, subject to approval generative nature of the business enabled the The directors present their report and the Financial Strategy section, on pages 52 to 54, the at the AGM on 28 April 2016, will be paid on 13 May Group to increase its cash, cash equivalents and audited financial statements of the Group for the Risk Management section on pages 35 to 39, and the 2016 to shareholders on the register on 22 April deposits to 950.9 million net of accrued interest of year ended 31 December 2015.
The following Corporate Responsibility summary on pages 44 to 2016.
This final dividend, combined with the interim 5.4 million at the end of 2015.
This was an increase additional disclosures are made in compliance 45.
The Groups statement on corporate governance dividend of 3.15 pence per share paid in October from 861.7 million net of accrued interest of with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure can be found in the Corporate Governance 2015, makes a total of 8.78 pence per share for 4.6 million at the start of the year.
After reviewing and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate report on pages 8 to 16 of this Governance and the year, an increase of 25% on the total dividend the 2016 budget and longer-term plans and Governance Code September 2014.
The Risk Management section of 7.02 pence per share for 2014.
The total cost of considering any reasonably likely scenarios that may and the Corporate Governance report form part dividends paid or to be paid in respect of the year occur, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of Description of operations, principal activities of this section and are incorporated into it by to31 December 2015 is approximately 123 million.
approving the financial statements, it is appropriate and review of business cross reference.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Share buyback programme The principal operations and activities of the Group financial statements of both the Group and the Business model and its subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, parent Company.
The Group bought back 9,000,000 shares with research and development of RISC-based A detailed description of ARMs business model is set a nominal value of 0.05 pence per share during Longer-term viability statement microprocessors, system IP, graphics processors, out on pages 24 to 25 of the Strategic Report.
2015 at an average cost of 1,024 pence per share.
physical IP and associated systems IP, software The directors have assessed the viability of the This represents 0.6% of the issued share capital of Future developments and tools.
The nature of the global semiconductor Group over a three-year period to December 2018, the Group.
These shares are held in treasury and industry is such that most of the Groups business The Groups stated objective is to establish a global taking account of the Groups current business will be used to satisfy equity awards to employees.
originates overseas and, to serve its customers The purpose of the share buyback programme is to standard for its RISC architecture, physical IP and and the potential impact of the principal risks and better, the Group has sales offices around the world.
offset dilution and maintain the issued share capital at other products in the embedded microprocessor uncertainties documented in pages 35 to 39 of the These include nine offices in the US, three in PR a broadly constant level.
750,000 shares have been and semiconductor markets.
The directors believe Strategic Report.
The longer-term viability statement China and six in the rest of Asia.
The Group has re-purchased to date in 2016.
The rolling authority that, in order to achieve this goal, it is important can be found on page 35 of the Strategic Report.
design offices worldwide with the larger engineering to buy back shares given by the shareholders at the to expand the number and range of potential operations based in Cambridge, UK, San Jose and Risk management and internal controls AGM in May 2015 remains in place and a resolution customers for its technology.
Austin, USA, and Bangalore, India.
A full list of the to authorise the directors to make purchases in A description of the main features of the Groups Groups offices is included on page104 to 105. appropriate circumstances will be proposed at the The Group intends to enter into licence agreements risk management framework and internal controls 2016 AGM.
with new customers and to increase the range of in relation to the preparation of the consolidated ARM has its primary listing on the London Stock new technology supplied to existing customers.
accounts can be found on pages 12 to 15 of the Exchange and is also listed on the NASDAQ Stock Relationships will continue to be established Governance & Financial Report.
with third-party tools and software vendors to ensure that their products will operate with the Groups products.
As a result of its position in the semiconductor industry, the Group is presented with many opportunities to acquire complementary technology or resources and it intends to continue to make appropriate investments and acquisitions from time to time.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 45 Research and development R&D Donations Global greenhouse gas emissions Further detail on our emissions and the Groups management of those emissions can be found in our Development of IP is at the heart of the Groups The directors decided that an increase in charitable Our report covers emissions within operations that Carbon Disclosure Project Submissions.
activities and 74% of the Groups workforce is giving was appropriate during 2015 and the Group fall under the Groups financial control.
As such, data employed in engineering activities.
Within this, made donations as follows: used represents our global operations with regional Reported Emissions 2015 2014 R&D is of major importance and, as part of its conversion factors applied as required.
2015 2014 Scope 1 and 2 Emissions research activities, the Group collaborates closely 000 000 with universities worldwide and plans to continue Our emission factors are from Defra DECC Combustion of Fuel, Operation Education 1,141 926 of Facilities, Electricity and Cooling its successful engagement with the University GHG Conversion Factors for Company reporting.
Purchased tonnes CO2e 14,978 13,741 Health 722 117 of Michigan.
Our environmental impact assessment of ARMs CO2e Intensity Tonnes CO2e Environment 103 101 operations includes energy use and air travel as our per Employee 3.57 3.82 Key areas of product development for 2016 include material CO e contributors.
We have excluded nonCommunities 101 117 2 Scope 3 Emissions the development of further energy-efficient, highmaterial emissions related to refrigerant losses in air Other 52 72 Business Travel Tonnes CO2e 11,514 11,642 performance processors, such as ARM cores based conditioning systems, motor cars and waste streams.
Total 2,119 1,333 on symmetric multicore and superscalar technology.
Recent acquisitions are also expected to have a 2015 saw an improvement in our carbon The Groups ongoing environmental impact analysis ARMs investment of 2.5 million in an interest-free positive impact on future innovation in R&D.
performance based on intensity per employee in informs management about key environmental charitable bond in Future Business, made in 2010, terms of our purchased electricity scope 1 and factors and how it can reduce the impacts associated remains in place.
Future Business is a CambridgeThe Group is investing in future physical IP 2.
This reduction is due to continued growth with them.
The Group continued to enhance its based social enterprise, which provides business development including low-power, low-leakage in our headcount during 2015 increasing at a environmental data collection and reporting ability advice, coaching and affordable workspace to technologies for a range of chip manufacturing more rapid rate than the growth in our overall during 2015 to support the work of our Energy Use entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, charities and processes, to ensure leadership in this market.
Our Scope 3 emissions, which mainly and Climate Change Committee EUCCC.
In addition, the Group will continue to develop and consist of air travel, remained stable during 2015. deliver tools, graphics processors and system IP to Based on headcount intensity we achieved an 11% This is an Executive-sponsored steering group that ARM employees are encouraged to offer their time enable its customers to design and program SoCs.
This was as a result directs activity relating to environmental stewardship and expertise to help charities and other groups of slightly fewer flight segments being flown coupled and the management of our environmental aspects.
The Group operates a Matching Gift The Group incurred R&D expenses of 278.0 million with an increase in headcount.
Donation programme for individual employees in 2015, representing 29% of revenues, compared In 2015, ARM continued to strive for environmental fundraising efforts.
The Group does not make any with 224.2 million in 2014, representing 28% of Methodology accreditation in its new build projects.
R&D expenses have been charged in full to The method we have used to calculate GHG design centre which completed in 2015, had the income statement.
emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate environmental performance incorporated into the More details of the Groups charitable work and Accounting and Reporting Standard revised design brief and is expected to achieve Leadership fundraising activities can be found in the Corporate edition, using the location-based scope 2 calculation in Energy and Environmental Design LEED Gold Responsibility Report available on the Groups method, together with the latest emission factors Accreditation.
These building standards ensure high website at http: tinyurl.
from recognised public sources including, but not environmental performance of the Groups built limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, environment throughout its entire lifecycle.
the US Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
46 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Directors report continued environmental matters, social and community The Group and our Partners are seeing an increased The Group has continued to partner with companies and countries around the world.
The Group is policies and their effectiveness is contained in the benefit from the ARM University Programmes working in the low-impact building technology field.
committed to promoting and ensuring equal Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic activities as it educates hundreds of thousands of We have installations in place with IntelliSense, treatment.
No worker potential or existing, client Report and in the full Corporate Responsibility students worldwide utilising ARM technologies, Enlight and Alert Me in our Cambridge offices, or customer will be discriminated against on grounds Report available on our website.
preparing them for the vast and varied employment improving our environmental performance using of their gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil opportunities available in the ARM ecosystem.
energy-efficient ARM technology and in our partner status, gender reassignment, race, colour, ARM University Programme new Bangalore office space we have fitted IoT nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, Directors in the year LED lighting.
Areas such as lighting control and disability or age.
A description of the Nomination The ARM University Programme aims to train the environmental monitoring of plant for improved Committees approach to diversity is on page 24 of next generation of engineers on ARM and PartnerThe following served as directors of the Company building efficiency are being developed with these the Nomination Committee report.
based technologies through the production and during the year ended 31 December 2015 and up to partners and will be extended to other key sites and dissemination of high-quality teaching materials and the date of signing: Disability is not seen to be an inhibitor new build projects.
education kits to universities worldwide.
By working to employment or career development.
closely with our ecosystem using various partnership Stuart Chambers Chairman Appropriate arrangements are made for the The Groups environmental policy is published models, the programme once again doubled its Simon Segars Chief Executive Officer continued employment and training, career on our website within the CR report.
In line adopted course and laboratory base worldwide in development and promotion of disabled persons Chris Kennedy Chief Financial Officer with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of 2015 following a similar expansion in each of 2013 employed by the Group.
In the event of any staff appointed 1 September 2015 association enable the Group to send information and 2014. becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs to shareholders electronically and make documents Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, available through the website rather than in hard 2015 also saw the development of new educational Lawton Fitt independent non-executive where possible, seek to offer alternative employment copy, which provides both environmental and cost and training materials, and e-courseware products, director appointed 1 September 2015 to them if they were no longer able to continue in benefits.
Shareholders can opt to continue receiving which have been successfully licensed to various their current role.
a printed copy of the Annual Report, subject partners worldwide.
The online deployment of our Andy Green Senior Independent non-executive to availability.
educational products in particular is scaling up the Director from 1 January 2016 Employee involvement programmes reach considerably.
In addition, we Larry Hirst CBE independent Health and safety To help reach the best decision, and one that have finalised the design of an infrastructure for an non-executive director all employees can support, it is important that e-textbook publishing activity which will go handThe Group operates in an industry and in we include the views of those outside of the in-hand with our e-courseware production activity.
John Liu independent non-executive director environments which are considered low risk from a management team in the decision-making To further extend the benefits of our approach, the health and safety perspective.
However, the safety Stephen Pusey independent non-executive process.
To this end, internal conferences and programme also developed a government relations and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors director appointed 1 September 2015 communications meetings involving employees strategy and plan in 2015, which is already bearing is a priority in all Group workplaces worldwide.
Janice Roberts independent from all parts of the Group in discussions on future fruit, especially in China.
Government relations The Group continues to improve its management non-executive director strategy and developments are held regularly.
are crucial to widening the adoption of standard systems in this area with an audit programme Furthermore, employee share ownership is educational formats and products, which the that includes external auditing of processes and Tim Score Chief Financial Officer encouraged and all employees are able to participate ARM University Programme is developing for offices.
More detail about the Groups approach retired30 June 2015 in one of the Groups share ownership schemes.
the benefit of the ARM ecosystem as well as the to environmental matters and health and safety is Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent The Group does not presently operate any collective wider education system.
Indeed, we believe that included in the CR report.
Director and financial expert agreements with any trade unions.
the future success of STEM education depends on retired31 December 2015 Diversity and equal opportunities a much closer partnership between government, Information about the Groups employees and industry and educational institutions including schools The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified policies are contained in the Our people section and universities.
It is proud of its diverse workforce which of the Strategic Report.
Information about is made up of people of all ages from cultures ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 47 Share capital Election and re-election of directors Conflicts At the 2015 AGM, the directors were given authority to buy back a maximum number of 141,146,510 Chris Kennedy joined the Board on 1 September The Board is fully aware of the other commitments At 31 December 2015, ARMs share capital ordinary shares at a minimum price of 0.05 pence 2015 as Chief Financial Officer and Lawton Fitt and of the Chairman and the executive and noncomprised a single class of ordinary shares of 0.05 each.
The maximum price was an amount equal Stephen Pusey joined the Board on 1 September executive directors.
All directors have completed pence each and there were 1,412,436,842 ordinary to 105% of the average of the closing mid-market 2015 as independent non-executive directors and conflicts of interest questionnaires and any planned shares in issue, of which 7,231,108 were held in prices of ARMs ordinary shares as derived from the will be standing for election at the 2015 AGM.
All of changes in their directorships outside the Group are treasury 2014: 7,852,543 shares held in treasury.
London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the the other directors will be standing for re-election subject to prior approval by the Board.
No conflicts The rights attached to treasury shares are restricted five business days immediately preceding the day at the 2015 AGM.
In line with the provisions of of interest arose in 2015 or to date in 2016, and no in accordance with the Companies Act.
The rights on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be the Code, all directors will present themselves other situations have been identified that might lead attached to ordinary shares are as follows: purchased.
This authority will expire at the earlier for re-election annually if eligible unless the to a conflict of interest.
In circumstances where a of the conclusion of the 2016 AGM or 30 June 2016.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, every directors have agreed otherwise.
See pages 6 to 7 potential conflict arises, the Board excluding the During 2015 a total of 9,000,000 shares were reshareholder present in person or, in the case of for the biographies of the directors at the date of director concerned would consider the situation purchased and are held in treasury.
Share buybacks a corporation, present at the meeting by way of a this report.
and either authorise the arrangement in accordance are expected to continue to be made at a level which representative and entitled to vote shall have one with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of will broadly offset dilution resulting from employee vote and every proxy present who has been duly The interests of the directors in the Companys Association or take other appropriate action.
appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote on the ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which were resolution shall have one vote.
beneficially held, are disclosed in the Directors Articles of association A resolution will be proposed as a special resolution Remuneration Report on page 35.
ARMs articles of association may be amended 2.
On a poll, every shareholder present in person at the 2016 AGM to give ARM authority to acquire only by a special resolution at a general meeting or in the case of a corporation, present at the up to 140,966,995 ordinary shares following expiry The directors have the benefit of directors and of shareholders.
meeting by way of a representative or by proxy of the current authority.
The directors will use this officers liability insurance.
and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every authority only after careful consideration, taking into Directors authority ordinary share held.
account market conditions prevailing at the time, Appointment of directors The directors are responsible for the management other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing 3.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend where ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution of the business of ARM and may exercise all levels and the overall position of ARM.
In particular, declared or paid out of profits available for appoint any person to be a director.
ARM must have powers of ARM subject to applicable legislation and this authority will be exercised only if the directors such purposes.
not less than two and no more than 16 directors regulation and the articles of association.
believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders holding office at all times.
Shareholders are entitled to participate in a return generally and will increase earnings per share.
resolution from time to time vary the minimum and of capital on a winding-up.
or maximum number of directors.
The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy The directors may appoint a director to fill a casual or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be vacancy or as an additional director to hold office passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted until the next AGM, who shall then be eligible and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation for election.
to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on ARMs website after the meeting.
48 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Directors report continued Company, and of the profit or loss of the Group for There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Qualifying indemnity provision Annual General Meeting AGM that period.
In preparing these financial statements, shares in ARM other than: Article 139 of the Companys articles of association The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, thedirectors are required to: provides for the indemnification of directors of the Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 28 April 2015 at restrictions that may from time to time be Company against liability incurred by them in certain 2.00pm.
A presentation will be made at this meeting select suitable accounting policies and then apply imposed by laws and regulations for example, situations, and is a qualifying indemnity provision outlining recent developments in the business.
them consistently: those relating tomarket abuse and insider dealing : withinthe meaning of section 236 of the Companies All voting at the meeting will be conducted on a poll Act 2006. where every shareholder present in person or by restrictions that may be imposed pursuant to the make judgements and accounting estimates that proxy will have one vote for each share of which Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority are reasonable and prudent: The qualifying indemnity was in force during the they are the owner.
The Group will convey the under which certain employees of ARM require state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European financial year and up to the date of signing the results of the poll on the website after the AGM.
the approval of the Company to deal in shares: Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards Annual Report.
Shareholders are invited to submit written questions restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be have been followed, subject to any material in advance of the meeting.
Questions should be imposed under article 61.2 of ARMs articles of departures disclosed and explained in the Group Change of control sent to The Company Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, association or under Part 22 of the Companies and parent Company financial statements 110Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB19NJ, UK.
All of ARMs equity-based plans contain provisions Act 2006, in either case following a failure to respectively: and relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards supply information required to be disclosed A resolution to reappoint  andoptions would normally vest and become prepare the financial statements on the going following service of a request under section 793 LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the exercisable on a change of control, subject to concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume of the Companies Act 2006: and AGM.
Details of other resolutions to be proposed the satisfaction ofany performance conditions at that the Company will continue in business.
at the meeting are set out in the Circular and Notice restrictions on transfer of shares held under that time.
of AGM 2016, which will be made available to all certain of the Companys employee share plans The directors are responsible for keeping adequate shareholders together with a proxy card.
while they remain subject to the plan.
There are no significant agreements to which ARM accounting records that are sufficient to show and is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a explain the Companys transactions and disclose Statement of directors responsibilities Substantial shareholdings change of control.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The directors are responsible for preparing the position of the Company and the Group and enable The directors are aware of the following substantial Financial instruments Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration them to ensure that the financial statements and the interests in the issued share capital of the Company Report, and the financial statements in accordance Directors Remuneration Report comply with the as at 15 February 2015: The Groups financial risk management and policies with applicable law and regulations.
Companies Act 2006 and, with regards to the Group and exposure to risks in relation to financial Percentage financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
instruments are detailed in note 1c.
of issued Company law requires the directors to prepare They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Baillie Gifford & Co 9.57 financial statements for each financial year.
of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Essential contracts BlackRock, Inc. 5.08 Under that law the directors have prepared the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of There are no parties with whom the Group has Group financial statements in accordance with fraud and other irregularities.
Thornburg Investment Management 5.01 contractual or other arrangements that are essential International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs to the business of the Group.
Fidelity Management and Research Corporation 4.92 as adopted by the European Union, and the parent The directors are responsible for the maintenance The Capital Group Companies, Inc 3.02 Company financial statements in accordance with and integrity of the Annual Report included No customer accounted for more than 10% of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting on the Groups website in accordance with the Group revenues in 2015 2014: none.
Save for the above, the Company has not been Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and UK legislation governing the preparation and notified, as at 15 February 2015, of any material applicable law.
Under company law the directors dissemination of financial statements.
Legislation in interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest must not approve the financial statements unless the UK governing the preparation and dissemination exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of they are satisfied that they give a true and fair of financial statements may differ from legislation in the Company.
view ofthe state of affairs of the Group and the other jurisdictions.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 49 Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the biographies on pages 6 to 7, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and this Directors report on pages 44 to 49 and, within the Strategic Report, the Financial strategy section on pages 52 to 54 and the Risk management sections on pages 35 to 39 comprise a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Disclosure of information to auditors In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors report is approved, that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors areunaware: and b the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Philip Davis Company Secretary ARM Holdings plc Company Number: 2548782 50 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc Our audit approach Report on the Group financial statements Overview Our opinion Overall Group materiality: 20.7 million which represents 5% of profit In our opinion, ARM Holdings plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : before taxation.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit We conducted full scope audit procedures over ARM Limited and andcash flows for the year then ended: ARM Inc. have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs We performed specific audit procedures over certain account balances asadopted by the European Union: and and transaction classes in other Group companies, focusing in particular Materiality on staff costs as total staff costs for the Group represent over 70% of the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the Groups operating expenses.
Taken together, the Group companies over which we performed our What we have audited Audit scope audit work accounted for over 99% of the Groups third-party revenues The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: and over80% of the Groups expenses, profit before tax andnet assets.
the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: Our audit focused on the following areas based on materiality and risk: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Areas of focus Revenue recognition: then ended: Valuation of intangible assets arising on the acquisition of Sansa Security the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: Sansa : the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity for the year then ended: and Litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual Property IP risk: the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other Taxation: and explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements ISAs UK& Ireland.
isapplicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented arisk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements asa whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 51 This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We obtained managements calculations of the degree of Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus completion of contracts at year-end.
We agreed a sample of Revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal source data used in managements calculations to supporting controls that the Group uses to ensure the completeness, evidence, and evaluated the judgements applied.
We also See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report accuracy and timing of revenue recognised, including controls considered the historical outturn of judgements made in prior on page 19 for the directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, over the degree of completion of revenue contracts at yearperiods.
We did not identify any material exceptions judgements and estimates.
We found the operation of these controls to be inour testing.
The timing of licence revenue recognition which makes effective, which provided us with audit evidence that We tested royalty revenues by agreeing a sample of amounts up 39% ofthe Groups gross revenue of 968.3 million is licence revenue had been recorded accurately and in recognised to customer notifications and cash receipts.
the correct period, in accordance with the Groups Nomaterial exceptions were noted from our testing.
We read a sample of licence contracts Recognition of licence revenue involves a number of significant selected on a high value basis and assessed whether the revenue In response to the presumed risk of fraud, where revenue was judgements by the directors, including: recognition methodology and the Groups accounting policy recorded through journal entries we tested a sample of journals to determining whether contracts contain deliverables which was consistent with accounting standards and had been applied establish whether there were any unusual items.
No such items should be separated for revenue recognition purposes and consistently.
Where a contract contained multiple elements, were identified from our testing.
the most appropriate revenue recognition methodology for we considered managements judgements as to whether there Valuation of intangible assets arising on the We evaluated the process used by the directors to identify each of those elements: were elements that should be accounted for separately, and, in acquisition of Sansa Security Sansa intangible assets acquired in the business combination, considering such cases, challenged the judgements made in the allocation determining the allocation of consideration on a fair value the rationale for the acquisition and the nature of the Sansa See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report of the consideration to each element by considering alternative basis between components of multi-element contracts business.
Wewere satisfied that there were no material on page 19 for the directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, judgements that could have been made.
as noted above where this can be supported based on identifiable intangible assets other than those judgements and estimates and note 19 for further information.
evidence of stand-alone selling prices : identified by management.
We evaluated and challenged the significant judgements including On 30 July 2015, the Group completed the acquisition of Sansa assumptions used and estimates made by management in determining the point at which the inflow of cash can be Using our valuation specialists, we evaluated the methodology for consideration of $71.3 million 46.0 million, as described in applying the Groups accounting policy to specific contracts deemed probable where a contract includes extended and assumptions used by the directors in valuing the identified note 19. and separable elements of contracts by considering alternative payment terms: and intangible assets.
We evaluated the forecasts used and key judgements or assumptions that could have been made, and we Accounting standards require that all assets and liabilities acquired assumptions made as follows: assessing the degree of completion of contracts which obtained evidence to support them, including details of contractual in the business combination are recorded at fair values on areaccounted for on a percentage of completion basis.
We challenged revenue and profit growth assumptions agreements, delivery records, time records sheets, cash receipts acquisition.
Judgement is required in identifying and valuing all inrelation to both the legacy businesses of Sansa and its and project plans.
We noted no instances of inappropriate the assets and liabilities acquired, in particular intangible assets.
As described in note 1b, royalty revenues earned on sales by future, in development revenue streams by considering the revenue recognition arising in our testing.
Intangible assets totalling $17.8 million 11.5 million were identified the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology top down method by which these forecasts were prepared relating to technology and in-process research and development.
For the contracts selected we inspected original signed contracts, are recognised when the Group receives notification from and comparing the forecasts to the historical performance The key judgements were in determining an appropriate re-performed managements calculations and agreed the revenue the customer of product sales, which is typically in the quarter and stability of the Sansa business: methodology to value these assets and appropriate assumptions, recognised to the underlying accounting records.
We did not following shipment.
including forecast revenue and profit, discount rate, useful We corroborated the discount rate used by recalculating identify any material exceptions in our testing.
In addition, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud economic lives and rates of obsolescence to determine thevalues.
Sansas weighted average cost of capital using industry We challenged judgements made by the directors in determining in revenue recognition for every audit conducted under these benchmarks and comparing this to the discount rate applied: As the valuation of the intangible assets identified was immaterial whether the inflow of cash on future billing milestones could auditing standards because of the pressure management may to the Group, we focused on the risk of potential bias towards We challenged the useful economic lives and technology be considered probable by assessing the terms of the related feelto achieve the planned results.
understatement of cash flows or overly conservative assumptions obsolescence rates by comparing these to other recent contracts, the payment history of customers to whom such billing in order to reduce the valuation of intangible assets subject to acquisitions and the expected period over which these terms have been extended, and any external factors that provided amortisation and therefore reduce the amortisation impact on technologies were expected to continue to generate future evidence of a customers ability and intent to pay such amounts.
theGroups income statement in future periods.
cash flows: and We did not identify any instances of inappropriate recognition of revenue under extended billing We sensitised the impact of a reasonable change in the milestones through our testing.
forecasts and assumptions used and considered whether these materially impacted on the valuation of acquired intangible assets.
52 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We were satisfied that, though alternative valuation Taxation Using tax specialists in relevant jurisdictions, we tested the Groups methods could have been applied to the valuation tax computations and assessed and challenged the judgements See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report of acquired technology, the methodology applied made considering their consistency with applicable legislation and on page 19 for the directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, did not have a material impact on the valuation practice, including evaluating managements assessment of the likely judgements and estimates and note 6 for specific taxation disclosures.
resolution of uncertain tax positions.
We found no material The calculation of the Groups total tax charge of 75.1 million exceptions in our testing.
We were satisfied that the fair value of acquired is subject to a number of complexities, in particular because the intangible assets was supportable, and that the We read the Groups correspondence with local tax authorities Group operates in several jurisdictions.
assumptions used in valuing the intangible assets in the UK and US during the year and assessed the implications were within an acceptable range.
We were satisfied Tax provisioning in relation to ongoing enquiries with local tax for tax provisioning.
The evidence that we obtained from that there was no evidence of bias in assumptions authorities is a specific area of judgement.
In addition, the estimated reading this correspondence supported the directors and forecasts used by the directors to reduce the impact on the Groups UK deferred tax balances of the UK patent decisions regarding the level of tax provisioning.
valuation of intangible assets subject to amortisation.
box regime and the level of provisioning in relation to identified tax We tested the calculation of the impact of the UK patent box We found that the valuation of acquired intangible risks is judgemental.
regime on the Groups effective current and deferred tax assets was not materially sensitive to a reasonable rates, evaluating the judgements made in determining the level change in the forecasts and assumptions used of current and future taxable profit within the scope of this by management.
regime, and checked the application of the methodology to Litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual We discussed litigation with the Groups in-house legal counsel and applicable legislation.
We found no material exceptions Property IP risk obtained direct confirmations from external legal advisers.
assessed the adequacy of provisions recognised and disclosures See note 1b to the financial statements and the Audit Committee report Share-based payment charges We tested the operating effectiveness of controls in place made in the Group financial statements.
We found that the on page 19 for the directors disclosures of the related accounting policies, over the calculation and recording of the share-based payment determination of whether provision was required and See note 1b to the financial statements for the directors disclosures judgements and estimates and note 23 for further information.
We found the operation of these controls to the amount of any such provision were consistent with ofthe related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and note 20 be effective, which provided us with audit evidence The Group has exposure to patent infringement disputes, the legal advice and managements assessment of for more information.
that share-based payment charges had been recorded sometimes directly, but in most cases through indemnity provisions potential settlement costs, based, where appropriate, The calculation of the Groups share-based payment expense of accurately and in the correct period, in accordance in its contracts with customers.
on latest information including the extent to which 70.5 million is subject to a number of management determined with the Groups accounting policies.
Judgements are made in determining the extent and amount of any assumptions in estimating the fair value of share awards granted We substantively tested the Groups share-based payment provisions required or disclosures made for contingent liabilities.
Where indemnification costs with a licensee and litigation in the year and the number of awards that are expected to vest.
calculations and the associated tax computations and challenged settlements through purchase of a licence were expensed during The Monte-Carlo option pricing model used to fair value the LTIP managements assumptions in estimating the fair value of awards the year, we vouched these to evidence of payment and examined awards granted in 2015 is complex and requires technical expertise granted during the year and the number of awards that are the associated settlement contracts.
We did not identify any in choosing appropriate assumptions such as volatility and the expected to vest by considering the outturn of historical estimates material exceptions.
calculation of the average correlation for the FTSE 350 and FTSE made by management and market data.
We traced inputs to All World Technology Index.
There is a risk that assumptions used the fair value calculation to underlying grant documents, option may be significantly under or over stated, which could materially scheme rules and comparable market data.
We did not identify impact the Groups share-based payment expense.
any material exceptions in our testing.
We focused on and challenged the assumptions used in the MonteCarlo option pricing model for the LTIP awards granted in 2015 by comparing them to external market data and other third-party evidence, and by considering the impact of reasonable alternative assumptions that could have been used.
We found that the assumptions used were comparable with market data and other third-party evidence, and assumptions fell within a reasonable range.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 53 How we tailored the audit scope Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the Overall Group materiality 20.7 million 2014: 15.7 million.
accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
How we determined it Consistent with last year, 5% of profit before taxation.
Rationale for benchmark applied This is, in our view, the most relevant measure of the performance of the Group, The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 38 companies, comprising the Groups operating andisagenerally accepted auditing benchmark.
businesses and head office entities.
Our Group audit focused on the two largest companies of the Group ARM Limited and ARM Inc. which We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our contribute over 99% of the Groups third-party revenues, and more than 80% of the Groups expenses, audit above 1.0 million 2014: 0.8 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, profit before tax and net assets.
We performed full scope audit procedures at ARM Limited and ARM Inc. warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We also performed specific audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes in other Going concern Group companies, focusing in particular onstaff costs in other Group companies.
We focused in particular Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 44, in relation on staff costs across the Group because total staff costs for the Group including significant components togoing concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
represented over 70% of the Groups operating expenses.
Transactions subject to specified procedures represented approximately 4% of the Groups expenses.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are also required to report to you if we have anything material to add ortodraw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate All audit work in respect of the financial statements, including that on the Group consolidation, disclosures in to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or the financial statements and all the areas of focus, was performed by the Group engagement team including todraw attention to.
visits to ARM Inc. s US-based operations with the exception of taxation, where assistance was received from other PwC network firms in respect of judgements made in respect of tax charges in overseas jurisdictions.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group Materiality has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee statements as a whole.
as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
54 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would Other required reporting threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Consistency of other information Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to Companies Act 2006 opinion add or to draw attention to in relation to: In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial the directors confirmation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of We have nothing material to add statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing ortodraw attention to.
the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, ISAs UK & Ireland reporting solvency or liquidity.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to add Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or the directors explanation in the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of We have nothing material to add apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period ortodraw attention to.
knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be otherwise misleading.
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of the statement given by the directors on page 20, in accordance with provision C. 1.1of We have no exceptions to report.
their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual qualifications or assumptions.
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group, set out on page 44.
Our review model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting acquired in the course of performing our audit.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the the section of the Annual Report on page 19, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the We have no exceptions to report.
statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address performed our review.
matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 55 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other matter Our responsibilities and those of the directors We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on pages 48 to 49, the directors been audited.
areresponsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true andfair view.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable for and on behalf of  LLP law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Standards for Auditors.
London This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in 17 February 2016 accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
56 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensiveincome 2015 2014 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December Note m m For the year ended 31 December Note m m Revenues 2 968.3 795.2 Profit for the year 339.7 255.4 Cost of revenues 39.3 37.8 Other comprehensive income: Gross profit 929.0 757.4 Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to income statement net of tax of 1.1 million 2014:nil 10 4.3 Operating expenses Unrealised holding gain on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of 4.4 million Research and development 278.0 224.2 2014:1.1 million 10 17.7 4.3 Sales and marketing 106.1 93.2 Currency translation adjustment 32.1 34.6 General and administrative 138.8 131.0 Other comprehensive income for the year 45.5 38.9 Total operating expenses 522.9 448.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 385.2 294.3 Profit from operations 406.1 309.0 These items may be reclassified to the income statement if certain conditions are met.
Investment income 12.1 11.3 Interest payable and similar charges 0.3 0.3 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Share of results in joint ventures 26 3.1 3.5 Profit before tax 5 414.8 316.5 Tax 6 75.1 61.1 Profit for the year 339.7 255.4 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings 339.7 255.4 Number of shares millions Basic weighted average number of shares 1,407.4 1,406.2 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 12.9 14.9 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,420.3 1,421.1 Basic EPS 24.1 18.2p Diluted EPS 23.9 18.0p All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuingoperations.
The Company has opted to present its own accounts under UK GAAP as shown onpages 94 to100.
Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 7 and 25 of the financial statements respectively.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 57 Consolidated balance sheet 2015 2014 2015 2014 At 31 December Note m m At 31 December Note m m Assets Liabilities Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents 16 40.5 54.1 Accounts payable 16 12.7 11.7 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 16 617.8 620.8 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 16 3.2 4.8 Embedded derivatives 16 6.9 2.6 Accrued and other liabilities 14 100.7 80.6 Accounts receivable 8 183.7 138.6 Finance lease liabilities 15 5.2 3.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 10, 16 23.1 Current tax liabilities 30.6 31.9 Prepaid expenses and other assets 9 51.6 43.2 Deferred revenue 110.1 127.4 Current tax assets 22.9 8.9 Total current liabilities 262.5 260.3 Inventories 1.8 2.7 Non-current liabilities: Total current assets 948.3 870.9 Accrued and other liabilities 14 6.3 Non-current assets: Finance lease liabilities 15 6.1 2.6 Long-term deposits and similar instruments 16 298.0 191.4 Deferred tax liabilities 6 3.2 0.4 Loans and receivables 16 6.0 3.0 Deferred revenue 44.5 45.6 Available-for-sale financial assets 10, 16 11.6 23.7 Total non-current liabilities 60.1 48.6 Investment in joint ventures 26 2.6 3.0 Total liabilities 322.6 308.9 Prepaid expenses and other assets 9 1.4 1.7 Net assets 1,797.6 1,528.3 Property, plant and equipment 11 61.6 43.4 Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company Goodwill 12 650.7 567.0 Share capital 17 0.7 0.7 Other intangible assets 13 92.0 77.2 Share premium account 27.2 24.9 Deferred tax assets 6 48.0 55.9 Capital reserve 354.3 354.3 Total non-current assets 1,171.9 966.3 Share option reserve 61.4 61.4 Total assets 2,120.2 1,837.2 Retained earnings 1,213.3 991.8 Revaluation reserve 17.7 4.3 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on Cumulative translation adjustment 123.0 90.9 pages56to 93 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2016 and were signed on its Total equity 1,797.6 1,528.3 behalfby: Simon Segars Chris Kennedy Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 58 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Consolidated cash flow statement 2015 2014 2015 2014 For the year ended 31 December Note m m For the year ended 31 December Note m m Profit before tax 414.8 316.5 Investing activities Investment income net of interest payable and similar charges 11.8 11.0 Interest received net of interest paid of 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million 11.1 13.3 Share of results of joint ventures 3.1 3.5 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 30.5 20.4 Profit from operations 406.1 309.0 Purchases of other intangible assets 10.5 10.0 Adjustments for: Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 3.8 5.0 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 42.0 35.6 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 6.4 2.2 Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 70.5 68.5 Purchase of shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments, net 102.8 145.1 Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 1.0 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 19 62.3 12.8 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 5.6 0.3 Investment in joint ventures 26 2.7 Provision of loan to joint venture 16 2.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 Provision for doubtful debts 0.1 0.3 Net cash used in investing activities 198.0 177.8 Non-cash foreign currency losses 2.9 3.4 Financing activities Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts 1.6 9.9 Proceeds received on issuance of shares 17 2.3 6.8 Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives 4.3 9.6 Proceeds received on issuance of shares from treasury 7.1 Changes in working capital Purchase of own shares 18 92.2 66.9 Accounts receivable 37.2 4.0 Dividends paid to shareholders 7 107.8 86.1 Repayment of borrowings 1.2 Inventories 0.9 0.3 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 5.1 6.4 Prepaid expenses and other assets 17.4 9.9 Accounts payable 0.4 4.5 Net cash used in financing activities 195.7 153.8 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 14.2 10.0 Deferred revenue 26.2 24.8 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 54.1 43.8 Accrued and other liabilities 22.5 11.6 Cash generated by operations before tax 453.4 372.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.6 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 40.5 54.1 Income taxes paid 73.9 30.8 Net cash from operating activities 379.5 341.6 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 59 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity Attributable to the owners of the Company Attributable to the owners of the Company Share Share Cumulative Share Share Cumulative Share premium Capital option Retained Revaluation translation Share premium Capital option Retained Revaluation translation capital account reserve reserve earnings reserve adjustment Total capital account reserve reserve earnings reserve adjustment Total For the year ended 31 December m m m m m m m m For the year ended 31 December m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2015 0.7 24.9 354.3 61.4 991.8 4.3 90.9 1,528.3 Balance at 1 January 2014 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 56.3 1,311.4 Profit for the year 339.7 339.7 Profit for the year 255.4 255.4 Other comprehensive income: Other comprehensive income: Unrealised holding gain on availableUnrealised holding gain on availablefor-sale financial assets net of tax of for-sale financial assets net of tax of 1.1 million 4.3 4.3 4.4 million 17.7 17.7 Unrealised holding gain on  translation adjustment 34.6 34.6 sale financial assets reclassified to income Total comprehensive income for statement net of tax of 1.1 million 4.3 4.3 the year 255.4 4.3 34.6 294.3 Currency translation adjustment 32.1 32.1 Shares issued on exercise of share options Total comprehensive income for and awards note 17 6.8 6.8 the year 339.7 13.4 32.1 385.2 Dividends note 7 86.1 86.1 Shares issued on exercise of share options Purchase of own shares note 18 66.9 66.9 and awards note 17 2.3 2.3 Credit in respect of employee share Dividends note 7 107.8 107.8 schemes 68.5 68.5 Purchase of own shares note 18 92.2 92.2 Movement on tax arising on share options and awards 0.3 0.3 Proceeds from sale of own shares 7.1 7.1 Credit in respect of employee share 6.8 84.2 77.4 schemes 70.5 70.5 Balance at 31 December 2014 0.7 24.9 354.3 61.4 991.8 4.3 90.9 1,528.3 Movement on tax arising on share options and awards 4.2 4.2 2.3 118.2 115.9 Balance at 31 December 2015 0.7 27.2 354.3 61.4 1,213.3 17.7 123.0 1,797.6 Ca pital reserve.
In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. was credited to reserves on consolidation in accordance with Section 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
The reserve has been classified as a capital reserve to reflect the nature of the original credit to equity arising on acquisition.
This represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The Company includes on its balance sheet equity investments, which are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
These are carried at fair value.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revaluation reserve except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, in which case losses would be recognised within the income statement.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
60 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements 1 T he Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial 1b Summary of significant accounting policies riskmanagement The significant accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements areset out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless 1a General information about the Group otherwise stated.
The business of the Group ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group design microprocessors, Basis of preparation physicalIP and related technology and software, and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded microprocessor applications.
Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group licences and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits ASICs The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with and application-specific standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology to systems companies for the historical cost convention as modified by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale AFS financial incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
assets and financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement including embedded derivatives and derivative instruments.
By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor Critical accounting estimates and judgements applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital televisions and PC peripherals, enterprise networking The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers.
accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable services to its licensees, systems companies and other systems designers.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
thecarrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Incorporation and history Segmental reporting ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation Theregistered office of the Company is 110Fulbourn Road, Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK.
that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
As at 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the Groups internal organisation and management structure The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited reflected this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM and Acorn Computers Limited, and operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until was provided with financial information.
The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its initial public offering was on 17April 1998. on consolidated results of operations.
The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee ofthe Group.
The result of this re-organisation is that the Group has one Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in England and Wales, Geomerics Limited reportable segment, namely the IP Group IPG.
Other revenue and costs not related to IPG are separately incorporated in England and Wales, ARM France SAS incorporated in France, ARM Germany GmbH disclosed in note 2. incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Sweden AB incorporated in Sweden, ARM Finland Oy incorporated in Finland, ARM Ireland Limited incorporated in the Republic of Ireland, ARM Hungary KFT incorporated in Hungary, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM Technologies Israel Limited incorporated in Israel, ARM Electronic Technology Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in PR China, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan, and ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 61 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations Impairment of goodwill New and amended standards adopted by the Group The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of There are no new or amended standards adopted by the Group in the year which have had a material impact the assets to which goodwill is allocated.
As discussed in detail in note 12, estimating the value-in-use requires on the Group.
the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the assets and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash flows.
The discount rate is based Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted on an estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% 2014: 10% pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% 2014: 11%.
The Group reviews the carrying IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial value of its assets including goodwill at the cash-generating unit level.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed Revenue recognition measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through Other Comprehensive Income OCI and fair value through profit and loss.
The basis The Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
In particular, as discussed of classification depends on the entitys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the in detail in the revenue recognition policy on page 62, estimates are made in relation to the use of the financial asset.
Investments in equity instruments are required to be measured at fair value through profit and  accounting method, which requires that the extent of progress toward completion loss with the irrevocable option at inception to present changes in fair value in OCI but not recycling.
There is of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of the  method now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IAS 39. is itself based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement except for the recognition customer acceptance is not obtained.
The Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value through the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future economic benefit to the Group.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument it is assumed that the fair value of each element can be estimated reliably.
The complexity of the estimation and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Early adoption is were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
permitted, subject to EU endorsement.
The Group is currently assessing IFRS 9s full impact.
Legal settlements and other contingencies IFRS 15 Revenue recognition deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlements requires the directors to estimate the information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue committed future legal and settlement fees the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required to indemnify a licensee.
obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts and related received from external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
The standard has been deferred pending further discussion regarding its implementation and is now effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Earlier application is permitted, subject to EU adoption.
The Group continues to assess the impact of IFRS 15 and is developing processes and systems to enable the transition to the new standard.
IFRS 16 Leases replaces the current guidance in IAS 17.
Under IAS 17, lessees were required to make a distinction between a finance lease on balance sheet and an operating lease off balance sheet.
IFRS 16 now requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for virtually all lease contracts.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier application permitted if IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, is also applied.
The Group is currently assessing IFRS 16s full impact.
62 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Licence revenues: Revenue recognition Revenue from standard licence products that are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have The Group follows the principles of IAS 18 Revenue, in determining appropriate revenue recognition been satisfied: policies.
In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the IP has been delivered to the customer.
The Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods.
Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over licensed IP is relinquished at the point at The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with which the IP is delivered to the customer.
ownership or effective control over the goods sold.
The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: any consideration due under the licensing arrangement The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
that is not deemed to be reliably measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably.
It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: any The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
economic benefits of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will flow to the Group.
Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing agreements in place with the It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably.
Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
Revenue from the sale of such licences is recognised on a  basis over the period from signing of the licence to completion of ARMs contractual obligations.
Under the percentageRevenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within of-completion method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the the Group.
period in which the likelihood of such losses is determined.
The  is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance.
After project completion, of licensees ARM technology-based products, revenues from support, maintenance and training and the sale provisions for additional post-delivery warranty work are recognised in research and development expenses.
of development boards and software toolkits.
Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due significantly outside the period over which the customisation is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benefits associated with these milestones will flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be included in the arrangement consideration.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 63 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Royalty revenues: In particular, it considers: Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly transaction will flow to the Group, and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, which the Group where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity: considers to be receipt of notification from the customer of product sales.
Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled: Other revenues: whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support before the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised: in the form of support, maintenance and training which consists of the right to receive services and or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a  basis.
Fees for the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the post-delivery service support are generally specified in the contract.
Revenue related to post-delivery service conclusions reached.
support is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates.
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for post-delivery service support is recognised on a straightWhere the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by the Group with the associated with such future milestones will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such licensee.
Services, such as training, that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient evidence that it is the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract and, therefore, accounted for separately.
Revenue is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
The Group does recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the not discount future invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
transaction will flow to the Group.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence such of the individual components based on each components fair value, where fair value is the selling price of as off-the-shelf software are recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership an item when sold separately.
Where a component in a multiple-component agreement has not previously have been transferred to the customer.
At that time, the Group has no further obligations except that, where been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued.
but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative to the book prices of the other components in the agreement.
If fair value of one or For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, more components in a multiple-component agreement is not determinable where such component is not the excess amount is recorded as amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable.
The excess considered incidental to the overall arrangement, the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such fair value of amounts invoiced over revenue recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee.
Where, in substance, two or more components of a contract are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the Intangible assets revenue recognition criteria are applied to the components as if they were a single component.
a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a Agreements including rights to unspecified future products as opposed to unspecified upgrades and business over the fair value of the assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired.
enhancements are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
In determining the fair value of recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an estimate of the economic life of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon the probability of any performance conditions being met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
64 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Income taxes b Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is balance sheet date in the countries where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
expected to benefit from them.
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business Management periodically evaluates individual positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which application software, and that are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis operational use, are capitalised.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
the future economic benefit of the asset acquired.
The benefit of UK research and development is recognised under the UKs Research and Development Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business Expenditure Credit RDEC scheme.
The benefit is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted combination, the directors are primarily responsible for determining the fair value of acquired against research and development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of agovernmentgrant.
Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of criteria set out in IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, for recognition as intangible assets other than assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences goodwill.
Management tracks the status of in-process research and development of intangible assets such are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset thattheir amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use.
or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences will be utilised.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the which are adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset, where the taxation authority permits a single net payment.
Computer software Three to five years Patents and licences Three to eleven years In 2013, a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made.
The UK patent box regime seeks to In-process research and development One to five years tax all profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.
The rules are to be phased in Developed technology One to seven years over five years from 1 April 2013 a company will be entitled to only 60% of the deduction in financial year Existing agreements and customer relationships One to six years 2013 14, rising to 100% by 2017 18.
As relevant patent box profits are taxed at 10% and other profits are Core technology Five years taxed at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the average rates expected Trademarks and tradenames One to five years to apply on realisation or settlement.
Order backlog One year The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on best estimates of potential additional taxes payable.
Provisions are calculated individually based upon advice received from tax advisers and relevant correspondence received from tax authorities.
Provisions are re-assessed by management at each period end date based upon any relevant new information received.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 65 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under Accounts receivable below.
In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on Provisions exercise of certain employee share options or vest of share awards under each jurisdictions tax rules.
As explained under Share-based payments below, a compensation expense is recorded in the Groups Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and result of past events: and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the awards.
As there is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is obligation: and the amount of the outflow can be reliably estimated.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Companys share price at the balance sheet date with the cumulative Segment reporting amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
As at is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the Groups internal organisation and management structure reflected this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM Impairment of assets was provided with financial information.
The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation on consolidated results of operations.
The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer but are tested annually for impairment.
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed and the Executive Committee ofthe Group.
The result of this re-organisation is that the Group has one for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not reportable segment, namely the IP Group IPG.
Other revenue and costs not related to IPG are separately be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the non-financial assets carrying amount exceeds Principles of consolidation its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its value-in-use.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible subsidiaries.
Intra-group transactions, including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.
The annual impairment tests in 2015 and 2014 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill.
Business combinations Furthermore, no trigger events have been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Groups T he results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible fixed assets are impaired.
If there is such an indication, the Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets E arn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets fair values less costs to sell and their values-in-use.
acquisition consideration or as employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
Ifthe recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written down to their recoverable amounts.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group In the case of equity securities classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
If any entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully such evidence exists for AFS financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset the date that control ceases.
previously recognised in the income statement is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed.
66 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments Associates The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2 A ssociates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally Share-based payments, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are Fair value is predominantly measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
A Monte-Carlo simulation is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially used for certain share awards that have market-based performance conditions.
The fair value determined at recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share of the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Joint ventures The Group operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase J oint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other Plan ESPP in the UK, US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries.
Options under the parties, whereby each party has a right to a share of the net assets of the arrangement.
Investments in SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise end of the scheme for the ESPP.
The UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which the Groups share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Group has recognised a compensation charge in respect of the SAYE plans and ESPPs.
The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
Research and development expenditure The Group also has an LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Where a product is calculated as detailed above.
technically feasible, production and sale are intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs are capitalised and The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
The Group believes marketing expenses, and general and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
its current process for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility, which is evidenced by a working model.
Accordingly, development costs incurred Employers taxes on share options after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have been Employers National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the capitalised to date.
exercise of certain share options and vesting of share awards.
In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of the relevant options and Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Any collaborative agreement whereby a third-party agrees to partially fund the Groups research and development is recognised over the period of the agreement as a Retirement benefit costs credit within research and development expenses.
The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and Government grants the US and to government pension schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are recognised as receivable when there is Israel and India.
The Group contributes to these plans based upon various fixed percentages of employee reasonable assurance that they will be received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with.
compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the related research and development costs for which the grant is compensating.
The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related expense.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 67 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and classified as operating leases.
Costs, net of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rates of exchange.
straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on such a basis.
Derivative financial instruments Finance leases The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are to accounts receivable, denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair The Groups currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from exchange rate movements value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease liability.
The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each period end.
The fair value of forward exchange achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of directly to the income statement.
foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the Foreign currency translation contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
primary economic environment in which that entity operates, except that of ARM Technologies Israel Limited which is US dollars.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation Embedded derivatives currency of the Group.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not b Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into meet certain requirements set out in the standard.
From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts the functional currency of each Group entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction.
denominated in a currency typically US dollars that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at closing nor the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner.
Where there are uninvoiced rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in general and amounts on such contracts, the Group carries such derivatives at fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is administrative expenses.
recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses.
c Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities none of which has the currency Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges of a hyper-inflationary economy not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
i A ssets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Dividends ii I ncome and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the rates of exchange at the Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are time of each transaction during the period.
disclosed as a component of the movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution iii A ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through when paid.
other comprehensive income via the cumulative translation adjustment.
68 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in Earnings per share payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock, receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
which are treated as cancelled.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within general and administrative conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Company had two categories of dilutive potential expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to employees and directors where receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year administrative expenses in the income statement.
and the awards and contingently issuable shares granted under the Companys RSU, DAB Plan, and LTIP schemes.
Asat 31 December 2015 no shares granted under the 2013, 2014 and 2015 LTIPs with marketProperty, plant and equipment based performance conditions were included since the current expectation is that these shares will not vest.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised Shares granted with EPS related performance conditions have been included to the extent that it is expected impairment loss.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs that the shares will vest.
directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the face of the consolidated income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly-liquid Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated investments with original maturities of three months or less.
The carrying amount approximates to fair value residual values, which are adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives used for this purpose are: Shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments Freehold buildings 25 years The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months Leasehold improvements Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter and maturing in less than one year to be short-term deposits.
Deposits with a maturity date of greater than Computer equipment Three to five years one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term.
Fixtures, fittings and motor vehicles Three to five years The Group has also placed money with certain banks in the form of Guaranteed Senior Secured Notes Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is which have similar characteristics to term deposits and may be shortor long-term.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
Accounts receivable Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables recognised within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 69 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Accounts payable Financial assets Accounts payable are recognised at face value as they are settled within 12 months.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, Treasury shares loans and receivables, and available-for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity attributable to the owners a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income of theCompany until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or statement are financial assets held-for-trading that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
They are initially related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement.
Specifically, the Groups currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category.
Gains or losses arising Share capital from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement are presented in Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
1c Financial risk management b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities by price erosion, rapid technological change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Accounts heightened foreign and domestic competition.
Significant technological changes in the industry could affect receivable, cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments are operating results.
classified as Loans and receivables see note 16.
The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
securities price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
c Available-for-sale financial assets AFS AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management to a sub-committee of the Board.
The policies set by the directors are implemented by the management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Groups finance and treasury departments.
The Group has a treasury policy that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where Publicly-traded investments are classified as AFS.
Initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs on the it would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
trade date, they are revalued at market value at each period end.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve Currency risk except where there is evidence of permanent impairment see below.
The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classified as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling.
The Group seeks to use plus transaction costs.
Given that the markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar sterling risk as appropriate, by by using valuation techniques.
The estimated fair value of these investments approximated to cost less any monitoring the timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts which tend to arise from low-volume, permanent diminution in value based on estimates determined by management, except where independent high-value licence deals and royalty receipts in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses valuation information is obtained.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of in US dollars.
The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and hedges this exposure using related taxes, through other comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate.
Such contracts of permanent impairment in which case the loss is recognised through the income statement within general are entered into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
and administrative expenses or exceptional items where appropriate.
When securities classified as AFS are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled through the income statement.
70 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued Credit risk The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries.
At present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, the Group does not intend to move assets between Group companies.
including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The amount of foreign exchange instruments are recorded in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
movements on the accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits balances being hedged.
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions.
The Group performs credit checks on all customers other than those paying in advance in In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the euro and order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due.
As such, the balance Japanese yen.
The Group is also required to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in its of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of low risk of French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not considered significant, the default due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance Group does not take out forward-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies.
against these receivables is in place to cover this low risk of default.
The Group generally does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, Interest rate risk well-established companies.
The Group has not experienced any significant losses related to individual Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under Liquidity risk below.
Other financial No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant assets, such as AFS financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
losses from non-performance by these counterparties, other than those already provided for.
The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate fluctuations in place at the Liquidity risk year-end since the level of financing was not considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is The Groups policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits applied.
The Groups cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily basis.
Excess cash, considering expected and similar instruments, such that highly liquid resources exceed the Groups projected cash outflows at all future cash flows, is placed on either shortor long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon.
Surplus funds are placed on fixedor floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing economic Daily surpluses are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
climate at the time with reference to forward interest rates and also on the required maturity of the Securities price risk deposit as driven by the expected timing of the Groups cash receipts and payments over the short to medium term.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS financial assets.
As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for these securities which are generally unlisted at the time of investment Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups shortand medium-term expected cash flows.
or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate each investment opportunity on its This is carried out at both a local and a Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group merits before committing the Groups funds.
The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular asrequired.
basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Groups financial results.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 71 1c Financial risk management continued 2 Segmental reporting Capital risk management The Groups internal operational structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014, to create an organisation that is more scalable and more accountable, and that offers a more integrated product portfolio.
As at The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, the Groups internal organisation and management structure concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an reflected this change and this is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM appropriate capital structure to have sufficient capital to make strategic investments, including acquisitions.
was provided with financial information.
The CODM assesses performance and allocates resources based The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and on consolidated results of operations.
The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet.
and the Executive Committee ofthe Group.
The result of this re-organisation is that the Group has one reportable segment, namely the IP Group IPG.
The Groups strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in longterm profitable growth, prevailing trading conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over In the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group incurred other costs of 19 million and generated other time.
The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year since.
Between 2005 and 2008, revenues of 4 million that were not related to IPG.
an ongoing share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought back at an average price of 1.22.
In 2015, the interim dividend was increased by 25% and the directors are During the year ended 31 December 2015, no customer accounted for more than 10% of the Groups total proposing a 25% increase in the final dividend, reflecting the Boards long-term confidence in the business.
revenues 2014: no customer accounted for more than 10%.
As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board has undertaken a limited share buyback programme to maintain a flat share-count over time.
During 2015, 9.0 million shares 2014: 7.9 million were repurchased for Geographical information 92.2 million 2014: 66.9 million.
The capital structure is continually monitored by the Group.
The Group manages its business on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to areas.
The UK is the home country of the parent Company.
The main operations are in the following shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
principal territories: Valuation hierarchy Europe The Group classifies its financial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted United States quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments: level 2 instruments are those valued using Asia Pacific techniques based significantly on observable market data: and level 3 instruments are those valued using information other than observable market data.
The Group recognises transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels as of the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
The Group has a team that performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values.
This team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee.
The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments, and accounts and other payables approximate to their carrying amount.
72 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Analysis of revenue by destination : Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m United States 365.7 321.8 Royalties Processors 463.1 326.0 PR China 187.0 116.8 Royalties Physical IP 46.9 36.5 Taiwan 141.8 133.7 Licensing Processors 326.6 309.1 South Korea 99.8 68.5 Licensing Physical IP 54.0 52.1 Japan 70.9 60.4 Software and tools 37.3 35.0 Singapore 29.9 18.5 Services 40.4 36.5 Switzerland 26.7 17.9 968.3 795.2 Germany 11.1 12.3 Netherlands 9.4 8.1 Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : Russia 2.5 11.3 2015 2014 Rest of Europe 19.5 21.9 m m Rest of Asia Pacific 3.5 2.4 Europe 343.9 237.7 Rest of North America 0.5 1.6 United States 28.1 23.4 968.3 795.2 Asia Pacific 9.2 5.2 Destination is defined as the location of the Groups customers operations.
381.2 266.3 Includes the UK, which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 341.0 million in 2015 2014: 235.5 million, of which long-term deposits accounted for 298.0 million 2014: 191.4 million.
The Groups revenue within the home country of the parent Company amounted to 5.1 million and 7.8million for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 respectively.
The Groups exports from the UK were 950.7 million and 778.9 million for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 respectively.
Analysis of revenue by origin: 2015 2014 m m Europe 960.3 786.9 United States 8.0 8.3 968.3 795.2 Includes the UK, which had total revenues of 955.8 million in 2015 2014: 786.7 million.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 73 3 Key management compensation and directors emoluments 4 Employee information Key management compensation The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and nonexecutive directors of ARM Holdings plc together with the Executive Committee comprising all directors 2015 2014 of ARM Limited and certain senior management.
These persons have authority and responsibility for Number Number planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
At 31 December 2015, By activity keymanagement comprised 20 people 2014: 20.
Research and development 2,639 2,173 The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below: Sales and marketing 498 481 General and administrative 465 418 2015 2014 m m 3,602 3,072 Salaries and short-term employee benefits 8.1 6.9 Staff costs for the above persons Share-based payments 6.0 7.9 Wages and salaries 246.7 203.6 Post-employment benefits 0.3 0.4 Medical care costs 9.0 6.1 14.4 15.2 Share-based payments note 20 70.5 68.5 Social security costs 32.7 29.1 Directors emoluments Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards 1.4 2.4 The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below: Other pension costs 13.1 11.5 370.6 316.4 2015 2014 m m Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 3.8 2.8 Aggregate payments for pension-related benefits 0.1 0.2 Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 0.1 Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 5.3 2.5 Aggregate amounts receivable under the LTIP 2.0 2.5 11.2 8.1 Detailed disclosures of directors emoluments are shown on page 28.
Details of directors interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 31 to 35, which form part of the financial statements.
74 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor and its associates: 2015 2014 m m 2015 2014 m m Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 370.6 316.4 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and consolidated Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 3.5 3.8 financial statements 0.3 0.3 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 11 17.3 14.1 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment under finance leases note 11 5.4 5.0 The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Amortisation of other intangible assets note 13 Audit-related assurance services services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 0.4 0.4 Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 0.9 0.9 Research and development expenses 9.7 7.5 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 Sales and marketing expenses 0.1 0.2 All other non-audit services 0.1 General and administrative expenses 9.2 8.5 1.0 1.1 Government grants research and development expenditure credit 9.6 8.8 All other non-audit services includes the provision of advice relating to the Groups procurement model in 2014.
Impairment of non-current AFS financial assets note 10 0.3 1.0 Net profit on disposal of AFS financial assets 5.7 0.3 Other operating lease rentals payable Plant and machinery 28.4 26.0 Property 16.3 11.3 Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision note 8 0.1 0.3 Fair value movement on embedded derivatives 4.3 9.6 Other foreign exchange gains losses 3.2 6.8 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 75 6 Tax The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: Analysis of charge in the year: 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Profit before tax 414.8 316.5 Current tax: Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 84.0 68.1 Current tax on profits for the year 71.3 54.5 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.9 1.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.9 2.0 Total current tax 69.4 53.5 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 6.9 6.3 Deferred tax: Research and development tax credits 3.8 3.7 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.7 8.6 Current impact of the UK patent box regime 21.9 15.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.0 US deferred tax assets not recognised 0.9 Total deferred tax 5.7 7.6 Foreign withholding tax 1.6 2.5 Income tax expense 75.1 61.1 Impact of share-based payments 3.8 5.2 Other 6.4 4.7 Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: Total taxation 75.1 61.1 2015 2014 Includes California R&D tax credits not recognised as future California tax is not expected to absorb all of the taxbenefit.
m m Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes and potential additional tax payable on income.
Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards 4.0 10.6 Current tax benefit on share options and awards 8.2 10.9 Deferred tax charge on AFS financial assets 3.3 1.1 76 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only Deferred tax offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
Deferred tax assets Tax losses The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Amounts Temporary and R&D Temporary relating to differences tax credits differences 2015 2014 share-based relating to carried relating to m m payments fixed assets forward liabilities Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 55.5 65.2 At 1 January 2015 24.3 1.7 25.9 8.1 60.0 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertakings 4.7 0.4 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.1 0.1 Income statement charge 5.7 7.6 Movement from current tax assets 6.4 6.4 Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 4.0 10.6 Income statement credit charge 1.3 1.7 7.6 0.5 1.8 5.7 Movement from current tax assets 6.4 9.3 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding Revaluation of AFS financial asset 3.3 1.1 share options and awards 4.0 4.0 Exchange differences 0.6 0.7 Exchange differences 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 44.8 55.5 At 31 December 2015 prior to offsetting 21.6 25.7 8.6 1.8 57.7 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 9.7 Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences At 31 December 2015 after offsetting 48.0 giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will At 1 January 2014 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7 be recovered.
Movement from current tax assets 9.3 9.3 Income statement credit charge 2.1 2.2 6.2 0.1 0.9 7.1 The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2015 was 5.6 million 2014: 5.8 million.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and California research Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and awards 10.6 10.6 and development tax credits.
The losses may remain unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and availability of relevant future profits.
Exchange differences 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2014 prior to offsetting 24.3 1.7 25.9 8.1 60.0 No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further 49.3 million 2014: 43.1 million of unremitted Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 4.1 earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of At 31 December 2014 after offsetting 55.9 these differences and either it is possible that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is 29.7 million 2014: 32.0 million.
During 2015, the UK Government published draft legislation introducing a new Patent Box regime based on the newly adopted modified nexus approach for IP assets submitted after 30 June 2016.
UK taxpayers that have already submitted assets under the current form of the Patent Box will be allowed to continue to claim benefit through the current regime until 30 June 2021 for those assets.
If these taxpayers also submit assets post 30 June 2016 then the benefits relating to these assets will be claimed under the new regime.
Such taxpayers will operate under both regimes until 30 June 2021 when all benefits claimed through the Patent Box will be through the modified nexus approach.
These changes have not been enacted at the balance sheet date and therefore are not taken into account in the measurement of deferred tax.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 77 6 Tax continued 8 Accounts receivable Deferred tax liabilities 2015 2014 m m Amounts relating Temporary to intangible difference on Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 24 133.5 138.5 assets arising AFS financial Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 1.0 9.0 on acquisition assets Other Total m m m m Trade debtors, net 132.5 129.5 At 1 January 2015 3.1 1.1 0.3 4.5 Amounts recoverable on contracts 51.2 9.1 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertakings 4.8 4.8 Current accounts receivable 183.7 138.6 Movement through reserves 3.3 3.3 Exchange differences 0.3 0.3 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: At 31 December 2015 prior to offsetting 8.2 4.4 0.3 12.9 2015 2014 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 9.7 m m At 31 December 2015 after offsetting 3.2 At 1 January 9.0 9.7 At 1 January 2014 2.5 2.5 Charge to income statement 0.1 0.3 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.4 0.4 Utilised 6.5 2.5 Income statement charge 0.2 0.3 0.5 Reclassification from deferred income 1.5 1.4 Movement through reserves 1.1 1.1 Foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2014 prior to offsetting 3.1 1.1 0.3 4.5 At 31 December 1.0 9.0 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 4.1 At 31 December 2014 after offsetting 0.4 See also note 16 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is 1.3 million 2014: 1.0 million.
9 Prepaid expenses and other assets 2015 2014 7 Dividends m m 2015 2014 Other receivables 22.9 19.3 m m Prepayments 28.7 23.9 Final 2013 paid at 3.60 pence per share 50.7 Current prepaid expenses and other assets 51.6 43.2 Interim 2014 paid at 2.52 pence per share 35.4 Plus: non-current prepaid expenses and other assets 1.4 1.7 Final 2014 paid at 4.50 pence per share 63.5 Total prepaid expenses and other assets 53.0 44.9 Interim 2015 paid at 3.15 pence per share 44.3 107.8 86.1 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 5.63 pence per share, which will absorb an estimated 79 million of shareholders funds.
Subject to approval at the 2016 AGM, it will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 22 April 2016.
78 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Available-for-sale financial assets Current investments 2015 2014 During 2015 there has been a transfer out of level 3 and into level 1 financial instrument assets.
This is a result Non-current available-for-sale financial assets m m of Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd listing on the Shenzhen stock exchange in China.
This financial asset Net book value is considered to be a current level 1 asset since it has an active market.
The value of this investment as at 31 December 2015 is 23.1 million.
At 31 December 2014, the Group had no listed investments.
At 1 January 23.7 13.9 Additions 3.8 5.0 The Groups investments include the following companies: Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 2.8 5.4 Transfer to current 3.8 Ambiq Micro Inc. Disposals 15.0 Cambridge Innovation Capital plc Foreign exchange translation 0.4 0.4 Impairment recognised through income statement general and administrative expenses 0.3 1.0 Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. At 31 December 11.6 23.7 Marmalade Technologies Limited formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited 2015 2014 Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise Current available-for-sale financial assets m m Net book value Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd At 1 January 1.2 Triad Semiconductor Inc. Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 19.3 Transfer from non-current 3.8 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Disposals 1.2 2015 2014 At 31 December 23.1 m m Current: Non-current investments Listed equity securities China 23.1 Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development Non-current: enterprises, which are generating value for shareholders through research and development activities, and Unlisted equity securities UK 6.6 6.5 most do not currently report profits.
The fair value of these investments is considered to approximate to Unlisted equity securities US 1.6 1.6 cost or is determined using independent valuation information where available.
Non-current available-for-sale Unlisted equity securities ROW 3.4 7.4 investments noted above are considered to be level 3 financial assets see note 16.
Convertible loan notes UK 1.3 Convertible loan notes US 6.9 Included within the 15.0 million disposals noted in the above table were 8.7 million $12.9 million of convertible loan notes in Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc. which were converted on acquisition on 15 April 2015 Total available-for-sale financial assets 34.7 23.7 see note 19.
Available-for-sale financial assets are held in the following currencies: A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested and does not have independent valuation information e. g. through the occurrence of transactions in the 2015 2014 m m relevant entitys equity instruments as at 31 December 2015 would have reduced the Groups post-tax profit Sterling 11.6 15.5 by 1.0 million 2014: 1.5 million and resulted in a nil 2014: nil reduction in other components of equity.
US dollars 8.2 Chinese Yuan 23.1 Total available-for-sale financial assets 34.7 23.7 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 79 11 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings Assets in the Fixtures, fittings Assets in the Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m m m m m m m Cost Cost At 1 January 2015 0.2 20.0 70.5 8.2 1.0 99.9 At 1 January 2014 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5 Additions 10.1 24.7 4.2 0.6 39.6 Additions 3.0 21.8 1.6 1.9 28.3 Acquisitions 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.6 Acquisitions 0.1 0.2 0.3 Transfers 1.4 1.4 Transfers 1.0 1.0 Disposals 5.2 9.9 1.1 0.1 16.3 Reclassification 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 0.6 1.1 0.3 2.0 Disposals 7.8 3.6 0.6 12.0 At 31 December 2015 0.2 25.6 88.2 11.7 0.1 125.8 Exchange differences 0.6 1.8 0.3 2.1 Accumulated depreciation At 31 December 2014 0.2 20.0 70.5 8.2 1.0 99.9 At 1 January 2015 0.1 9.8 41.4 5.2 56.5 Accumulated depreciation Charge for the year 3.3 17.7 1.7 22.7 At 1 January 2014 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 47.9 Disposals 5.2 9.7 1.1 16.0 Charge for the year 2.8 15.1 1.2 19.1 Exchange differences 0.3 0.6 0.1 1.0 Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2015 0.1 8.2 50.0 5.9 64.2 Disposals 7.7 3.3 0.6 11.6 Net book value Exchange differences 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.9 At 31 December 2015 0.1 17.4 38.2 5.8 0.1 61.6 At 31 December 2014 0.1 9.8 41.4 5.2 56.5 Net book value At 31 December 2014 0.1 10.2 29.1 3.0 1.0 43.4 Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
Included within computer equipment are assets with net book value of 13.7 million 2014: 9.5 million held under finance leases.
80 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Goodwill Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to rise steadily over the period of the calculation.
IP Group IoT Total m m m Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
At 1 January 2014 520.1 5.8 525.9 Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill is appropriate and that the assumptions Exchange differences 29.7 0.4 30.1 used in estimating its recoverable amount are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in Acquisition Duolog note 19 10.7 10.7 the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions Acquisition Offspark note 19 0.3 0.3 would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated recoverable amount At 31 December 2014 560.5 6.5 567.0 exceeds the carrying value.
Exchange differences 26.4 1.6 28.0 Acquisition Wicentric note 19 1.8 1.8 IoT: Acquisition SMD note 19 6.5 6.5 Acquisition Sansa note 19 7.1 28.7 35.8 Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2025 of 3% per annum.
The ten-year forecast is based on the Groups detailed strategic Acquisition Carbon note 19 11.6 11.6 plan for years one to three extrapolated for the remaining years.
Given the long-term nature of the plan for At 31 December 2015 613.9 36.8 650.7 this cash-generating unit it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
The Group has been investing in activities related to the Internet-of-Things IoT.
On 30 July 2015, the Group acquired the share capital of Discretix, Inc trading as Sansa Security, Inc Sansa.
The majority of the goodwill Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by and assets acquired as part of this acquisition are considered to be related to IoT.
IoT is now considered to senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical be a separate cash-generating unit from IPG.
The goodwill allocated to IoT has been subject to a separate experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Significant revenue growth is planned impairment review, as goodwill is monitored by the Group at the cash-generating unit level.
starting from the current immaterial level.
During the fourth quarter of 2015, the directors tested the Groups goodwill balances for impairment in Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to improve from losses in the early years to accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
Their recoverable amounts have been measured based on a approximately 40% over the period of the calculation.
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill is appropriate and that the assumptions IP Group: used in estimating its recoverable amount are appropriate.
In making this assessment the directors have considered possible scenarios that could result in an impairment.
The calculation is most sensitive to variations Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal in the revenue assumptions where a reduction in planned revenues of greater than 30% could result in an growth rate after 2025 of 3% per annum.
The ten-year forecast is based on the Groups detailed strategic impairment of goodwill.
plan for years one to three extrapolated for the remaining years.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation or the Groups current plans for this cashthe expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
generating unit could change, the directors believe that based on the existing strategy it is reasonable to value the goodwill attributed to IoT at its purchased value and that no impairment is necessary as at Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by 31 December 2015. senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 81 13 Other intangible assets Existing Existing agreements agreements In-process and Trademarks In-process and Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed customer Core and Computer Patents and research and Developed customer Core and software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames Total software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Cost Cost At 1 January 2015 20.7 99.1 6.2 50.3 55.2 17.5 4.7 253.7 At 1 January 2014 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 246.5 Additions 2.3 9.1 11.4 Additions 2.6 5.1 7.7 Acquisitions 3.0 18.2 1.2 22.4 Acquisitions 2.7 2.7 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Reclassification 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 1.1 2.2 0.9 0.2 4.9 Disposals 1.7 6.9 8.6 At 31 December 2015 22.5 108.2 9.6 69.6 58.6 18.4 4.9 291.8 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 0.9 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.1 Accumulated amortisation At 31 December 2014 20.7 99.1 6.2 50.3 55.2 17.5 4.7 253.7 At 1 January 2015 15.5 35.5 6.2 41.9 55.2 17.5 4.7 176.5 Accumulated amortisation Charge for the year 3.1 12.7 0.2 3.2 0.1 19.3 At 1 January 2014 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 163.6 Disposals 0.6 0.6 Charge for the year 3.0 11.0 1.9 0.2 0.4 16.5 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 0.9 2.2 0.9 0.2 4.6 Disposals 1.9 6.9 8.8 At 31 December 2015 18.1 48.2 6.7 46.0 57.5 18.4 4.9 199.8 Exchange differences 0.1 0.4 1.0 2.4 1.0 0.3 5.2 Net book value At 31 December 2014 15.5 35.5 6.2 41.9 55.2 17.5 4.7 176.5 At 31 December 2015 4.4 60.0 2.9 23.6 1.1 92.0 Net book value At 31 December 2014 5.2 63.6 8.4 77.2 The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
used in SoCs, with a carrying value of 12.5 million at 31 December 2015 2014: 14.2 million and a remaining useful life of seven years, and IP rights acquired with a carrying value of 27.7million at 31 December 2015 2014: 32.5 million and a remaining useful life of six years.
82 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Accrued and other liabilities 16 Financial instruments 2015 2014 a Financial instruments by category m m The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Accruals: Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 11.4 12.8 Financial assets Employee bonus and sales commissions 28.2 19.3 Assets at fair value through Other accruals including 6.3 million non-current 2014: nil 55.0 37.3 Loans and the income AvailableTotal accruals 94.6 69.4 receivables statement for-sale Total m m m m At 31 December 2015 Other taxation and social security 5.2 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 40.5 40.5 Other payables 7.2 6.5 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 617.8 617.8 Total accrued and other liabilities 107.0 80.6 Embedded derivatives 6.9 6.9 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 184.7 184.7 15 Finance lease liabilities Available-for-sale financial assets listed 23.1 23.1 2015 2014 m m Total current financial assets 843.0 6.9 23.1 873.0 Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Long-term deposits and similar instruments 298.0 298.0 Within one year 5.5 4.1 Loans and receivables 6.0 6.0 In the second to fifth years inclusive 6.2 2.6 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 11.6 11.6 Less: future finance charges 0.4 0.2 Total non-current financial assets 304.0 11.6 315.6 Present value of lease obligations 11.3 6.5 Total financial assets 1,147.0 6.9 34.7 1,188.6 At 31 December 2014 Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 5.2 3.9 Cash and cash equivalents 54.1 54.1 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 6.1 2.6 Short-term deposits and similar instruments 620.8 620.8 Present value of lease obligations 11.3 6.5 Embedded derivatives 2.6 2.6 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 147.6 147.6 The Group has entered into threeand four-year finance lease arrangements in respect of certain Total current financial assets 822.5 2.6 825.1 ITequipment.
Long-term deposits and similar instruments 191.4 191.4 Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 23.7 23.7 Total non-current financial assets 194.4 23.7 218.1 Total financial assets 1,016.9 2.6 23.7 1,043.2 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 83 16 Financial instruments continued Level 3 AFS financial assets consist of unlisted equity investments and other current investments.
The estimated fair value of the unlisted equity investments approximates to cost less any permanent a Financial instruments by category continued diminution in value based on managements estimate of forecast profitability and achievement of set Financial liabilities objectives by the relevant entity, except where independent valuation information is obtained, e. g. 2015 2014 through the occurrence of funding or other transactions in the relevant entitys equity instruments.
m m Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the level 3 calculation could change, the directors believe that Accounts payable 12.7 11.7 no reasonably foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in a significant change in fair value.
Accrued and other liabilities 57.0 46.8 Finance lease liabilities 11.3 6.5 Maturity of financial liabilities 81.0 65.0 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: remaining period from the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 4.8 the impact of discounting is not significant.
Total financial liabilities 84.2 69.8 Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial Between Between instruments.
Less than six months and one and Over six months one year two years two years m m m m Valuation hierarchy At 31 December 2015: As at 31 December 2015, the Groups financial instrument assets consisted of embedded derivatives level2 Accounts payable 12.7 of 6.9 million 2014: 2.6 million and AFS financial assets level 1 of 23.1 million current 2014: nil Accrued and other liabilities 54.3 0.9 1.8 current and level 3 of 11.6 million non-current 2014: 23.7 million non-current.
Finance lease liabilities 3.0 2.2 3.5 2.6 Fair value of currency exchange contracts 2.4 0.8 As at 31 December 2015, the Groups financial instrument liabilities consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income statement level 2 of 3.2 million 2014: 4.8 million.
At 31 December 2014: The Level 1 AFS financial asset consists of a listed equity investment.
The fair value is determined with Accounts payable 11.7 reference to prices quoted on the relevant exchange at the balance sheet date.
Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 Finance lease liabilities 2.3 1.6 2.1 0.5 Level 2 currency exchange contracts comprise forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options.
Fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.2 1.2 0.4 The fair value of the forward exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an active market.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
84 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments a Financial instruments by category continued This table analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed Loans and receivables in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Amounts due within 12 months equal their carrying During 2010, the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
This was recognised in loans and receivables at its initial fair value of 1.9 million, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of 0.6 million being recognised as interest payable and similar Over three charges during 2010.
During 2013 the Group invested a further 0.7 million with Future Business.
months but Between Less than less than six months Greater than three months six months and one year one year In addition, the Group is owed a balance of 2.9 million from its joint venture Trustonic at 31 December 2015 m m m m 2014: nil in respect of loans and other amounts receivable.
Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2015 The carrying value of the total loans amounted to 6.0 million at 31 December 2015 2014: 3.0 million, with Outflow $160.0 $40.0 $20.0 0.1 million being recognised as interest receivable during 2015 2014: 0.1 million.
Inflow 106.3 26.5 13.4 Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2015 The Group had no borrowings during 2015 and 2014.
Outflow maximum $51.8 $51.8 $59.5 Inflow maximum 35.1 35.1 40.4 Short-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on short-term deposits and similar instruments outstanding at the year-end was 1.35% 2014: 1.29% and these deposits have an average Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2014 maturity of 189 days 2014: 205 days.
Outflow $133.0 $28.0 $13.0 Long-term deposits and similar instruments The effective interest rate on long-term deposits and similar Inflow 83.6 17.9 8.4 instruments outstanding at the year-end was 1.52% 2014: 1.61% and these deposits have an average Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2014 maturity of 522 days 2014: 576 days.
Outflow maximum $59.1 $59.3 $88.5 $24.0 Inflow maximum 37.3 37.4 56.6 16.0 Fair value of currency exchange contracts The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the forward rates.
The estimation of the fair value of the liability in respect of currency exchange contracts was 3.2 million at 31 December 2015 2014:4.8 million.
The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amounting to again of 1.6 million 2014: loss of 9.4 million.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 85 16 Financial instruments continued Credit risk b Credit quality of financial assets Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with either a Moodys rating of at least A2 P-1, a Fitch rating of at least Trade debtors A F1, or UK building societies with over 2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where the On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the majority of the Groups aline-by-line basis.
Either a provision is made or the lack thereof is justified, with review by senior members cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments were deposited with of the Groups finance team.
major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and 2015 2014 corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years.
At 31 December 2015, over 99% 2014: 99% m m of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments were Trade debtors gross of impairment provision : deposited with major clearing banks and building societies fulfilling these criteria.
Not yet due 101.6 86.5 Interest rate risk Under 90 days overdue 26.4 31.0 At 31 December 2015, the Group had 956.1 million 2014: 873.1 million of interest-bearing assets.
Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 4.5 12.0 At31December 2015, 95% 2014: 93% of interest-bearing assets comprising cash and cash equivalents, Fully provided for 1.0 9.0 shortand long-term deposits and similar instruments, loans and receivables, and the Groups loan to joint Total 133.5 138.5 venture are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
Had interest rates been 1% 100 basis points lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately As shown above, at 31 December 2015, trade debtors less than 90 days overdue excluding those amounts 8.5million 2014: 7.3 million and profit after tax by 6.8 million 2014: 5.8 million.
that are not yet due amounted to 26.4 million.
Of those outstanding at 31 December 2015, 18.6 million had been collected by 15 February 2016 and 6.9 million was owed by large, established customers.
Similarly, Currency risk debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to 4.5 million, of which 0.6 million At 31 December 2015, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $220 million had been collected by 15 February 2016 and 2.5 million was owed by large, established customers.
For the 2014:$174 million for sterling.
In addition, the Group utilises option instruments which have various remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option customers concerned.
These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the control outlined to exercise.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group above.
No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a may, under certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $163 million 2014: $231 million for sterling.
material threat to the Groups future results.
A common scenario with options of this type is that the spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had $196 million As shown above, at 31 December 2015, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to 1.0 million 2014:$212million of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash and 2014:9.0million.
All of the trade debtors provided for at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 cash equivalents, and short-term deposits of $18 million 2014: $41 million.
Thus, the Groups US dollar wereover six months overdue.
assets were less than currency exchange contracts and currency options outstanding at the year-end.
Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contracts taking into consideration both At 31 December 2015, one customer 2014: no customer accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable.
the current and expected future level of US dollar assets.
Based on the predictable nature of the Groups cash flows, the Group typically has a greater value of currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held.
At 31 December 2015, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 5.3 million lower 2014: 4.0 million lower, mainly as a result of the mix of financial instruments at respective year-ends.
86 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Share capital 19 Acquisitions 2015 2014 The Group acquired the entire share capital of three companies in 2015: Wicentric, Inc. acquired on m m 5 February 2015, Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc. SMD, acquired on 15 April 2015 and Discretix, Inc. trading as Authorised Sansa Security, Inc. Sansa, acquired on 30 July 2015.
In addition the Group acquired the trade and certain 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2014: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 assets of Carbon Design Systems, Inc.
Wicentric is a Bluetooth Smart stack and profile provider and SMD is a provider of sub-one volt radio 2015 2014 intellectual property IP.
The IP of both companies is being integrated to form a portfolio that will Number of Number of shares m Value m shares m Value m complement ARMs existing processor and physical IP, targeting end markets requiring low-power wireless Issued and fully paid communications such as the IoT.
At 1 January 1,412.2 0.7 1,400.3 0.7 The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and Allotted under employee incentive schemes 0.2 11.9 liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition.
At 31 December 1,412.4 0.7 1,412.2 0.7 Wicentric SMD 5 February 2015 15 April 2015 During 2015, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee m $m m $m incentive schemes was 2.3 million 2014: 6.8 million.
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.3 0.9 1.3 18 Own shares held Intangible assets 0.4 0.6 4.6 6.7 Treasury stock m Accrued and other liabilities 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.7 At 1 January 2015 66.9 Deferred tax liabilities net 0.1 0.2 1.6 2.3 Purchase of own shares 92.2 Net assets acquired 0.4 0.5 3.4 5.0 Issuance of shares 87.1 Goodwill 1.8 2.7 6.5 9.6 At 31 December 2015 72.0 Consideration 2.2 3.2 9.9 14.6 During the year, 92.2 million 2014: 66.9 million of shares were repurchased, representing 9.0 million The full consideration was paid in cash for Wicentric.
The majority of the consideration for SMD consisted 2014:7.9 million shares.
At 31 December 2015, 7.2 million 2014: 7.9 million shares were held as treasury of convertible loan notes and interest accrued with a fair value of 9.2 million $13.5 million, with the stock.
Own shares held have a nominal value of 0.05 pence and in total represent 0.5% of called-up remainder of the consideration settled in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been share capital.
charged to the income statement.
From their dates of acquisition to 31 December 2015, the acquisitions of Wicentric and SMD contributed 1.0 million in revenue and incurred a pre-tax loss of 3.5 million.
If both companies had been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement would have included an additional 1.0 million of revenue and 5.2 million of pre-tax loss.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 87 19 Acquisitions continued For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of the companies, including the founders and the management teams, the Group paid a premium for all four companies, giving rise to Sansa is a provider of hardware security IP and software for advanced system-on-chip components deployed goodwill.
All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets in IoT and mobile devices.
The company currently enables security in more than 150 million products a being recognised as goodwill.
year and Sansa technology is deployed across a range of smart connected devices and enterprise systems.
The acquisition complements the ARM security portfolio, which includes ARM TrustZone technology and Two acquisitions were made in 2014: Duolog Holdings Limited, acquired on 27 May 2014 for 13.9 million SecurCore processor IP.
11.4 million, and Offspark BV, acquired on 14 November 2014 for 1.5 million 1.2 million.
The Group acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been accounted for as acquisitions.
Carbon is a leading supplier of cycle-accurate virtual prototyping solutions, to deliver design optimisation, time-to-market and cost-efficiency gains for its Partners.
Duolog, a company based in Ireland and Hungary, is a leader in design configuration and integration technology for the semiconductor industry.
The acquisition strengthens the Groups IP configuration and The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and integration capability, helping ARM Partners design and deploy system IP and manage increasing SoC liabilities assumed at the date of each acquisition.
Sansa Carbon 30 July 2015 19 October 2015 Offspark BV, a company based in the Netherlands, is a company providing specialised services in the field of m $m m $m digital security focusing on online security, secure hardware and software and practical cryptography.
Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 4.8 7.4 0.1 0.1 For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of the companies, including the Intangible assets 11.5 17.8 5.9 9.1 founders and the management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill.
All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being Accrued and other liabilities 3.1 4.8 1.8 2.8 recognised as goodwill.
Deferred tax liabilities net 3.0 4.7 Net assets acquired 10.2 15.7 4.2 6.4 The following table summarises the consideration and final fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities Goodwill 35.8 55.6 11.6 18.0 assumed at the date of each acquisition.
Consideration 46.0 71.3 15.8 24.4 Duolog Offspark 27 May 2014 14 November 2014 The full consideration was paid in cash for both Sansa and Carbon.
All transaction expenses incurred by the m m m m Group have been charged to the income statement.
The rationale for the acquisition of Sansa is to accelerate Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, the Groups business into the IoT services market and to enhance future revenue streams rather than to plant and equipment 1.2 1.6 0.1 0.2 directly exploit the IP acquired.
Consequently the majority of the value to the Group is as an enabler to the Intangible assets 1.7 2.0 1.0 1.2 existing business which has resulted in the high proportion of goodwill as a percentage of the consideration.
Accrued and other liabilities 0.8 1.0 From 30 July 2015 to 31 December 2015, the acquisition of Sansa contributed 4.3 million in revenue and Loans payable 1.2 1.5 incurred a pre-tax profit of 0.4 million.
If Sansa had been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated Deferred tax liabilities net 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.3 income statement would have included an additional 10.2 million of revenue and 0.5 million of pre-tax loss.
Net assets acquired 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.1 Goodwill 10.7 13.1 0.3 0.4 From 19 October 2015 to 31 December 2015, the acquisition of Carbon contributed 0.7 million in revenue Consideration 11.4 13.9 1.2 1.5 and incurred a pre-tax profit of 0.1 million.
If Carbon had been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement would have included an additional 4.0 million of revenue and no pre-tax The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have profit or loss.
been charged to the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
88 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Acquisitions continued announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees From 27 May 2014 to 31 December 2014, the acquisition of Duolog contributed 1.3 million in revenue and in the UK, US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP.
The number of incurred a pre-tax loss of 0.7 million.
If Duolog had been consolidated from 1 January 2014, the consolidated options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is six months, income statement would have included 3.1 million of revenue and 0.5 million of pre-tax loss.
The trading with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of results of Offspark would have had no significant impact on the results of the Group.
Other: The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees and directors.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price During 2015 the Group also made payments in respect of time-based and performance bonuses of 1.1 million equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant.
These schemes are the UK Inland 2014: 1.4 million due as a result of the acquisition of Prolific Inc in 2011, 0.3 million 2014: 0.3 million due Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Unapproved Scheme as a result of the acquisition of Sensinode in 2013, 0.3 million 2014: nil due as a result of the acquisition of the Unapproved Scheme, the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the Duolog and 0.2 million 2014: nil due as a result of the acquisition of Geomerics in 2014. acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
Share options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward.
Shares relating to these schemes have all During 2014 the Group made a payment of 1.8 million in respect of time-based and performance bonuses vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2014 or due as a result of the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 2011.
All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2014.
20 Share-based payments As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 70.5 million Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather 2014: 68.5 million were charged to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1b.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option three and four years.
pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
The following assumptions for each option grant during 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan.
Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus Grant date 26 Jun 2015 30 Apr 2015 31 Oct 2015 23 Jun 2014 30 Apr 2014 31 Oct 2014 into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award Scheme SAYE ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
This scheme Share price at grant date 11.480 11.140 10.250 8.89 9.095 8.385 was replaced after the February 2014 grant with a cash-only bonus.
For details of the new scheme, see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29.
Exercise price 9.344 7.438 8.712 7.344 7.73 7.13 Number of employees 410 935 1,629 520 684 892 The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share Shares under option 327,021 403,562 482,833 651,142 280,996 361,083 awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance and normalised EPS performance Vesting period years 35 35 over the three-year performance period.
Grants were made for the last time under the former LTIP scheme Expected volatility 29%34% 33%35% in February 2013 for which the number of shares vesting depends only on the TSR performance of the Expected life years 35 35 Group.
For details of the new scheme, see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 31.
Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% Dividend yield 0.61% 0.64% The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group.
Fair value per option 3.2474.094 3.7025 1.5380 2.6303.180 1.365 1.258 The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 89 20 Share-based payments continued The assumptions for each grant during 2014 were as follows: The fair value of RSUs and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Black-Scholes model assumptions option pricing model.
As all are share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have Grant date 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 Feb 2014 8 May 2014 an exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of LTIP awards granted in 2014 Scheme DAB RSU French RSU LTIP EPS RSU and 2015 with non-market-based performance conditions i. e. based on EPS performance have also been estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Share price at grant date 8.96 8.96 8.96 8.96 8.715 Number of employees 54 2,625 114 59 149 For LTIP awards with market-based performance conditions issued from 2014 the fair value is based upon Shares awarded 509,078 4,455,185 165,927 745,615 391,556 Monte-Carlo simulation of the performance of the comparator companies in the FTSE 350 and the FTSE All Vesting period years 3 1-4 2-4 3 1-4 World Technology Index AWTI.
The Monte-Carlo simulation incorporates a range of other assumptions Expected volatility 35% 31%-36% 31%-36% 35% 31%-36% based on the TSR comparator companies: the assumptions given below relate to the Group.
The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
2014 A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2015 is shown below.
Weighted Weighted Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of Weighted average average average remaining life remaining life awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 91 21 Capital and other financial commitments At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
Currently, there are 2015 2014 m m legal proceedings against some of the Groups licensees in which it is asserted that certain of the Groups Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 7.5 2.9 technology infringes third-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has no obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnification have not been satisfied by such Other financial commitments expenditure on investments 3.2 5.4 licensees, or to the extent that there is any present obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
22 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which could At 31 December 2015, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: result in a material liability for the Group.
2015 2014 24 Related party transactions Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group incurred subscription costs of 7.0 million from m m m m m m Linaro Limited Linaro, an associated company of the Group, representing ARMs committed aggregate The future aggregate minimum lease contributions to Linaro for a period of two years 2014: nil.
In respect of the subscription fees, the Group payments under non-cancellable operating was invoiced 3.5 million during the year to 31 December 2015 2014: 3.5 million.
As at 31 December 2015, leases are as follows: 1.1 million 2014: 1.1 million was owed to Linaro.
Within one year 15.1 20.0 35.1 11.6 5.3 16.9 Later than one year and less than five years 38.4 24.3 62.7 31.7 31.7 In addition, the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to 1.3 million After five years 15.0 15.0 9.3 9.3 2014:1.1million.
All fees have been charged in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 26.
The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The remaining lease terms are between one and nine years, and the majority of lease agreements are Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3. renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
There were no other related party transactions during 2015 which require disclosure.
23 Financial contingencies It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss 25 Post-balance sheet events suffered by the licensee in the event that the technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third party.
After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 5.63 pence per Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its licensees.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders on the the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third party register on 22 April 2016.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended bringing an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee 31 December 2015. infringes such third partys IP rights.
The indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notification from the other party that they are likely to invoke the indemnity.
A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: i information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements: and ii the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated.
Any such provision is based upon the directors estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
92 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures Subsidiaries Details of subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Parent Parent proportion of proportion of nominal value Proportion of total nominal value Proportion of total Country of of issued shares Group nominal value of Country of of issued shares Group nominal value of Name of undertaking incorporation Principal activity held % issued shares held % Name of undertaking incorporation Principal activity held % issued shares held % ARM Limited England Marketing, research and less than 1 100 ARM IP Limited England and Wales IP holding company 100 100 and Wales development of RISC-based ARM Korea Limited South Korea Marketing of RISC-based 100 microprocessors and graphics IP microprocessor IP ARM Belgium Services BVBA Belgium Administration 100 ARM KK Japan Marketing of RISC-based 100 ARM Electronic Technology PR China Marketing, research and 100 microprocessor IP Shanghai Co, Limited development of RISC-based ARM Norway AS Norway Research and development of 100 microprocessors and graphics IP graphics IP ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
India Marketing, research and 100 ARM PIPD Holdings One, LLC US Holding company 100 Limited development of RISC-based ARM PIPD Holdings Two, LLC US Holding company 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM Sweden AB Sweden Research and development of 100 ARM Finance Overseas Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100 graphics IP ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 100 ARM Sansa Holdings, Inc US Dormant 100 ARM Finance UK Three Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 ARM Taiwan Limited Taiwan Marketing, research and 100 ARM Finance UK Two Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 development of RISC-based ARM Finland Oy Finland Development of IoT technology 100 microprocessors and physical IP ARM France SAS France Marketing, research and 100 ARM Technologies Israel Limited Israel Development of IoT technology and 100 development of RISC-based system IP microprocessors and physical IP ARM Technologies Investments England and Wales Holding company 100 100 ARM Germany GmbH Germany Marketing of RISC-based 100 Limited microprocessor IP.
Marketing, ARM UK Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100 and research and development of Advanced RISC Machines Limited England and Wales Dormant 100 microcontroller tools Discretix KK Japan Dormant 100 ARM Germany d. o. o. Slovenia Marketing of RISC-based 100 microprocessor IP.
Marketing, Duolog Technologies Corp Ireland Dormant 100 and research and development of Geomerics Limited England and Wales Research and development of 100 microcontroller tools graphics IP ARM Holdings US, Inc US Holding company 100 Keil Software, Inc US Dormant 100 ARM Hungary KFT Hungary Development of system IP 100 Obsidian Software, Inc US Dormant 100 ARM Inc.
US Marketing, research and 100 Offspark BV Netherlands Dormant 100 development of RISC-based Sunrise Micro Devices, Inc US Dormant 100 microprocessors and physical IP The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM ARM Ireland Holdings Limited Ireland Holding company 100 Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% ARM Ireland Limited Ireland Development of system IP 100 owned within the Group..
ARM Ireland Research Limited Ireland Development of system IP 100 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 93 26 Subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures continued In 2015, the Group invested 1.6 million CNY 15.9 million in a joint venture, ARM Innovation Ecosystem Accelerator Co. Ltd AIEA a company incorporated in PR China, based in Beijing, representing a 49.9% Associate shareholding.
The collaboration creates an Internet of Things one-stop shop for startups and established OEMs, providing integrated hardware and software expertise as well as resources from the ARM During 2010, the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-for-profit engineering company created ecosystem.
This investment has been classified as a joint venture since the Group and its venture partner to foster innovation in the Linux community.
Linaro a company incorporated in England and Wales is a have joint control over the relevant activities of the business, including the appointment of directors and the company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders.
The Group controls only 25% of the board determination of the operations of the company.
and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary.
The Group has not recognised any associate profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit.
2015 2014 Investment in joint ventures m m Joint ventures At 1 January 3.0 6.5 In 2012 the Group invested 7.5 million $12.0 million in a joint venture, Trustonic Limited a company Investment 2.7 incorporated in England and Wales, based in Cambridge, UK, with a further investment during 2013 Share of results for the period 3.1 3.5 amounting to 3.7 million 4.4 million, maintaining a 40% shareholding.
The other two joint venture parties At 31 December 2.6 3.0 each owned 30% of the joint venture.
With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security enhanced services, the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate the wide deployment of secure, smart devices.
The Groups share of the results of the joint ventures and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: The joint venture was reorganised in May 2015 such that the shareholding of one party has been acquired Nonby the other two joint venture members.
The joint venture is now controlled and owned equally by ARM Current current Current Non-current Currency Loss for and one other party, both with 50% shareholdings as at 31 December 2015.
The reorganisation generated assets assets liabilities liabilities translation Income Expenses Tax the year Trustonic Limited m m m m m m m m m goodwill of 1.4 million.
The carrying value of the Groups investment is 1.0 million at 31 December 2015.
This investment has been classified as a joint venture since the Group and its venture partner have At 31 December 2015 3.1 3.6 5.1 2.0 3.6 6.8 0.1 3.1 joint control over the relevant activities of the business, including the appointment of directors and the At 31 December 2014 2.6 4.6 4.2 0.3 0.3 3.2 6.9 0.2 3.5 determination of the operations of the company.
NonCurrent current Current Non-current Currency Loss for assets assets liabilities liabilities translation Income Expenses Tax the year AIEA m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2015 1.6 At 31 December 2014 The Groups share of joint venture capital commitments amount was nil at 31 December 2015 2014:0.2 million.
94 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Company balance sheet Company cash flow statement UK GAAP UK GAAP 2015 2014 2015 2014 At 31 December Note m m For the year ended 31 December Note m m Profit before tax 500.2 0.1 Fixed assets Changes in working capital Investments 4 587.4 697.1 Debtors 324.3 1.0 Current assets Other liabilities 13.9 145.7 Debtors 5 324.8 0.5 Cash generated by operations before tax 189.8 146.6 Cash at bank and in hand 0.3 1.1 Net cash inflow from operating activities 189.8 146.6 325.1 1.6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 0.7 167.0 Financing activities Net current assets liabilities 324.4 165.4 Proceeds received on issuance of shares 9.4 6.8 Total assets less current liabilities 911.8 531.7 Purchase of own shares 92.2 66.9 Net assets 911.8 531.7 Dividends paid to shareholders 107.8 86.1 Capital and reserves Net cash used in financing activities 190.6 146.2 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 0.8 0.4 Called-up share capital 7 0.7 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1.1 0.7 Share premium account 8 27.2 24.9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 0.3 1.1 Share option reserve 8 61.4 61.4 Profit and loss account 8 822.5 444.7 Total shareholders funds 911.8 531.7 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 94 to 100 were approved by the Board of directors on 17 February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: Simon Segars, Chris Kennedy, Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 95 Company statement of changes in shareholders equity UK GAAP Attributable to the owners of the Company Share Share Total Share premium option Profit and loss shareholders capital account reserve account funds For the year ended 31 December m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2014 0.7 18.1 61.4 529.3 609.5 Loss for the financial year 0.1 0.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.1 0.1 Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards 6.8 6.8 Dividends 86.1 86.1 Purchase of own shares 66.9 66.9 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 68.5 68.5 6.8 84.5 77.7 Balance at 31 December 2014 0.7 24.9 61.4 444.7 531.7 Profit for the financial year 500.2 500.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 500.2 500.2 Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards note 8 2.3 2.3 Proceeds on sale of own shares 7.1 7.1 Dividends paid note 3 107.8 107.8 Purchase of own shares note 8 92.2 92.2 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 70.5 70.5 2.3 377.8 380.1 Balance at 31 December 2015 0.7 27.2 61.4 822.5 911.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
96 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The individual financial statements have been prepared in compliance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the Companies Act 2006. creditors and debtors, and cash.
Due to the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value.
Intercompany debtors and intercompany creditors are The Companys functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
In accordance with FRS 102, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model The Company has adopted FRS 102 in these financial statements.
This is the first year that the Company has or, where appropriate, a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equitypresented its results under FRS 102.
The last financial statements under UK GAAP were for the year ended settled share-based payments is expensed in the accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis 31 December 2014.
There is no impact on these financial statements as a result of the transition to FRS 102 over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
other than the presentation of a cash flow statement and limited additional disclosures.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group.
Under FRS 102, a company which is a member of a group that prepares publicly available consolidated The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of financial statements, which give a true and fair view, is able to apply certain financial statement disclosure savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the exemptions.
The Company intends to apply these exemptions to the Company financial statements of ARM announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the Holdings plc from the year ending 31 December 2016.
Shareholders wishing to object to the use of these savings have been completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees disclosure exemptions should notify the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
in the UK, US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is six months, Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the historical cost convention.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 102 requires the use of certain critical The Company does not have any employees and as such all share-based payments have been recorded as accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the capital contributions to all subsidiaries.
The Company recharges the relevant amount of the share-based Companys accounting policies.
There are no areas involving a significant degree of judgement or critical payments to its UK and US subsidiaries.
Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying estimates that are significant to these financial statements.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost.
Where an acquisition Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct satisfies the provisions of section 612 of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated issue costs.
at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other consideration.
Treasury shares The Company has a share buyback programme under which the Company is able to purchase Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at its own shares and hold them as treasury shares.
These shares will be used to satisfy employee share awards.
actual rates of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated In accordance with FRS 102, the Company recognises these shares at cost as a deduction in arriving at in foreign currencies have been translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in operating profit.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 97 1 Principal accounting policies continued 4 Investments Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was 587.4 million at Interim dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not Inc. now ARM Inc., and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company reversed at the balance sheet date.
balance sheet at that time.
Investments in Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing subsidiary difference is expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively undertakings m enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.
Cost and net book value 2 Profit loss for the financial year At 1 January 2015 697.1 As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent Companys profit and loss account Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 70.5 has not been included in these financial statements.
The parent Companys profit after taxation, including Recharge to subsidiaries of share-based payments 180.2 dividends receivable and before dividends payable was 500.2 million 2014: loss of 0.1 million.
At 31 December 2015 587.4 The Company has no employees: all three executive directors as at 31 December 2015 have contracts of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The emoluments of two of these directors Where options and awards over the Companys shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the directors is paid by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclosed in undertakings, the fair value of employee services performed equal to the share-based payments has the Directors Remuneration Report within this Annual Report.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the been recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company recharges the relevant amount of the share-based consolidated financial statements on page74.
payments to ARM Limited and ARM Inc. Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value of its investments.
The recharge to subsidiaries of share-based payments is in excess of the capital 3 Dividends paid and proposed contributions arising from share-based payments in the current year due to a one-off cumulative recharge 2015 2014 ofa number of years of share option charge to ARM Limited.
m m Final dividend paid of 4.5 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2014 The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
2014: 3.60 pence in respect of 2013 63.5 50.7 Interim dividend paid of 3.15 pence 2014: 2.52 pence per ordinary share 44.3 35.4 107.8 86.1 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 of 5.63 pence per share which will absorb an estimated 79 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 22 April 2016, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
98 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 4 Investments continued 6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Interests in Group undertakings 2015 2014 m m Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Amounts owed to Group undertakings 166.4 Proportion of Accruals 0.7 0.6 Country Description nominal value 0.7 167.0 Name of undertaking of incorporation of shares held of issued shares held ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares less than 0.01% 7 Called-up share capital ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares 100% 2015 2014 ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100% m m ARM Technology Investments Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares 100% Authorised The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2014: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
Allotted, called-up and fully paid 1,412,436,842 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2014: 1,412,160,836 0.7 0.7 The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP.
The remaining shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date 2015 2014 by ARM Finance UK Limited AFL and ARM Finance UK Three Limited AFL3 with AFL3 itself being an Number of Number of shares m Value m shares m Value m indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL.
The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate Issued and fully paid holding companies.
The principal activity of ARM IP Limited is to act as a holding company for some of the Groups patents.
The principal activity of ARM Technology Investments Limited is to act as a holding company At 1 January 1,412.2 0.7 1,400.3 0.7 for some of the Groups investments.
The full list of Group undertakings is included in Note 26 to the Allotted under employee incentive schemes 0.2 11.9 consolidated financial statements.
At 31 December 1,412.4 0.7 1,412.2 0.7 5 Debtors There is a single class of ordinary shares.
There are no restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the 2015 2014 repayment of capital.
m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 323.5 276,006 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of 2.3 million Prepayments and accrued income 1.0 0.1 2014:11,897,032 ordinary shares for cash consideration of 6.8 million as a result of the exercise of share Deferred tax assets 0.3 0.4 options at various times during the year.
324.8 0.5 A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 99 7 Called-up share capital continued Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions Share options and awards other than France vest 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
31December 2015: Range of Weighted average Additionally, the Company operates a DAB Plan.
Under the DAB Plan, which is for directors and selected exercise prices exercise price Latest date senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus Year of grant Number of options of exercise into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award SAYE 2011 30,125 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017 will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
This scheme 2012 90,703 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018 was replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus.
For details of the new 2013 179,603 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019 scheme, see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29.
The Company also operates the LTIP, also 2014 591,688 7.344 7.344 31 January 2020 for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the 2015 315,190 9.344 9.344 31 January 2021 Companys TSR performance and EPS performance over the three-year performance period.
Grants were made for the last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it was replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants Total options 1,207,309 3.9616-9.344 7.632 onwards.
Number Year of grant of share awards Latest vest date The Company also offers SAYE schemes for UK employees and executive directors of the Group.
The period of RSU 2012 721,946 12 November 2016 savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the 2013 3,773,782 12 November 2017 announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the 2014 4,119,793 12 November 2018 savings have been completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in 2015 6,937,643 12 November 2019 the US, India, Asia Pac countries and certain European countries, namely the ESPP.
The number of options 15,553,164 granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is six months, with the LTIP 2013 520,901 8 February 2016 option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
2014 1,210,409 13 February 2017 2015 1,244,069 8 February 2018 The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees and directors.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price 2,975,379 equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant.
These schemes are the UK Inland DAB 2013 280,942 8 February 2016 Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Unapproved Scheme 2014 405,129 8 February 2017 the Unapproved Scheme, the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the 686,071 acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
Share options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company Total awards 19,214,614 reserves the right to award options to employees going forward.
Shares relating to these schemes have all Total options and awards 20,421,923 vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2014 or 2015.
All shares issued under these schemes have either lapsed or been exercised as at 31 December 2015.
For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances, and related items, please refer to note 21 in the consolidated financial statements.
100 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 8 Reserves 9 Capital commitments Share premium Share option Profit and loss The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 and 2014. account reserve account m m m 10 Financial commitments and contingencies At 1 January 2015 24.9 61.4 444.7 At 31 December 2015 and 2014, the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating Purchase of treasury shares 92.2 leases and no contingencies.
Proceeds on sales of own shares 7.1 Premium on issue of shares on exercise of share options 2.3 11 Related party transactions Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 70.5 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under Profit attributable to shareholders 500.2 FRS 102, where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
Equity dividends payable 107.8 At 31 December 2015 27.2 61.4 822.5 12 Post-balance sheet events After the year-end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 5.63 pence per The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2016 to shareholders on the Components Inc. in 2004. register on 22 April 2016.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable.
Within the profit and loss reserve are credits in respect of FRS 102 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company also considers these credits as non-distributable.
At 31 December 2015, approximately 660 million of the profit and loss reserve is deemed distributable 2014: 179 million.
During 2015, the Company purchased a total of 9.0 million 2014: 7.9 million shares from the market at a cost of 92.2 million 2014: 66.9 million.
At 31 December 2015, 7,231,108 shares are still held by the Company.
Offset within the profit and loss reserve, therefore, is an amount of 72.0 million 2014: 66.9 million representing the cost of own shares held.
These shares are expected to be used for the benefit of the Groups employees and directors to satisfy share options, restricted stock units RSUs and conditional share awards in future periods.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and will take into account prevailing market conditions, the shortto medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee sharebased remuneration going forward.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 101 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc Report on the Company financial statements ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Our opinion Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required toreport to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: In our opinion, ARM Holdings plcs Company financial statements the financial statements : materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2015: apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting acquired in the course of performing our audit: or Practice: and otherwise misleading.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, comprise: Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the Company balance sheet as at 31 December 2015: the Company cash flow statement for the year then ended: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or the Company statement of changes in shareholders equity for the year then ended: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other not been received from branches not visited by us: or explanatory information.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is Directors remuneration report Companies Act 2006 opinion applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other required reporting Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Consistency of other information Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures Companies Act 2006 opinion of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report arising from In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year this responsibility.
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
102 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Independent auditors report to the members of ARM Holdings plc continued Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other matter Our responsibilities and those of the directors We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2015.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on pages 48 to 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor fair view.
for and on behalf of  LLP Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
London 17 February 2016 This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, ingiving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes anassessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 103 Glossary Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
Original Equipment An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones.
Manufacturer OEM For example Apple, HTC and LG.
ARM7 9 11 ARM7 processor was one of ARMs first commercial products.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation of an SoC design.
LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one big Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
that delivers high-performance when needed with the other LITTLE Processor Optimisation Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement running most of the time, enabling long battery-life.
Pack POP a processor on a specific foundrys manufacturing process.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology.
Cortex ARMs latest family of processors.
The royalty is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is reported as royalty revenue.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
System-on-Chip SoC An SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip.
Fabless A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips.
These chips semiconductor company are typically manufactured by a foundry.
For example MediaTek, Marvell and Qualcomm.
Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufactures computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor companies.
Intellectual Property IP ARM designs technology for use in computer chips.
The general term for the products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
Internet of Things IoT An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet either directly or indirectly via a smartphone.
From pedometers to thermostats to street lights.
They pay an upfront fee, which is reported as licence revenue.
LTE Long Term Evolution or 4G is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones.
Mali ARMs family of 3D graphics processors.
Microcontroller MCU A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been or can be used in many applications.
104 ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Group directory ARM Norway AS ARM Ireland Limited 2 Venture Suite 470 ARM Holdings plc 4th Floor ARM France SAS Olav Tryggvassons gt.
39-41 2nd Floor, Lyrr Building phase 3 Irvine, CA 92618 110 Fulbourn Road York House 12 Avenue des Prs BL 204 Montigny le 7011 Trondheim Mervue Industrial Estate United States Cambridge CB1 9NJ Manchester Bretonneux Norway Galway, Ireland Tel: 1 408 576 1500 United Kingdom Cheshire M2 3BB 78059 Saint Quentin en Tel: 47 7318 7500 Tel: 353 91 337 917 Fax: 1 949 623 8305 Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Tel: 44 0 161 234 9420 Yvelines, Cedex Fax: 47 7351 3181 Fax: 44 0 1223 400410 CPC1, Capital Park France ARM Technologies Israel 4965 Preston Park Blvd Cambridge Road Tel: 33 1 39 30 47 89 ARM Sweden AB Grand Netter Industrial Zone Suite 650 ARM Limited Fulbourn Fax: 33 1 39 30 47 88 Emdalavgen 6 Beit Intergma Plano, TX 75093 Liberty House Cambridgeshire CB21 5XE SE-223 69 Lund Ha Alon St United States Moorbridge Road Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 25 Alle Pierre Ziller Sweden Kfar Netter 40593 Tel: 1 972 312 1107 Maidenhead Fax: 44 0 1223 400410 Le Paros Tel: 46 46 31 31 00 Fax: 1 972 312 1159 Berkshire SL6 8LT BP 70124 ARM Inc. United Kingdom Building 100-200, Rustat House F-06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex ARM Finland Oy 150 Rose Orchard Way 5375 Mira Sorrento Place Tel: 44 0 1628 427700 Clifton Road France Konekuja 2 San Jose, CA 95134-1358 Suite 540 Fax: 44 0 1628 427701 Cambridge CB1 7EG Tel: 33 4 97 23 51 00 Fl-90620 Oulu United States San Diego, CA 92121 Rockingham Court Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Fax: 33 4 97 23 51 99 Finland Tel: 1 408 576 1500 United States 152 Rockingham Street Fax: 44 0 1223 400410 Tel: 358 10 387 8680 Fax: 1 408 576 1501 Tel: 1 858 453 1900 Sheffield S1 4EB Miniparc Polytec United Kingdom City House 60 Rue des Berges ARM Belgium Encino Trace 2320 130th Avenue NE Tel: 44 0 114 282 8000 126-130 Hills Road F-38000 Grenoble Services BVBA 5707 Southwest Pkwy Suite 220 Fax: 44 0 114 282 8001 Cambridge CB2 1RE France Mechelsesteenweg 277 Building 1, Suite 100 Bellevue, WA 98005 Tel: 33 4 56 38 47 00 1800 Vilvoorde Austin, TX 78735 United States Blackburn Design Centre Geomerics Limited Fax: 33 4 56 38 47 01 Belgium United States Tel: 1 408 576 1500 Belthorn House 110 Fulbourn Road Tel: 32 2 3045598 Tel: 1 512 327 9249 Walker Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ ARM Germany GmbH Fax: 1 512 314 1078 350 Fairway Drive Blackburn BB1 2QE United Kingdom Bretonischer Ring 16 ARM Hungary Kft Suite 200 United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 D-85630 Grasbrunn Budapest 125 Nagog Park Deerfield Beach, FL 33441 Tel: 44 0 1254 893900 Germany Karolyi u.
Acton, MA 01720 United States Fax: 44 0 1254 893901 Tel: 49 89 456 040-0 1053 Hungary United States Tel: 1 561 451 4100 Fax: 49 89 456 040-19 Tel: 36 1 327 5626 Tel: 1 978 264 7300 Fax: 1 561 826 7599 Fax: 36 1 327 5699 Fax: 1 978 264 9990 Obrtna Cesta 18 145 South 79th Street SL-8310 Suite 48, Sentjernej Chandler, AZ 85226 Slovenia United States ARM Governance and Financial Report 2015 Governance Financial Report Glossary and Group directory 105 Key shareholder information Room 3501, Tower 3, Kerry Plaza ARM KK Unit no: F2 II, 2nd Floor ARM Holdings plc is the Shareholder Helpline No.
1-1, 4th Central Road Shinyokohama Square Bldg.
Towers, Plot no: IA I parent Company of the Group 0871 384 2139 Futian District 2-3-12 Shin-Yokohama Sector 16A Company Number: 2548782 Shenzhen 518006 Depositary Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi Film City, Noida 201301 Incorporated in England & Wales PR China The Bank of New York Mellon Kanagawa 222-0033 Uttar Pradesh, India Domiciled in the UK Tel: 86 755 3290 0600 101 Barclays Street Japan Tel.
91 120 3870100 Public company limited by shares Fax: 86 755 3290 0610 New York Tel: 81 45 477 5260 Fax 91 120 3870299 New York 10286 Fax: 81 45 477 5261 Secretary and registered office ARM Electronic Technology ARM Taiwan Limited United States Philip Davis Shanghai Co. Ltd 8F, No.
36, Ruihu Street ARM Korea Limited 110 Fulbourn Road 35F, Building B, Nei-Hu District Principal Legal advisers 7th Floor Kyungdong Building Cambridge CB1 9NJ New CHJ International Taipei City UK Law 4-4 Sunae-dong United Kingdom Business Centre 11494 Slaughter and May Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si No.
C Independent auditors One Bunhill Row Gyeonggi-do 463-020 Xuhui District Tel: 886 2 8752 1700  LLP London EC1Y 8YY South Korea Shanghai 200233 Fax: 886 2 2627 1682 1 Embankment Place United Kingdom Tel: 82 31 780 0200 PR China London WC2N 6RH Fax: 82 31 780 0201 Tel: 86 21 6154 9000 4F, No.
5, Gorgye E United Kingdom US Law ARM Embedded Fax: 86 21 6154 9100 7th Road East Dist.
Davis Polk & Wardwell Technologies Pvt.
Limited Hsinchu City 300 Stockbrokers 99 Gresham Street Bagmane World Technology Room 602, Ideal Plaza 30078 UBS Limited London EC2V 7NG Center SEZ 58 West Road Taiwan R. O. C. 2 Finsbury Avenue United Kingdom Citrine Block, 5th and 6th Floor North 4th Ring Road Tel: 886 3 565 7100 London EC2M 2PP Marathahalli Outer Ring Road Haidian District Fax: 886 3 567 7128 United Kingdom For more shareholder information Mahadevapura Beijing 100080 please contact Ian Thornton at Bangalore 560048 PR China Goldman Sachs investor.
com Tel: 91 80 4928 2000 Tel: 86 10 8217 2000 Peterborough Court Fax: 91 80 4112 7403 Fax: 86 10 8217 2010 133 Fleet Street Our website contains information for London EC4A 2BB shareholders, including regular strategic, United Kingdom business and financial updates.
com ir Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom 1 ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1223 400400 Facsimile 44 0 1223 400410 www.
