OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION g Energa Andina S. A.
As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 50.1% interest in Energa Andina, which is a joint venture with Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada for the evaluation and development of potential sources of geothermal and solar energy.
The balance due from Energa Andina S. A. to the Group at 31 December 2015 was nil 2014 less than $0.1 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group contributed $1.3 million to Energa Andina 2014 $7.7 million.
h Compaia Minera Zaldvar SpA The Groups 50% 2014 0% interest in Minera Zaldvar was acquired on 1 December 2015 see Note 17, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation.
Antofagasta is the operator of Zaldvar from 1 December 2015 onwards.
The balance due from Zaldvar to Group companies at the end of the year was less than $0.1 million.
i Directors and other key management personnel Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests are given in theRemuneration Report on page 96.
Information relating to the remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is givenin Note 8. j Inversiones Hornitos S. A.
As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $140.5 million year ended 31 December 2014 $175.3 million to Inversiones Hornitos in relation to the energy supply contract at Centinela.
During 2015, the Group has received dividends from Inversiones Hornitos S. A. for $12.1 million 2014 $20.0 million.
k Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A.
As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A. El Arrayn, which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $42.0 million year ended 31 December 2014 $12.0 million to El Arrayn in relation to the energy supply contract at Los Pelambres.
During 2015, the Group has contributed nil to El Arrayn 2014 $2.6 million.
l Alto Maipo SpA As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA Alto Maipo, which is accounted for as an associate.
During 2014, the Group made capital contributions for $42.8 million to Alto Maipo 2014 $nil.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at 31 December 2015 was $229.7 2014 $152.4 million, representing loan financing with an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus 4.25%.
37 Litigation and contingent liabilities Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries are subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
No provision has been made in the financial statements and none of these claims are currently expected to result in any material loss to the Group.
Details of the principal claims in existence either during, or at the end of, the period and the current status of these claims are set out below: Los Pelambres Mauro tailings dam As previously announced, during 2008 Los Pelambres entered into binding settlements in respect of litigation relating to the Mauro tailings dam.
Since then, there have been a series of civil claims filed by some members of the Caimanes community which is located near the Mauro tailings dam seeking to stop the operation of the dam.
Many of these claims have been rejected by the relevant courts.
Two of these claims are currently ongoing and Los Pelambres is continuing to take necessary steps to protect its position.
In the first claim, the plaintiffs have argued that the tailings dam affects their alleged water rights and the environment.
This allegation is based on assertions that the dam interferes with the flow and quality of the water in the Pupo stream, a stream that passes through the valley in which the dam is built down to the Caimanes community.
This claim was rejected by the trial Court of Los Vilos in a judgement issued in November 2012, which was then affirmed by the Court of Appeals of La Serena in August 2013.
In October 2014, the Supreme Court, by a 32 majority decision, upheld the appeal and ordered Los Pelambres to submit back to the trial Court of Los Vilos, within one month, an implementation plan for works that would ensure that the operation of the dam does not affect the normal flow and quality of the waters of the Pupo stream.
Los Pelambres believes that the requirements of this order have already been met as Los Pelambres has undertaken significant works to ensure that the flow of the Pupo stream is not altered and that the operation of the tailings dam does not affect the quantity or quality of these waters something that has been confirmed by accredited independent assessors and other public services in Chile and confirmed by the Supreme Court in a parallel decision.
Nevertheless, on 21 November 2014, Los Pelambres submitted this plan to the trial Court of Los Vilos.
On 6 March 2015, that Court found that the plan submitted by Los Pelambres was not sufficient to address the requirements of the Supreme Court order, and as a consequence Los Pelambres must demolish part, or all, of the tailings dam wall.
Los Pelambres appealed the Courts decision and in December 2015 the Court of Appeals ordered that, before it issues its decision, a Court appointed engineer must review the plan submitted by Los Pelambres and issue a report explaining whether or not the proposed works are enough to ensure that the flow of the Pupo stream to the Caimanes community is not altered by the operation of the tailings dam and, if the proposed works are not deemed to be sufficient to achieve this purpose, what additional or other works must be performed by Los Pelambres to achieve this goal.
That report is currently pending.
