Notes to the financial statements 37 Litigation and contingent liabilities continued In the second claim, the plaintiffs are seeking demolition of the dam wall on the basis of the risk that its collapse would pose to the community.
The Civil Court in Los Vilos issued a decision in May 2014 denying the demolition request but ordering Minera Los Pelambres to undertake some additional measures to ensure protection of the community, in the event of a major earthquake or similar natural event.
These measures would need to be reviewed and agreed with the technically competent bodies responsible for supervision of the dam.
The decision of the Court of Los Vilos was appealed by both the plaintiffs and Los Pelambres to the Court of Appeal of La Serena.
In April 2015, the Court of Appeal of La Serena upheld Los Pelambress appeal, overturning the decision of the Court of Los Vilos and rejecting completely the plaintiffs claim.
The decision of the Court of Appeal has been appealed by the plaintiffs to the Supreme Court.
The Supreme Court is expected to hear oral arguments and issue a final decision within the next few months.
Los Pelambres Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump In 2004, Los Pelambres received all of the required authorisations from the Chilean government to deposit a waste-rock dump Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump in its current location which, according to the then official Chilean maps 1996, was located within Chile.
In 2007, Chile modified the official maps in this area without making the changes public.
Los Pelambres stopped using the relevant area of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump in 2011.
In February 2012, a binational border commission, established to clarify the exact position of the Chile Argentina border, determined accurately the location of the border in the area of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump, which showed that part of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump was located in Argentina.
In May 2014, Xstrata Pachn S. A. Xstrata Pachn, a subsidiary of Glencore plc and the holder of the mining properties on the Argentinian side of the border, filed a claim against Los Pelambres before the Federal Court of San Juan, Argentina, alleging that Los Pelambres had unlawfully deposited waste-rock on its property.
Xstrata Pachn has also filed a criminal complaint before a different Federal Court of San Juan alleging that Los Pelambres had violated several Argentinian laws relating to the misappropriation of land, unlawful appropriation of water bodies and that peoples health was in jeopardy from the alleged contamination that the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump might generate.
In both cases, Los Pelambres submitted preliminary objections to the Argentinian courts.
These objections are still pending in relation to the civil claim.
Each party may appeal any decision on these preliminary objections to higher courts.
In the criminal proceeding the first instance Court dismissed the preliminary objections made by Los Pelambres but this decision has been appealed.
The Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump is a pile of inert waste-rock and any potential future environmental impact could be easily prevented with theimplementation of an environmental closure plan, which is the accepted and recommended practice.
Los Pelambres has offered to implement a closure plan in line with the requirements of the Provincial Authorities of San Juan, but Xstrata Pachn has rejected this proposal outright, even though this solution would address all of the alleged environmental concerns.
Los Pelambres will exercise all available legal avenues to defend its position and will continue to seek to reach an understanding with the relevant authorities in Argentina to allow the environmental closure of the Cerro Amarillo Waste Dump.
38 Ultimate Parent Company The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in Liechtenstein.
Information relating to the interest  and the E. Abaroa Foundation aregiven in theDirectors report.
178 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
