OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is 2 Principal accounting policies recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference a Accounting convention between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the These financial statements have been prepared under the historical previouscarrying amount of the assets including goodwill, cost convention as modified by the use of fair values to measure and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
certain financial instruments, principally provisionally priced sales as When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts explained in Note 2 f and financial derivative contracts as explained or fairvalues and the related cumulative gain or loss has been inNote 2 x. recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in b Basis of consolidation equity, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial had directly disposed of the relevant assets ie reclassified to profit statements ofAntofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings as specified by collectively theGroup.
The fair value of any investment retained in the i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as has control, which is the case when the Group is exposed to, the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment over the entity.
The consolidated financial statements include all inanassociate or a joint venture.
the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note 2 g Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company relating to business combinations and goodwill.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, thenet assets and net earnings attributable to non-controlling c Investments in associates shareholders are presented as Non-controlling interests in the An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to consolidated balance sheet and consolidated income statement.
exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests the power toparticipate in the financial and operating policy decisions and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys of that entity.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are net assets in the event of liquidation, may be initially measured incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the either at fair value or at thenon-controlling interests proportionate equity method of accounting.
This requires recording the investment share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable initially at cost to the Group and then, in subsequent periods, adjusting net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an the carrying amount of the investment to reflect the Groups share of  basis.
Other types of non-controlling the associates results less any impairment and any other changes to interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the the associates net assets such as dividends.
When the Group loses basis specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent toacquisition, the control of a former subsidiary but retains an investment in associate carrying amount ofnon-controlling interests is the amount of those in that entity, the initial carrying value of the investment in associate interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests is recorded at its fair value at that point.
When the Groups share of shareof subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in that associate, incomeisattributed to non-controlling interests even if this results the Group discontinues recognising its share of further losses.
inthe non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent that the Group hasincurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that onbehalf oftheassociate.
do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted toreflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid orreceived is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners ofthe Company.
Antofagasta plc 127 Notes to the financial statements f Revenue recognition 2 Principal accounting policies continued Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to d Joint arrangements third parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties of consideration received or receivable, and excludes any applicable have joint control.
Joint arrangements are accounted depending on sales tax.
the nature of the arrangement.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of i Joint ventures are accounted for using equity method in ownership have passed.
This is generally when title and any accordance with IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint insurance risk has passed to the customer, and the goods have Ventures as described in Note 2 c. beendelivered to a contractually agreed location or when any services have been provided.
ii Joint operations are accounted for recognising directly the assets, obligations, revenues and expenses of the joint operator Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts in the joint arrangement.
The assets, liabilities, revenues and with anadjustment for provisional pricing at each reporting date, as expenses are accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
For copper and molybdenum concentrates, which are sold to smelters and roasting plants for further processing, the When a Group entity transacts with its joint arrangements, profits and invoiced amount isthe market value of the metal payable by the losses resulting from the transactions with the joint arrangements are customer, net of deductions fortolling charges.
Revenue includes recognised in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to amounts from the sale of by-products.
the extent of interests in the joint arrangements that are not related tothe Group.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing e Currency translation of sales atthe time of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined the monthly average market molybdenum price for specified future as thecurrency of the primary economic environment in which periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months after delivery it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains an embedded currency of the entity aretranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the derivative which is required to be separated from thehost contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated The host contract is the sale of metals contained in the concentrate incurrencies other than the functional currency are retranslated or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges at year end exchange rates.
Gains and losses on retranslation are deducted, and the embedded derivative is the forward contract for included in net profit or loss for the period within other finance items.
which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted.
At each reporting The presentational currency of the Group and the functional date, the provisionally priced metal sales together with any related currency of the Company is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income tolling charges are marked-to-market, with adjustments both gains statement items for entities with a functional currency other than the and losses being recorded in revenue in the consolidated income US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange.
statement and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
Forward prices Balance sheet items are translated at period-end exchange rates.
at the period end are used for copper concentrate and cathode Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of such entities sales, while period-end average prices are used for molybdenum are taken to equity and recorded in a separate currency translation concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the date to IFRS are recognised as income or as expenses in the income principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, statement in the period in which an operation is disposed of.
whichis the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances receiptsthrough the expected life of the financial asset to that between Group entities are taken to reserves where that balance assetsnet carrying amount.
is, in substance, part of the net investment in a foreign operation, Dividend income from available-for-sale investments and associates ie where settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the isrecognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has foreseeable future.
Allother exchange gains and losses on Group beenestablished.
balances are dealt with in theincome statement.
Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at theperiod-end rate.
128 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N g Business combinations and goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of thesum of the consideration transferred, the amount Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of method.
The consideration transferred in a business combination the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the over the next identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
acquisition-date fair values of theassets transferred by the Group, Any goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is separately disclosed, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree while any goodwill on the acquisition ofassociates is included and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control within investments in equity accounted entities.
Internally generated of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired during the year goodwill is not recognised.
Where the fair values of theidentifiable are brought into the consolidated financial statements fromthe net assets acquired exceed the sum of the consideration transferred, effective date of acquisition.
The identifiable assets, liabilities the surplus is credited to the profit or loss in the period of acquisition andcontingent liabilities of a business which can be measured reliably as a bargain purchase gain.
arerecorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Group acquires an interest in a project company in exchange for funding exploration and evaluation expenditure up to a specified When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business level of expenditure or a specified stage in the life of the project.
combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent Funding is usually conditional onthe achievement of key milestones consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is by the partner.
Typically there is no consideration transferred or measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the funding liability on the effective date of acquisition of the interest in consideration transferred in abusiness combination.
Changes in the the project company and no goodwill is recognised on this type of fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement business combination.
period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during consolidated financial statements for the period up to the effective the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the date ofdisposal.
Gains or losses on disposal are calculated as the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the difference between the sales proceeds net of expenses and the acquisition date.
net assets attributable to the interest which has been sold.
Where a disposal represents a separate major line of business or geographical The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the area of operations, the net results attributable to the disposed entity contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement are shown separately in the income statement.
period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is h Exploration and evaluation expenditure not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent Exploration and evaluation costs, other than those incurred in settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration acquiring exploration licences, are expensed in the year in which that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent they are incurred.
When a mining project is considered to be reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, orIAS 37 Provisions, commercially viable normally when the project has completed a Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, asappropriate.
pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility study has been When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups approved all further directly attributable pre-production expenditure previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair iscapitalised.
Capitalisation of pre-production expenditure ceases value at the acquisition date ie the date when the Group obtains when commercial levels of production are achieved.
control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit Costs incurred in acquiring exploration licences are accounted for or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to as mining properties included in property, plant and equipment in the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other accordance with the policy in Note 2 k and are stated atcost less comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such accumulated amortisation.
treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete bythe end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
Antofagasta plc 129 Notes to the financial statements k Property, plant and equipment 2 Principal accounting policies continued The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs i Stripping costs ofacquiring and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are Pre-stripping and operational stripping costs are incurred in the course capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they ofthe development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
areincurred, when a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally when the project has completed a pre-feasibility Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal of waste material as part of study, and the start of a feasibility study has been approved.
The cost the initial development of an open-pit, in order to allow access to the of property, plant and equipment comprises the purchase price and ore body.
These costs are capitalised within mining properties within any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and property, plant and equipment.
The capitalised costs are depreciated condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner once production commences on a unit of production basis, intended.
Once a project has been established as commercially inproportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year compared viable, related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes with total proven and probable reserves for that pit at the beginning costs incurred in preparing the site for mining operations, including ofthe year.
Capitalisation ceases when the mine is capable Operational stripping costs relate to the costs of extracting waste of commercial production, with the exception of development costs material as part of the ongoing mining process.
The ongoing which give rise to a future benefit.
mining and development of the Groups open-pit mines is generally Interest on borrowings related to construction or development of performed via a succession of individual phases.
The costs of projects is capitalised, until such time as the assets are substantially extracting material from an open-pit mine are generally allocated ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining between ore and waste stripping in proportion to the tonnes of properties, is when they are capable of commercial production.
The waste stripping costs are generally absorbed into inventory and expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
l Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and Where the stripping costs relate to a significant stripping campaign amortisation of intangible assets which is expected to provide improved access to an identifiable Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, component of the ore body typically an individual phase within the or over theremaining life of the operation if shorter, to residual overall mine plan, the costs of removing waste in order to improve value.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are access to that part of the ore body will be capitalised within mining depreciated as follows: properties within property, plant and equipment.
The capitalised costs will then be amortised on a unit of production basis, in proportion to i Land freehold land is not depreciated unless the value of the volume of ore extracted compared with the total ore contained the land is considered to relate directly to a particular mining inthe component of the pit to which the stripping campaign relates.
operation, in which case the land is depreciated on a straightline basis over the expected mine life.
Any leasehold land is j Intangible assets depreciated on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated financing costs, are depreciated on a unit of production impairment losses.
Intangible assets include the cost of acquiring basis, inproportion to thevolume of ore extracted in the year exploration licences.
Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line comparedwith total proven and probable reserves at the basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful life beginning of the year.
and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful to25 years.
lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at 20 years.
the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
vi Machinery, equipment and other assets are depreciated Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in onaunit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated ore material processed or straight-line basis over 5to20 years.
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basisas intangible assets thatare acquired separately.
vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available foruse.
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from use or disposal.
Gains or viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured shorter ofthe lease term andtheir useful life.
asthe difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if amount of the asset, are recognised in profit or loss when the asset appropriate, atleast annually, and changes to residual values and is derecognised.
useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
130 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F F FIIIN N NA A AN N NC C CIIIA A AL L L S S ST T TA A AT T TE E EM M MENTS ENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N m Impairment of property, plant and equipment Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, andintangibleassets excluding goodwill and net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be Property, plant and equipment and finite life intangible assets are incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Cost of finished goods reviewed for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying and work-in-progress is production cost and for raw materials and amount may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the consumables it is purchase price.
Production cost includes: recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Where the asset does not labour costs, raw material costs and other costs directly attributable generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the to the extraction and processing of ore: Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit depreciation of plant, equipment and mining properties directly to which the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an indefinite involved inthe production process: and useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is anindication that the asset may be impaired.
an appropriate portion of production overheads.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted and is available for further and value in use.
Fair value less costs of disposal reflects the net processing.
Costs directly attributable to the extraction of ore are amount the Group would receive from the sale of the asset in an generally allocated as part of production cost in proportion to the orderly transaction between market participants.
For mining assets tonnes of material extracted.
Operational stripping costs are generally this would generally be determined based on the present value of absorbed into inventory, and therefore expensed as that inventory the estimated future cash flows arising from the continued use, isprocessed and sold.
If ore will not be processed within 12 months further development or eventual disposal of the asset.
The estimates of the statement of financial position date, it is included within used in determining the present value of those cash flows are those non-current assets.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when that an independent market participant would consider appropriate.
anystockpiled ore will be processed, it is expensed as incurred.
Value in use reflects the present value of the future cash flows which p Taxation the Group would expect to derive from continued use of the asset in its current condition, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the year relating reflects current market assessments of the time value of money toboth current and deferred tax.
and the risks specific to the asset for which estimates of future Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may cashflows have not been adjusted.
differ from net profit as reported in the income statement because it If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit excludes items of income or expense that are taxable and deductible is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying in different years and also excludes items that are not taxable or amount is reduced to the recoverable amount.
The liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates charge is recognised in the income statement immediately.
foreach entity in the consolidated financial statements which have Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, but so Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying on temporary differences ie differences between the carrying value that would have been determined if no impairment had amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the previously been recognised.
A reversal is recognised in the income corresponding tax basis used inthe computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method n Investment property and is provided on all temporary differences with certain limited exceptions as follows: Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation and includes land held for a currently undetermined i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates future use.
The Group has elected to adopt the cost model in IAS 40 and joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to Investment Property.
Accordingly, investment property is measured control the remittance of profits and it is probable that there will initially at cost, which includes transaction costs for the acquisition of be no remittance ofpast profits earned in the foreseeable future: the property and, asdetailed in Note 2 l relating to property, plant and ii deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an equipment, is notdepreciated.
asset or liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit ortaxable profit and is not a business combination: nor is o Inventory deferred tax provided on subsequent changes in the carrying Inventory consists of raw materials and consumables, work-invalue of such assets and liabilities, for example where they are progress and finished goods.
Work-in-progress represents material depreciated: and that is in the process of being converted into finished goods.
The conversion process for mining operations depends on the nature iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
of the copper ore. For sulphide ores, processing includes milling and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is concentrating and results in the production of copper concentrate.
probable that they will be recovered through sufficient future taxable For oxide ores, processing includes leaching of stockpiles, solution profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each extraction and electrowinning and results in the production of copper balance sheet date.
Finished goods consist of copper concentrate containing gold and silver at Los Pelambres and Centinela and copper cathodes Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply at Centinela, Antucoya and Michilla.
Los Pelambres also produces in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, exceptwhen it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
Antofagasta plc 131 Notes to the financial statements the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
2 Principal accounting policies continued The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present q Provisions value of the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the u Cash and cash equivalents Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on can be made of the amount of the obligation.
call with banks, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties on demand.
Cash and cash equivalents normally have a maturity surrounding the obligation.
When a provision is measured using the period of 90 days or less.
cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect v Liquid investments ofthe time value of money is material.
Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments that donot meet the IAS 7 definition of cash and cash equivalents, When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle normally because even if readily accessible, the underlying aprovision are expected to be recovered from a third party, investments have an average maturity profile greater than 90 days areceivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that from the date first entered into.
These assets are designated as fair reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable value through profit or loss.
w Leases r Provisions for decommissioning and restorationcosts Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs statement account in equal annual amounts over the term of when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or the lease.
ongoing production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular formal review.
Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at inception of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site the minimum lease payments derived by discounting at the interest preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided rate implicit in the lease.
The interest element is charged within and capitalised atthe start of each project, as soon as the obligation financing costs so as toproduce a constant periodic rate of interest to incur such costs arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged on the remaining balance oftheliability.
against profits over the life of the mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation of the discount on the provision.
x Other financial instruments Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups discount is included as financing costs.
Changes in the measurement balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site provisions of the instrument.
preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current year.
i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures are initially measured at cost, The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an including transaction costs.
ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and charged against operating profits as extraction progresses.
Investments are classified as either held for trading or availableChanges in the measurement of a liability relating to site damage for-sale, and are normally measured at subsequent reporting created during production is charged against operating profit.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 26 b.
Investments in equity instruments s Share-based payments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are measured at the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value cost.
Securities are classified as held-for-trading when they are of the liability.
At the end of each reporting period until the liability acquired principally for the purpose of sale in the short term, and is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit profit or loss for the period.
Other investments are classified as or lossfor the year.
The Group currently does not have any equity available-for-sale, and gains and losses arising from changes in share-based payments to employees or third parties.
fair value are recognised directly in equity, within the Fair value reserve, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be t Post-employment benefits impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously The Group operates defined contribution schemes for a limited recognised in equity is included in profit or loss for the period.
For such schemes, the amount charged to Dividends on available-for-sale and held-for-trading equity theincome statement is the contributions paid or payable in the year.
investments are recognised in the income statement when theright to receive payment is established.
Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in not generally carry any interest and are normally stated at their most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service nominal value less any impairment.
Impairment losses on trade and based on final salary level.
Theseverance indemnity obligation receivables are recognised within an allowance account unless is treated as an unfunded defined benefit plan, and the calculation the Group considers that no recovery of the amount is possible, is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using in which case the carrying value of the asset is reduced directly.
132 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
