Independent Auditors Report to the members of AO World Plc continued Last year our report included a significant risk for Accounting for An overview of the scope of our audit costs associated with the Initial Public Offering IPO which is not Given the nature of the Groups corporate structure, where all included in our report this year as all costs have passed through the evidence relating to each component is compiled at the Groups Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the previous head office, the Senior Statutory Auditor led an audit covering 100% financial year.
We have also refined our inventory risk to be specific of the Groups trading components and accordingly audit coverage to the AV inventory as noted above.
represented 100% of the Groups total assets, revenue and loss before tax.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee discussed The Groups trading subsidiaries are AO Retail Limited, Expert on page 54.
Logistics Limited, AO Deutschland Limited and Elek Direct Limited.
Our audit work within all four entities was executed at levels of Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to than Group materiality.
express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the We engaged a local component audit team to complete the inventory risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these count procedures at AO Deutschland Limited and the location has individual matters.
been visited by the Group audit team during the audit.
Our application of materiality At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process.
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed In our opinion: or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and We determined materiality for the Group to be 603,000 2014: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors 392,000, which is 5% 2014: 5% of normalised pre-tax profit.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements Pre-tax loss has been normalised by adjusting for the start-up are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
investment and losses incurred in the European operations as described in note 8 and for the costs incurred in relation to the Matters on which we are required to report by exception Performance Share Plan PSP, which was specific to the IPO Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records in the previous financial year, as described in note 29.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: The losses incurred in the European operations are considered to be We have not received all the information and explanations we part of an investment and start-up phase therefore not representative require for our audit: or of the underlying pre-tax profit forecast in future periods.
The charge Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent in relation to the PSP relates specifically to an incentive plan to reward company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received the management team for their successful IPO and accordingly reflect from branches not visited by us: or a much greater value compared to the other on-going share-based The parent company financial statements are not in agreement payment schemes in the Group.
For these reasons, both items are with the accounting records and returns.
considered to be required to be adjusted to give a true reflection of materiality relevant to the underlying trade of the Group.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Directors remuneration Committee all audit differences in excess of 12,000 2014: 8,000, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
nothing to report arising from these matters.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 76
