Notes to the financial statements a Adoption of new accounting standards 1 Basis of preparation The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with became effective in the current reporting period: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those Annual improvements 20112013 Cycle improvements to parts ofthe Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting four IFRSs under IFRS.
Forthese purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS IFRIC 21 Levies Interpretations Committee IFRS IC that have been endorsed by The application of these standards and interpretations, effective for the European Union EU.
the first time in the current year, has had no significant impact on the The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern amounts reported in these financial statements.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in b Accounting standards issued but not yet effective assessing the Groups going concern status are set out within the At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Directors Report.
following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied Significant events during 2015 and 2014 in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: Construction of the Antucoya project was completed during 2015 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and the project is currently in its initial start-up phase during which IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts final commissioning activities are being performed to ensure that the operations assets are capable of operating in the manner IFRS 15Revenue from Contracts with Customers intended by management.
During this initial start-up period, all IFRS 16 Leases costs of the Antucoya operation, along with related revenues, arebeing capitalised.
IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans, Employee Contributions Amendments to IAS 19 On 1 December 2015, the Group completed the agreement with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick under which Antofagasta Annual improvements 20102012 Cycle improvements acquired a 50% interest in Compaia Minera Zaldvar SpA tosix IFRSs Zaldvar, and has accounted for its 50% interest in Zaldvar Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations asajoint venture from that date.
Amendments to IFRS 11 The Group completed the sale of its water division, Aguas fide Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Antofagasta S. A. to Empresas Publicas fide Medellin, on 2 June, 2015 Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 and the sale of its transport operation in Bolivia, Empresa Ferroviaria Andina FCA, to Kimarcus Group Corp on 28 August, 2015.
Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 In these financial statements the net results of the water division Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Amendments forthe five months to May 2015 and of the FCA for the eight months toIAS 27 to August 2015, are shown in the income statement on the line for Profit for the period from discontinued operations.
The comparative Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its results for the prior year have been restated in order to present the Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 comparative net result on the Profit for the period from discontinued Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception operations line.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 In January 2015, the Group completed its acquisition of Duluth Metals Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 Limited Duluth.
As a result of the acquisition, the Group now has a 100% interest in Twin Metals Minnesota Limited TwinMetals and Annual improvements 20122014 Cycle improvements to therefore it has been consolidated as a subsidiary of the Group from four IFRSs that date.
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses A reclassification between property, plant and equipment and Amendments to IAS 12 current inventories has been made in the prior period comparative Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 figures related to Ferrocarril Antofagasta Bolivia FCAB.
This has resulted in an increase in current inventories and a corresponding The Group is continuing to evaluate the impact of adopting these decrease in property, plant and equipment of $13.2 million as at newstandards and interpretations.
The Group is continuing to evaluate in detail the potential impact of During 2014, the Group merged Minera Esperanza and Minera IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts ElTesoro into a single entity Minera Centinela.
The production of with customers but does not currently expect these to have a material copper concentrate, which was previously within Minera Esperanza, impact.
In respect of IFRS 16 Leases the Group is not ableto estimate is now referred to as Centinela Concentrates, and the production of the impact of the new rules on the Groups financial statements.
copper cathodes, which was previously within Minera El Tesoro, is The Group will make more detailed assessments ofthe impact.
referred to as Centinela Cathodes.
126 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
