Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates At 31 December 2015 An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource Introduction for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates presented in grade and mineral content can be estimated with a reasonable this report comply with the requirements of the Australasian Code level of confidence.
It is based on exploration, sampling and for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources andOre testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from Reserves 2012 edition the JORC Code which has been used by the locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
Group as the minimum standard for the preparation and disclosure The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm ofthe information contained herein.
The definitions andcategories geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely enough ofOre Reserves and Mineral Resources are set out below.
The information on ore reserves and mineral resources was prepared A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource by or under the supervision ofCompetent Persons as defined in the for which tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade JORC Code.
The Competent Persons have sufficient experience and mineral content can be estimated with a high level ofconfidence.
relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under It is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and consideration and totheactivity which they are undertaking.
testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from The Competent Persons consent to the inclusion in thisreport of locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes.
the matters based on their information in the form and context in The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm geological and which itappears.
The Competent Person for Exploration Results grade continuity.
and Mineral Resources is Aquiles Gonzalez CP, Chile, Manager An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured of Mineral Resource Evaluation for Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and The Competent Person for Ore Reserves is Murray Canfield P. Eng.
allowances for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Ontario, Technical Manager of Mining for Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and The Groups operations and projects are subject to a comprehensive include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed programme of audits aimed atproviding assurance in respect mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, of ore reserves and mineral resources estimates.
The audits social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate areconducted by suitably qualified Competent Persons from at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
within a particular division, another division of the Company or from Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into independent consultants.
Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
The ore reserves and mineral resources estimates represent full A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an reserves and resources, with the Groups attributable share for Indicated, and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
each mine shown in the Attributable tonnage column.
The Groups It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which may economic interest in each mine is disclosed in the notes following the occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and estimates on pages 192and193.
The totals in the table may include studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and some small apparent differences as the specificindividual figures modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, have not been rounded.
marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Theseassessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could .
Definitions and categories of ore reserves andmineral resources A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of aMeasured Mineral Resource.
Itincludes diluting materials and A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material allowances for losses which may occur when the material is of intrinsic economic interest inoron the Earths crust in such mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects and include consideration ofand modification by realistically assumed foreventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are social and governmental factors.
These assessments demonstrate known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence atthe time ofreporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured categories.
An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated witha low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not verified geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
Mineral Resources have increased by 50 million tonnes Notes to ore reserves and mineral due to changes in economic assumption and changes to the resourcesestimates geo-metallurgical model.
The ore reserves mentioned in this report were determined considering specific cut-off grades for each mine and using a d Encuentro long-term copper price of $3.10 lb unchanged from 2014, $10.00 lb Encuentro is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to molybdenum $11.00 lb in 2014 and $1,300 oz gold unchanged from the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides 2014, unless otherwise noted.
These same values have been used is 0.15% copper.
for copper equivalent CuEq estimates, where appropriate.
For 2015, the mineral resource model has been updated by In order to ensure that the stated resources represent mineralisation refinement of the resource model without additional drill holes.
that has reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction The decrease of 106 million tonnes in Mineral Resources is mainly JORC Code the resources are enclosed within pit shells that were due to changes in economic assumptions.
optimised based on measured, indicated and inferred resources During 2015, after a feasibility study, 115.6 million tonnes of oxide and considering a copper price of $3.60 lb unchanged from 2014. mineral resource were converted to ore reserves.
Mineralisation estimated outside these pit shells is not included in the resource figures unless they can expect to be exploited by e Michilla underground methods.
During 2015, Michilla depleted 2.1 million tonnes and has initiated a Los Pelambres closure activities.
Los Pelambres is 60% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade f Polo Sur applied to the determination of ore reserves is 0.42% copper Polo Sur is 100% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied and for mineral resources is 0.35% copper.
For 2015, the mineral to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and resource model has been updated with 120 drill holes for a total of sulphides is 0.20% copper.
For 2015, the mineral resource 36,073 metres.
geological model has been updated with 17 drill holes for a total The decrease of 70.6 million tonnes in ore reserves is due principally of5,354 metres.
The increase of 208 million tonnes in resources is to depletion in the period and reflects the remaining capacity of the duemainly to improved continuity in the resource model, achieved existing tailing dams, limiting the amount of mineral resource that byre-modelling the previously separated two main ore bodies into canbe converted into ore reserves.
Mineral resources in the measured plus indicated categories g Penacho Blanco increased by 174 million tonnes while resources in the inferred Penacho Blanco is 51% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade category decreased by 294 million tonnes, reflecting increased applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides information from new drill holes improving the confidence in the andsulphides is 0.20% copper.
For 2015, the mineral resource geological model has been updated b Centinela Concentrates & Cathodes by refinement of resource model without addition drill holes.
Centinela is 70% owned by the Group and consists of Centinela The resource model decreased slightly 0.4 million tonnes due Concentrates and Centinela Cathodes operations.
The cut-off principally toeconomic assumption.
grade applied to the determination of ore reserves for Centinela Concentrates is 0.20% equivalent copper, with 0.15% copper used h Mirador as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade used for Mirador is 100% owned by the Group.
A portion of the Mirador the Centinela Cathodes pits is as follows: Tesoro Central and Tesoro Oxides is subject to an agreement between the Group and North-East deposits is 0.41% copper for ore reserves and 0.31% Centinela, whereby Centinela purchased the rights to mine the for mineral resources: the Mirador Oxides deposit is 0.30% copper oxide ore reserves within an identified area.
The ore reserves and for ore reserves and 0.15% for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade mineral resources for Mirador Oxides subject to the agreement applied to oxides contained in the Centinela Concentrates deposit with Centinela are included in the Centinela Cathodes section.
processed separately as Run-of-Mine leach, or ROM is 0.20% The resources not subject to the agreement are reported in this copper for ore reserves and 0.15% copper for mineral resources.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral For 2015 the mineral resource model has not been updated, Centinela resources for oxides is 0.15% copper and for sulphides is 0.20% ore reserves decreased by a net 61.7 million tonnes after depletion copper.
For 2015, the resource model has not been updated.
of 55 million tonnes, and the mineral resources by a net 129 million tonnes.
The decrease is mainly in Esperanza and Esperanza Sur due i Paleocanal to updates to the economic parameters in the period.
The Centinela Paleocanal deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining Cathodes ore reserves are made up of 83.3 million tonnes at 0.62% tenements shared in different proportions.
Under these constraints copper of heap-leach and 105.2 million tonnes at 0.29% copper of the Group owns 88.7% of Paleocanal.
The cut-off grade applied to ROM ore. the determination of mineral resources for oxides is 0.15% copper.
For 2015 the resource model has been updated with 71 drill holes c Antucoya for a total of 6,258 metres.
Paleocanal has been upgraded to Antucoya is 70% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied MineralResources in 2015. to the determination of ore reserves is 0.16% copper, with 0.15% copper used as a cut-off grade for mineral resources.
During 2015, Antucoya began the operations ramp up, with 12 million tonnes ore depletion.
Ore reserves have increased by 14 million tonnes mainly due to changes in the density 192 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION j Llano Llano deposit is covered by AMSA and Centinela mining tenements shared in different proportions.
Under these constraints the Group owns 71.1% of Llano.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for oxides is 0.15% copper.
For 2015, the resource model has been updated with 47 drill holes for a total of 7,514 metres.
Llano has been upgraded to Mineral Resources in 2015. k Los Volcanes Los Volcanes is 51% owned by the Group.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources for both oxides and sulphides is0.20% copper.
For 2015, the mineral resource model has been updated with two extensions of previous drill holes, and additional assaying carried out to complete legacy data, for a total of 1,985 metres.
The increase of 622 million tonnes in mineral resources is due principally to updated the resource model and updates to the economical parameters used in the resource pit shell.
l Twin Metals Minnesota LLC At year end the Group had an 82.9% interest in Twin Metals Minnesota LLC Twin Metals, with the remaining percentage held by others.
During 2015, Antofagasta acquired 100% of Duluth Metals and as a result of this a 100% interest in Twin Metals.
Total Mineral Resources did not change from 2014 Statement: however for the Group, the attributable copper increased.
Twin Metals has a 70% interest in the Birch Lake Joint Venture BLJV which holds the Birch Lake, Spruce Road and Maturi Southwest deposits, as well as a portion of the main Maturi deposit.
The prices used for the Twin Metals resource estimate remain unchanged from 2014.
The cut-off grade applied to the determination of mineral resources is 0.3% copper, which when combined with credits from nickel, platinum, palladium and gold, is deemed appropriate for an underground operation.
In the resource table TPM Total Precious Metals refers to the sum of platinum, palladium and gold values in grammes per tonne.
The TPM value of 0.57 for the Maturi resource estimate is made up of 0.15 g tonne platinum, 0.34 g tonne palladium and 0.08 g tonne gold.
The TPM value of 0.30 for the Maturi Southwest resource estimate is made up of 0.08 g tonne platinum, 0.17 g tonne palladium and 0.05 g tonne gold.
The TPM value of 0.70 g tonne for the Birch Lake resource estimate is made up of 0.19 g tonne platinum, 0.41 g tonne palladium and 0.10 g tonne gold.
The Spruce Road resource estimate does not include TPM values as they were not assayed.
m Zaldvar Antofagasta acquired 50% of Minera Zaldvar Barrick Gold Corporation.
The transaction was completed on 1 December 2015 and Antofagasta became the operator of the mine.
Reserves included in reserves pit shell considered a copper price of 3.0 US$ lb while the Mineral Resource pit shell was 3.50 US$ lb.
n Other mineral inventory In addition to the Mineral Resources noted above, the Group has interests in other deposits located in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, some of them containing gold and or molybdenum.
At the moment they are in exploration or in the process of resource estimation.
The potential quantity and grade of each of the deposits is conceptual in nature, there has been insufficient exploration to define these deposits as mineral resources, and it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the determination of a mineral resource.
These include: i In the Michilla District The Rencoret deposit, owned 100% by the Group.
Number Ownership Tonnes range Grade range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Rencoret 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 100.0 Total 15 25 1.22 1.00 31 8,300 ii In the El Abra District Brujulina is a mineral deposit within a few kilometres of the El Abra ore body, located near Calama in the Antofagasta Region of Chile.
The Mineral Inventory of Brujulina deposit, owned 51% by the Group, is estimated to be in the range of 50 to 80 million tonnes with grades in the range of 0.65% to 0.53% copper.
Number Ownership Tonnes range Grade range drill Total interest Mineral deposit million tonnes % Cu holes metres % Brujulina 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 51.0 Total 50 80 0.65 0.53 159 15,300 o Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors The Group has an approximately 51% interest in two indirect subsidiaries, Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper exploration properties in Chiles Antofagasta Region and Coquimbo Region.
These include, among others, Penacho Blanco, Los Volcanes ex-Conchi and Brujulina see Note k above.
Theremaining approximately 49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors is owned by Mineralinvest Establishment Mineralinvest, a company controlled by the Luksic family.
Further details are set out in Note 36 e to the financial statements.
