Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Audio Visual AV Inventory During the current year, the Group have extended their product We tested the cost of the AV inventory by reference to a sample of offering to include a range of AV inventory to customers.
We have supplier invoice costs and assessed the amount of rebate that has therefore refined our inventory risk to focus on the valuation and been absorbed into the valuation of inventory.
obsolescence risk on AV inventory given the lack of history in selling these items and increased inherent risk of obsolescence.
We assessed the methodology behind the AV inventory provision to determine whether this is reasonable based on the nature of the There are a number of risks that can therefore have a material business and have considered the risk regarding additional impact on the AV inventory balance in the financial statements: provision being required by reviewing any inventory losses made The book valuation of AV inventory which should include during the financial year and considering post year end sales to the purchase cost of inventory net of supplier rebates: and identify any further sales made at a loss.
Provision requirements for slow-moving, obsolete, or damaged inventory as a result of the investment in inventory in the period.
Inventory counts have also been performed at locations in the UK and Germany.
See critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on pages 86 to 87.
We have also reviewed any specific rebates in relation to repositioning credits received from the suppliers.
Commercial income agreements The Group has a number of rebate agreements with its suppliers We have worked with management and the commercial team and that are based on the volume of purchases during the calendar year have inspected the key rebate agreements and assessed the criteria multiplied by an agreed rebate percentage scale which can vary for recognition of the rebates on the balance sheet based on the based on purchase levels.
contracted rebate percentage and the volumes of purchases forecast.
At the end of the financial year, the Group accrues the rebate debtor We have assessed the commercial income recognised in the owed by reference to the percentage rebate at the expected level Income Statement and have vouched a sample back to supporting of purchases for the full calendar year.
documentation to confirm whether they have been recognised in the Income Statement in line with the signed terms of the agreement.
The percentage accrued at the Groups financial year end may differ to the percentage achieved for the 2015 calendar year given the We have sent out confirmations to 26 suppliers asking them to estimate of forecast purchases is made early in the calendar year.
confirm the nature and specific terms of the any rebate agreements for amounts recognised in the year and held at the balance sheet date.
We agreed a sample of rebates received to credit notes received from the suppliers.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75
