Independent Auditors Report to the members of AO World Plc Opinion on financial statements of AO World Plc Going concern In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the statement within the Directors Report on page 70 that the Group Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2015 is a going concern.
We confirm that: and of the Groups loss for the year then ended: We have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards is appropriate: and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast the parent company financial statements have been properly significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, Companies Act 2006: and this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with as a going concern.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below The financial statements comprise the Consolidated income statement, are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of and Company statement of financial position, the Consolidated and the engagement team.
Company statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated and Company cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 33 and 1 to 16 for the Group and Company financial statements respectively.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, are applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Product protection plans The Group sells product protection plans to customers purchasing We agreed the key inputs to the fair value calculation which are electrical appliances, on behalf of a third-party Domestic & General plan cancellations and commission receipts to third-party Services Limited D&G, who, without recourse to the Group, documentation.
This involved agreeing: administer the plans, collect money from the customers and pay a A sample of plan cancellations within the D&G cancellation commission to the Group for each policy sold over the life of the plan.
statements to the fair value calculation: and A sample of commission receipts to D&G statements and Revenue recognised in the year for the plans sold in the year is based bank statements.
on a fair value calculation of commissions due over the expected life of the plan.
The expected life of the plan is profiled based on historical We compared the forecast cancellation rates over the expected life cancellation data.
of the plans to the historical cancellation data.
There is a risk therefore that the revenues are being recognised at the We also benchmarked the discount rate that the Group had used incorrect value and in the incorrect period.
There is an associated risk against an external market rate for a medium-term monetary asset.
around the recoverability of the receivable balance attributable to the product protection plans.
Our data specialists rebuilt the warranty cancellation curve from source data and used specialist tools to examine the integrity of There is a risk that a change in the interpretation of the existing law the formulae used to calculate the fair value of the revenue and or regulation could differ from the current management view of the receivable balance.
nature of product protection plans.
This could result in plans being considered as insurance contracts and accordingly the plans would We have reviewed the latest legal advice and variation agreements be regulated under the Financial Services Markets Act FSMA.
with regards to any updates regarding the legal position of the plans.
See critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on pages 86 to 87.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 74
