OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS OTHER INFORMATION ii Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to fluctuation in the copper price.
a Futures arbitrage The Group also has futures for copper production to swap COMEX price exposure for LME price exposure according to the Groups pricing policy.
At 31 December 2015 For instruments held at 31 December 2015 Copper production Weighted average remaining Covering a hedged period from 1 January 2016 period up to: tonnes Months Centinela 300 0.1 31 1 2016 b Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the floating rate interest relating to the Centinela project financing and long-term loans at the Railway for fixed rate interest.
At 31 December 2015, theGroup had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Maximum notional Weighted average amount fixed rate Start date Maturity date $m % Centinela Concentrates 15 2 2011 15 8 2018 105.0 3.372 Railway and other transport services 12 8 2014 12 8 2019 120.0 1.634 The actual notional amount hedged depends upon the amount of the related debt currently outstanding.
27 Long-term incentive plan The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
Details of the Awards Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject to the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests: and Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary sharessubject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested and the market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable byparticipants in respect oftheawards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
Inordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reflect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
A One-off Award was granted to Diego Hernndez, the Group CEO, following his appointment during 2012.
This award was granted for the same purpose as the awards granted under the LTI Plan but by reference to metrics which are specific to the participants role as CEO.
