Directors report Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We confirm to the best of our knowledge: regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also elected to prepare liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS as the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and adopted by the EU.
performance of the business and the position of the Group, together Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state faces: and of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International are fair, balanced and understandable and provide information Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner By order of the Board that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a ERIC WATKINS going concern.
Company secretary The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 15 June 2015 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 Financial statements Our Financial Statements 2015 87 12.
Cash and cash equivalents 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 88 13.
Property, plant and equipment REPORT TO THE MEMBERS 89 14.
Intangible assets OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC including goodwill CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 90 15.
Obligations under 74 Consolidated income statement finance leases 74 Consolidated statement of 92 18.
Deferred tax 75 Consolidated balance sheet 93 20.
Share capital and reserves 76 Consolidated statement of 93 21.
Share-based payments changes in equity 94 22.
Operating leases 77 Consolidated cash flow statement 94 23.
Pensions NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED 97 24.
Financial risk management FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 25.
Exceptional items and sheet date amortisation 103 30.
Earnings per share 107 TEN YEAR HISTORY 86 10.
Trade and other receivables 108 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 70
