Financial Statements Company Accounting Policies Basis of presentation of Basis of accounting The Companys deferred tax assets and financialinformation The Company Financial Statements are liabilities are calculated using tax rates that These financial statements were prepared in prepared under the historical cost convention, are expected to apply in the period when the accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure modified to include revaluation to fair value liability is settled or the asset realised based Framework.
The amendments to FRS101 ofcertain financial instruments as described on tax rates that have been enacted or 2014 15 Cycle issued in July 2015 and below, in accordance with the Companies substantively enacted by the reporting date.
effective immediately have been applied.
The Group Financial Statements Accruals for tax contingencies require are presented on pages 140 to 195 and have management to make judgements and In preparing these financial statements, been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as theCompany applied the recognition, estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit adopted by the EU and as issued by the IASB issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless measurement and disclosure requirements and in accordance with the Group Accounting ofInternational Financial Reporting Standards the tax positions will probably be sustained.
Policies set out on pages 144 to 148.
Once considered to be probable, management as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary in order The following paragraphs describe the main reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has accounting policies, which have been set out below where advantage of the FRS101 appliedconsistently.
full recognition of that benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and disclosure exemptions has been taken.
Any liability to interest on tax In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has Profit and loss account items in foreign liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
applied IFRS1 while ensuring that its assets currencies are translated into US dollars at and liabilities are measured in compliance average rates for the relevant accounting Investments with FRS101.
On transition to IFRS no GAAP periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated Fixed asset investments, including investments differences arose.
atexchange rates prevailing at the date of the in subsidiaries, are stated at cost and reviewed Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange gains for impairment if there are indications that the In these financial statements, the Company and losses on loans and on short-term foreign carrying value may not be recoverable.
has applied the exemptions available under currency borrowings and deposits are included FRS101 in respect of the following disclosures Share-based payments within net interest payable.
Exchange The issuance by the Company to employees Statement of Cash Flows and related notes differences on all other transactions, except of its subsidiaries of a grant of awards over comparative period reconciliations for relevant foreign currency loans, are taken to the Companys shares, represents additional share capital operating profit.
capital contributions by the Company to its disclosures in respect of transactions subsidiaries.
An additional investment in Taxation withwholly owned subsidiaries The current tax payable is based on taxable subsidiaries results in a corresponding disclosures in respect of increase in shareholders equity.
The additional profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from capitalmanagement reported profit because taxable profit excludes capital contribution is based on the fair value of the effects of new but not yet the grant issued, allocated over the underlying items that are either never taxable or tax effectiveIFRSs deductible or items that are taxable or tax grants vesting period, less the market cost of disclosures in respect of the compensation shares charged to subsidiaries in settlement deductible in a different period.
The Companys of Key Management Personnel.
current tax assets and liabilities are calculated of such share awards.
As the Group Financial Statements using tax rates that have been enacted or Financial instruments presented on pages 140 to 195 include the substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Loans and other receivables are held at equivalent disclosures, the Company has Deferred tax is provided using the balance amortised cost.
Long-term loans payable also taken theexemptions under FRS101 sheet liability method, providing for temporary areheld at amortised cost.
available in respect of the following disclosures differences between the carrying amounts of Litigation IFRS2 Share-based Payment in respect assets and liabilities for financial reporting Through the normal course of business, the ofgroup settled share-based payments.
purposes and the amounts used for taxation AstraZeneca Group is involved in legal disputes, purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised the settlement of which may involve cost to No individual profit and loss account is to the extent that it is probable that taxable prepared as provided by Section 408 of the Company.
Provision is made where an profit will be available against which the asset adverse outcome is probable and associated theCompanies Act 2006.
The Company can be utilised.
This requires judgements to proposes to continue to adopt the reduced costs can be estimated reliably.
In other be made in respect of the availability of future cases, appropriate descriptions are included.
disclosure framework of FRS101 in its next taxable income.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised The accounting policies set out below in respect of temporary differences associated have, unless otherwise stated, been applied with investments in subsidiaries and branches consistently to all periods presented in these where the Company is able to control the timing financial statements.
of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 199
