Additional Information Patent Expiries Patent expiries for our key marketed products AstraZeneca is exposed to third party challenges of its patents and products.
Generic products may be launched at risk and our patents may be revoked, circumvented or found not to be infringed.
For more information, please see Risk from page 212.
Many of our products are subject to challenges by third parties.
Details of material challenges by third parties can be found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements from page 186.
The expiry dates shown below do not include any granted SPC PTE and or Paediatric Exclusivity periods unless asterisked: see key in footnotes.
In Europe, the exact SPC situation may vary by country as different Patent Offices may grant SPC at different rates.
A number of our products are subject to generic competition in one or more markets.
Further information can be found in the Geographical Review from page 227.
4 A settlement agreement permits Watson Laboratories, Inc. and Actavis, Inc. together, Watson to begin selling its generic version of Crestor and its rosuvastatin zinc product beginning 2 May 2016.
5 Date in brackets reflects seven years Orphan Drug exclusivity to 13 July 2022.
6 Komboglyze Kombiglyze XR Product Sales are included in the Onglyza Product Sales figure.
7 Licence agreements with Teva and Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals Inc. and other generic companies allow each to launch a generic version in the US from May 2014, subject to regulatory approval.
8 A l icence agreement with Teva permits their ongoing sale in the US of a generic version from December 2009.
The 2018 expiry relates to the Flexhaler device, while the 2019 expiry relates to the formulation in the Flexhaler presentation and also to Respules.
9 L icence agreements with various generics companies allow launches of generic versions of Seroquel XR in the US from 1 November 2016 or earlier upon certain circumstances, subject to regulatory approval.
10 Aggregate revenue for China, the EU and Japan.
11 Expiry in major EU markets.
13 The patent was revoked during opposition proceedings at the European Patent Office.
The patentee has appealed that decision.
14 Regulatory approval for the product is pending in China.
15 There is eight years data exclusivity and two years market exclusivity for Byetta and Bydureon to 2016.
16 Decision of the Patent Reexamination Board invalidating the patent suspended pending outcome of appeal process.
There is eight years data exclusivity and two years market exclusivity for Iressa in the EU to 24 June 2019.
18 The 2018 expiry relates to the formulation in the Turbuhaler presentation and to a process useful for the Respules product.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 211
