Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies Basis of accounting and preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements mature markets.
However, we anticipate new offinancial information arepresented in US dollars, which is the revenue streams from both recently launched The Consolidated Financial Statements Companys functional currency.
medicines and products in development, and havebeen prepared under the historical cost the Group has a wide diversity of customers In preparing their individual Financial convention, modified to include revaluation and suppliers across different geographic Statements, the accounting policies of tofair value of certain financial instruments areas.
Consequently, the Directors believe someoverseas subsidiaries do not conform asdescribed below, in accordance with that, overall, the Group iswell placed to with IASB issued IFRSs.
Therefore, where theCompanies Act 2006 and International manage its business riskssuccessfully.
appropriate, adjustments are made in order Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as to present the Consolidated Financial After making enquiries, the Directors have adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs in response Statements on aconsistent basis.
areasonable expectation that the Company to the IAS regulation EC 1606 2002.
The and the Group have adequate resources Consolidated Financial Statements also comply Basis for preparation of Financial tocontinue in operational existence for the fully with IFRSs asissued by the International Statements onagoingconcern basis foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Information on the business environment to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing AstraZeneca operates in, including the The Group updated its revenue accounting the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
factors underpinning the pharmaceutical policy with effect from 1 January 2015. industrys future growth prospects, is Estimates and judgements Historically, reported revenue reflected only included in the Strategic Report.
Details The preparation of the Financial Statements in Product Sales, with Externalisation Revenue ofthe product portfolio of the Group conformity with generally accepted accounting forming part of other operating income including patent expiry dates for key principles requires management to make presented below gross profit.
From 1January marketed products, our approach to estimates and judgements that affect the 2015, Externalisation Revenue, alongside product development and our development reported amounts of assets andliabilities at Product Sales, is included in Total Revenue.
pipeline are covered in detail with additional the date of the Financial Statements and the Externalisation Revenue includes information by Therapy Area inthe Strategic reported amounts of revenues and expenses development, commercialisation and Report and Directors Report.
Actual results collaboration revenue, such as royalties and could differ from those estimates.
milestone receipts, together with income The financial position of the Group, its cash fromservices or repeatable licences.
Income flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities Judgements include matters such as the is recorded as Externalisation Revenue when are described in the Financial Review from determination of operating segments while the Group has a significant ongoing interest page 62.
In addition, Note 25 to the Financial estimates focus on areas such as carrying in the product and or it is repeatable business Statements includes the Groups objectives, values, estimated useful lives, potential and there is no derecognition of an intangible policies and processes for managing its obligations and contingent consideration.
Disposals of assets and businesses, capital, its financial risk management AstraZenecas management considers where the Group does not retain an interest, objectives, details of its financial instruments thefollowing to be the most important will continue to be recorded in other operating and hedging activities and its exposures accounting policies in the context of the income.
The updated revenue accounting tocredit, market and liquidity risk.
policy results in a presentational change to the details of the Groups cash balances and Statement of Comprehensive Income only, borrowings areincluded in Notes 16 and 17 The accounting policy descriptions set out and has no impact on the Groups net results the areas where judgements and estimates to the Financial Statements.
The prior periods included in need exercising, the most significant of The Group has considerable financial resources the Groups Consolidated Statement of whichare revenue recognition, research and available.
As at 31December 2015, the Group Comprehensive Income have been restated development including impairment reviews has $8.3bn in financial resources cash accordingly, resulting in $452m of income ofassociated intangible assets, business balances of $6.2bn and undrawn committed being reclassified from other operating combinations and goodwill, litigation and bank facilities of $3.0bn that are available income to Externalisation Revenue for 2014 environmental liabilities, employee benefits untilApril 2020, with only $0.9bn of debt due and $95m of income being reclassified from and taxation.
Although no liability was other operating income to Externalisation recognised at 31 December 2015, the Group Further information on estimates and critical Revenue in 2013. had entered into an agreement to invest in judgements made in applying accounting During the year, the Group has adopted the amajority equity stake in Acerta with an policies, including details of significant amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, upfront payment of $2.5bn which was paid methods and assumptions used, is detailed issued by the IASB in November 2013 and on 2February 2016 see Note 30 to the in the Financial Review from page 62 and is effective for periods beginning on or after Financial Statements.
The Groups revenues included in Notes4, 8, 9, 20, 24 and 27 to 1July 2014.
The adoption has not had a are largely derived from sales of products theFinancial Statements.
Financial risk significant impact on the Groups profit for which are covered by patents which provide management policies are detailed in Note25.
theperiod, net assets or cash flows.
a relatively high level of resilience and Revenue predictability to cash inflows, although The Company has elected to prepare the Revenues comprise Product Sales and ourrevenue is expected to continue to be Company Financial Statements in accordance Externalisation Revenue.
significantly impacted bythe expiry of patents with UK Accounting Standards, including over the medium term.
In addition, government Revenues exclude inter-company revenues FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
price interventions in response to budgetary and value-added taxes.
These are presented on pages 197 to 201 constraints are expected to continue to andthe Accounting Policies in respect of adversely affect revenues in many of our Company information are set out on page199.
144 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Financial Statements Product Sales recognition criteria are met, intangible assets contingent liabilities cannot be measured Product sales represent net invoice value less are capitalised and amortised on a straightreliably, the assumed contingent liability is estimated rebates, returns and chargebacks.
line basis over their useful economic lives notrecognised but is disclosed in the same Sales are recognised when the significant from product launch.
At 31December 2015, manner as other contingent liabilities.
risks and rewards of ownership have been no amounts have met recognition criteria.
Future contingent elements of consideration, transferred to a third party.
In general, this is Payments to in-licence products and which may include development and launch upon delivery of the products to wholesalers.
compounds from third parties for new research milestones, revenue threshold milestones and In markets where returns are significant and development projects in process research revenue-based royalties, are fair valued at currently only in the US, estimates of returns and development, generally taking the form thedate of acquisition using decision-tree are accounted for at the point revenue is of upfront payments and milestones, are analysis with key inputs including probability recognised.
In markets where returns are not capitalised.
Where payments made to of success, consideration of potential delays significant, they are recorded when returned.
thirdparties represent future research and and revenue projections based on the For the US market, we estimate the quantity development activities, an evaluation is Groups internal forecasts.
Unsettled amounts and value of goods which may ultimately madeas to the nature of thepayments.
Such of consideration are held at fair value within bereturned at the point of sale.
Our returns payments are expensed if they represent payables with changes in fair value recognised accruals are based on actual experience compensation for subcontracted research immediately in profit.
overthe preceding 12 months for established and development services not resulting in Goodwill is the difference between the fair products together with market-related atransfer of intellectual property.
By contrast, value of the consideration and the fair value information such as estimated stock levels at paymentsare capitalised if they represent ofnet assets acquired.
wholesalers and competitor activity which we compensation for the transfer of intellectual receive via third party information services.
property developed at the risk of the thirdparty.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised For newly launched products, we use rates Since acquired products and compounds will and subject to an impairment review, both based on our experience with similar products only generate sales and cash inflows following annually and when there is an indication that or a predetermined percentage.
launch, our policy is to minimise the period the carrying value may not be recoverable.
between final approval and launch if it is Between 1January 1998 and 31December When a product faces generic competition, within AstraZenecas control to do so.
Assets 2002, goodwill was amortised over its particular attention is given to the possible capitalised are amortised, on a straight-line estimated useful life: such amortisation levels of returns and, in cases where the basis, over their useful economic lives from ceased on 31 December 2002. circumstances are such that the level of product launch.
Under this policy, it is not returns and, hence, revenue cannot be The Groups policy up to and including 1997 possible to determine precise economic lives measured reliably, revenues are only was to eliminate goodwill arising upon for individual classes of intangible assets.
recognised when the right of return expires, acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS1 However, lives do not exceed 25 years.
which is generally on ultimate prescription of First-time Adoption of International Financial the product to patients.
Intangible assets relating to products in Reporting Standards and IFRS3 Business development are subject to impairment testing Combinations, such goodwill will remain Externalisation Revenue annually.
All intangible assets are tested for eliminated against reserves.
Externalisation Revenue includes income from impairment when there are indications that collaborative arrangements on the Groups Joint arrangements the carrying value may not be recoverable.
products where the Group retains asignificant The Group has arrangements over which it Any impairment losses are recognised ongoing interest and there is no derecognition has joint control and which qualify as joint immediately in profit.
Intangible assets relating of an intangible asset.
These may include operations or joint ventures under IFRS11 to products whichfail during development development arrangements, commercialisation Joint Arrangements.
For joint operations, orfor which development ceases for other arrangements and collaborations.
theGroup recognises its share of revenue reasons aretested for impairment at the point that it earns from the joint operations and its Income may take the form of upfront access of termination and are written down to their share of expenses incurred.
The Group also fees, milestones and or sales royalties.
recoverable amount which is usually zero.
recognises the assets associated with the Generally, upfront access fees are recognised joint operations that it controls and the If, subsequent to an impairment loss being upon delivery of the access.
Where the recognised, development restarts or other liabilities it incurs under the joint arrangement.
Group provides ongoing services, revenue Forjoint ventures, the Group recognises its facts and circumstances change indicating will be recognised overthe duration of those that the impairment is less or no longer exists, interest in the joint venture as an investment services.
Milestones and sales royalties and uses the equity method of accounting.
the value of the asset is re-estimated and its arerecognised when the amount can be carrying value is increased to the recoverable reliably estimated.
Employee benefits amount, but not exceeding theoriginal value, The Group accounts for pensions and other Further detail on key judgements and by recognising an impairment reversal in profit.
employee benefits principally healthcare estimates is included in the Financial Review Business combinations and goodwill under IAS19 Employee Benefits issued from page 62.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values in2011.
In respect of defined benefit plans, Research and development are attributed to the identifiable assets and obligations are measured at discounted Research expenditure is recognised in profit liabilities and contingent liabilities unless the present value while plan assets are measured in the year in which it is incurred.
fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which at fair value.
Theoperating and financing case the value is subsumed into goodwill.
costs of such plans are recognised separately Internal development expenditure is capitalised Where the Group fully acquires, through in profit: current service costs are spread only if it meets the recognition criteria of IAS38 abusiness combination, assets that were systematically over the lives ofemployees and Intangible Assets.
Whereregulatory and previously held in joint operations, the Group financing costs are recognised in full in the other uncertainties are such that the criteria has elected not to uplift the book value of the periods in which they arise.
Remeasurements are not met, the expenditure is recognised existing interest in the asset held in the joint of the net defined pension liability, including inprofit and thisis almost invariably thecase operation to fair value at the date full control actuarial gains and losses, are recognised prior to approval of the drug by the relevant istaken.
Where fair values of acquired immediately in other comprehensive income.
Where, however, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 145 Financial Statements Where the calculation results in a surplus to received.
The value of the charge is adjusted Forfinished goods and work in progress, the Group, the recognised asset is limited to reflect expected and actual levels of awards cost includes directly attributable costs tothe present value of any available future vesting, except where the failure to vest is as andcertain overhead expenses including refunds from the plan or reductions in future a result of not meeting amarket condition.
Selling expenses and certain contributions to the plan.
Payments to Cancellations of equity instruments are other overhead expenses principally central defined contribution plans are recognised treated as an acceleration of the vesting period administration costs are excluded.
Net inprofit as they fall due.
and any outstanding charge is recognised in realisable value is determined as estimated profit immediately.
selling price less all estimated costs of Taxation completion and costs to be incurred in selling The current tax payable is based on taxable Property, plant and equipment and distribution.
Taxable profit differs The Groups policy is to write off the difference fromreported profit because taxable profit between the cost of each item ofproperty, Write-downs of inventory occur in the general excludes items that are either never taxable plant and equipment and its residual value over course of business and are recognised in or tax deductible or items that are taxable or its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis.
tax deductible in a different period.
TheGroups Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Trade and other receivables current tax assets and liabilities are calculated Reviews are made annually of the estimated Financial assets included in trade and other using tax rates that have been enacted or remaining lives and residual values of receivables are recognised initially at fair substantively enacted by the reporting date.
individual productive assets, taking account of value.
Subsequent to initial recognition Deferred tax is provided using the balance commercial and technological obsolescence theyare measured at amortised cost using sheet liability method, providing for temporary as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this theeffective interest rate method, less any differences between the carrying amounts policy it becomes impractical to calculate impairment losses.
Trade receivables that are ofassets and liabilities for financial reporting average asset lives exactly.
However, the total subject to debt factoring arrangements are purposes and the amounts used for taxation lives range from approximately 10 to 50 years derecognised if they meet the conditions for purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for buildings, and three to 15 years for plant derecognition detailed in IAS39 Financial to the extent that it is probable that taxable and equipment.
All items of property, plant and Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
profit will be available against which the asset equipment are tested for impairment when Trade and other payables can be utilised.
This requires judgements to there are indications that the carrying value Financial liabilities included in trade and other be made in respect of the availability of future may not be recoverable.
Any impairment payables are recognised initially at fair value.
losses are recognised immediately in profit.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in Borrowing costs measured at amortised cost using the respect of temporary differences associated The Group has no borrowing costs with respect effective interest rate method.
with investments in subsidiaries and branches to the acquisition or construction of qualifying Financial instruments where the Group is able to control the timing assets.
All other borrowing costs are recognised The Groups financial instruments include of reversal of the temporary differences and it in profit as incurred and in accordance with interests in leases, trade and other receivables is probable that the temporary differences will the effective interest rate method.
and payables, liabilities for contingent not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Leases consideration under business combinations, The Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities Leases are classified as finance leases if they and rights and obligations under employee are calculated using tax rates that are transfer substantially all the risks and rewards benefit plans which are dealt with in specific expected to apply in the period when the incidental to ownership, otherwise they are accounting policies.
liability is settled or the asset realised based classified as operating leases.
Assets and The Groups other financial instrumentsinclude: on tax rates that have been enacted or liabilities arising on finance leases are initially substantively enacted by the reporting date.
recognised at fair value or, if lower, the present cash and cash equivalents value of the minimum lease payments.
The fixed deposits Accruals for tax contingencies require discount rate used in calculating the present other investments management to make judgements and value of the minimum lease payments is the bank and other borrowings estimates of exposures in relation to tax audit interest rate implicit in the lease.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless charges under finance leases are allocated the tax positions will probably be sustained.
Cash and cash equivalents toeach reporting period so as to produce Once considered to be probable, management Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in aconstant periodic rate of interest on the reviews each material tax benefit to assess hand, current balances with banks and similar remaining balance of the finance liability.
whether a provision should be taken against institutions and highly liquid investments Rentals under operating leases are charged full recognition ofthat benefit on the basis of withmaturities of three months or less when to profit on a straight-line basis.
potential settlement through negotiation and acquired.
They are readily convertible into or litigation.
Any liability to interest on tax known amounts of cash and are held at Subsidiaries liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly amortised cost.
SeeNote 27 to the Financial Statements for orindirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC.
Control is Fixed deposits further details.
regarded as the exposure or rights to the Fixed deposits, principally comprising funds variable returns of the entity when combined Sharebased payments held with banks and other financial institutions, with the power to affect those returns.
All plans are assessed and have been classified are initially measured at fair value, plus direct as equity settled.
The grant date fair value of The financial results of subsidiaries are transaction costs, and are subsequently employee share plan awards is calculated consolidated from the date control is remeasured to amortised cost using the using a modified version of the binomial model.
obtained until the date that control ceases.
effective interest rate method at each reporting In accordance with IFRS2 Share-based date.
Changes in carrying value are recognised Inventories Payment, the resulting cost is recognised in in profit.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost profit over the vesting period of the awards, andnet realisable value.
The first in, first out being the period in which the services are or an average method of valuation is used.
146 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Financial Statements Other investments Foreign currencies Where it is considered that the Group has Where investments have been classified as Foreign currency transactions, being avalid contract which provides the right to held for trading, they are measured initially transactions denominated in a currency reimbursement from insurance or otherwise atfair value and subsequently remeasured otherthan an individual Group entitys of legal costs and or all or part of any loss tofair value at each reporting date.
Changes functional currency, are translated into the incurred or for which a provision has been in fair value are recognised in profit.
relevant functional currencies of individual established, the best estimate of the amount Group entities at average rates for the expected to be received is recognised as an In all other circumstances, the investments are relevant monthly accounting periods, which asset only when it is virtually certain.
classified as available for sale, initially measured approximate to actual rates.
at fair value including direct transaction costs AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental and subsequently remeasured to fair value Monetary assets and liabilities, arising from liabilities relating to its past operations, ateach reporting date.
Changes in carrying foreign currency transactions, are retranslated principally in respect of soil and groundwater value due to changes in exchange rates on at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs monetary available for sale investments or date.
Exchange gains and losses on loans and are made when there is a present obligation impairments are recognised in profit.
All other on short-term foreign currency borrowings and where it is probable that expenditure on changes in fair value are recognised in other and deposits are included within finance remedial work will be required and a reliable comprehensive income.
Exchange differences on all other estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions foreign currency transactions are recognised are discounted where the effect is material.
Impairments are recorded in profit when in operating profit in the individual Group thereis a decline in the value of an investment Impairment entitys accounting records.
that is deemed to be other than temporary.
The carrying values of non-financial assets, On disposal of the investment, the cumulative Non-monetary items arising from foreign other than inventories and deferred tax amount recognised in other comprehensive currency transactions are not retranslated in the assets, are reviewed at least annually to income is recognised in profit as part of the individual Group entitys accounting records.
determine whether there is any indication of gain or loss on disposal.
For goodwill, intangible assets In the Consolidated Financial Statements, under development and for any other assets Bank and other borrowings income and expense items for Group entities where such indication exists, the assets The Group uses derivatives, principally interest with a functional currency other than US dollars recoverable amount is estimated based rate swaps, to hedge the interest rate exposure are translated into US dollars at average onthe greater of its value in use and its fair inherent in a portion of its fixed interest rate exchange rates, which approximate to actual value less cost to sell.
In such cases the Group will either rates, for the relevant accounting periods.
inuse, the estimated future cash flows, designate the debt as fair value through profit Assets and liabilities are translated at the adjusted for the risks specific to each asset, or loss when certain criteria are met or as the USdollar exchange rates prevailing at the are discounted to their present value using hedged item under a fair value hedge.
Exchange differences arising adiscount rate that reflects current market on consolidation are recognised in other If the debt instrument is designated as fair assessments of the time value of money, comprehensive income.
value through profit or loss, the debt is initially thegeneral risks affecting the pharmaceutical measured at fair value with direct transaction If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar industry and other risks specific to each costs being included in profit as an expense and denominated loans or derivatives are asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date designated as net investment hedges of foreign assets are grouped together into the with changes in carrying value being recognised operations.
Exchange differences arising on smallestgroup of assets that generates cash in profit along with changes in the fair value of retranslation of net investments, and of inflows from continuing use that are largely the related derivative.
Such a designation has foreign currency loans which are designated in independent of the cash flows of other been made where this significantly reduces an an effective net investment hedge relationship, assets.
Impairment losses are recognised accounting mismatch which would result from are recognised in other comprehensive income immediately in profit.
recognising gains and losses on different bases.
in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
International accounting transition Foreign exchange derivatives hedging net If the debt is designated as the hedged item On transition to using adopted IFRSs in the investments in foreign operations are carried at under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially year ended 31December 2005, the Group fair value.
Effective fair value movements are measured at fair value with direct transaction took advantage of several optional exemptions recognised in other comprehensive income, costs being amortised over the life of the available in IFRS1 First-time Adoption of with any ineffectiveness taken to the income bonds, and is remeasured for fair value International Financial Reporting Standards.
Gains and losses accumulated changes in respect of the hedged risk ateach The major impacts which are of continuing inthe translation reserve will be recycled to reporting date with changes in carrying value importance are detailed below: profit when the foreign operation is sold.
being recognised in profit along with changes Business combinations IFRS3 Business in the fair value of the related derivative.
Litigation and environmental liabilities Combinations has been applied from AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, Other interest-bearing loans are initially 1January 2003, the date of transition, thesettlement of which may involve cost to measured at fair value with direct transaction rather than being applied fully retrospectively.
Provision is made where an adverse costs being amortised over the life of the As a result, the combination of Astra and outcome is probable and associated costs, bond and are subsequently remeasured to Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, including related legal costs, can be estimated amortised cost using the effective interest rather than through purchase accounting.
In other cases, appropriate disclosures rate method at each reporting date.
Changes Ifpurchase accounting had been adopted, are included.
in carrying value are recognised in profit.
Zeneca would have been deemed to have Where it is considered that the Group is acquired Astra.
Derivatives morelikely than not to prevail, or in the rare Cumulative exchange differences Derivatives are initially measured at fair value circumstances where the amount of the theGroup chose to set the cumulative with direct transaction costs being included legalliability cannot be estimated reliably, exchange difference reserve at 1January in profit as an expense and are subsequently legal costs involved in defending the claim 2003 to zero.
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
arecharged to profit as they are incurred.
Changes in carrying value are recognised inprofit.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 147 Financial Statements Applicable accounting standards and In addition, the following amendments have interpretations issued but not yet adopted been issued: IFRS9 Financial Instruments was finalised Amendments to IFRS11 Accounting for by the IASB in July 2014 and is effective for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, accounting periods beginning on or after effective for periods beginning on or after 1January 2018.
The new standard will replace 1January 2016. existing accounting standards.
It is applicable Amendments to IAS16 Property, Plant and to financial assets and liabilities, and will Equipment and IAS38 Intangible Assets introduce changes to existing accounting Clarification of Acceptable Methods of concerning classification and measurement, Depreciation and Amortisation, effective for impairment introducing an expected-loss periods beginning on or after 1January 2016. method, hedge accounting, and on the Amendments to IFRS10 Consolidated treatment of gains arising from the impact Financial Statements and IAS28 ofcredit risk on the measurement of liabilities Investments in Associates and Joint held at fair value.
The standard has not yet Ventures 2011 Sale or Contribution of been endorsed by the EU.
The adoption of Assets between an Investor and its IFRS9 is not expected to have a significant Associate or Joint Venture.
The IASB has impact on the Groups net results or net deferred those amendments until a date assets, although the full impact will be subject tobe determined by the IASB, although to further assessment.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Amendments to IAS1 Disclosure Initiative, Customers was issued by the IASB in May effective for periods beginning on or after 2014.
It is effective for accounting periods 1January 2016. beginning on or after 1January 2018.
The The above amendments are not expected new standard will replace existing accounting tohave a significant impact on the Groups standards, and provides enhanced detail net results, net assets or disclosures.
The onthe principle of recognising revenue to amendments to IFRS11 were endorsed by the reflect the transfer of goods and services EU on 24November 2015, the amendments tocustomers at a value which the company to IAS16 and IAS38 were endorsed by the expects to be entitled to receive.
The standard EU on 2December 2015 and the amendments also updates revenue disclosure requirements.
to IAS1 were endorsed by the EU on The standard has yet to be endorsed by the 18December 2015.
The Group is continuing to assess the IFRS10 and IAS28 have yet to be endorsed impact of IFRS15 on the results of the Group by theEU.
and including, but not limited to, the impact on licence income and milestone revenues.
IFRS16 Leases was issued by the IASB in January 2016 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1January 2019.
The new standard will replace IAS17 Leases and will eliminate the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, instead, introduce a single lessee accounting model.
The standard has yet tobe endorsed by the EU.
The adoption of IFRS16 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups net results or net assets, although the full impact will be subject to further assessment.
148 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
