At 31 December 2015, the Company had capital under section 135 of the Companies representing 99.6% of Astras shares and 97,260 registered holders of 1,264,122,670 Act 1985.
Upon the reduction of capital the remaining 0.4% was acquired in 2000, Ordinary Shares.
There were 104,150 becoming effective, all issued and unissued for cash.
holders of Ordinary Shares held under Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum the Euroclear Services Agreement, arising as a result of the share cancellation Since April 1999, following the merger of representing 10.8% of the issued share credited to a special reserve, which was Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for capital of the Company and approximately converted into US dollars at the rate of trading in the shares of the Company are 172,000 holders of ADSs, representing exchange prevailing on the record date.
This the LSE, the SSE and the NYSE.
The table 10.8% of the issued share capital of the US dollar reserve was then applied in paying overleaf sets out, for 2014 and 2015, the Company.
With effect from 27 July 2015, up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
reported high and low share prices of the the Companys ADS ratio changed to two Company, on the following bases: ADSs per one Ordinary Share.
The former At the same time as the US dollar shares ratio was one ADS per one Ordinary Share.
were issued, the Company issued 50,000 For shares listed on the LSE, the reported With effect from 6 February 2015, Citibank, Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, high and low middle market closing N. A. Citibank succeeded JPMorgan at par.
The Redeemable Preference Shares quotations are derived from the Daily Chase Bank JPMorgan as depositary carry limited class voting rights, no dividend Official List.
rights and are capable of redemption, at par, For shares listed on the SSE, the high and at the option of the Company on the giving low closing sales prices are as stated in In 1999, in connection with the merger of seven days written notice to the the Official List.
between Astra and Zeneca through which registered holder of the Redeemable For ADSs listed on the NYSE, the the Company was formed, the Companys Preference Shares.
reported high and low sales prices are as share capital was redenominated in US reported by Dow Jones ADR quotations.
On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, issued to Astra shareholders who accepted credited as fully paid on the basis of one the merger offer before the final closing dollar share for each Zeneca share then date, 21 May 1999.
The former ratio was one ADS per one Ordinary Share.
Major shareholdings At 31 December 2015, the following had disclosed an interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company in accordance with the requirements of rules 5.1.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Date of Percentage of Number of disclosure to issued share 1 Shareholder Ordinary Shares Company capital BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 7.98 Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.08 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 37,925,813 17 July 2015 3.00 1 S ince the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase on the cancellation of shares following a repurchase of shares under the Companys share repurchase programme or decrease on the issue of new shares under any of the Companys share plans.
So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
No changes to major shareholdings were disclosed to the Company between 31 December 2015 and 31 January 2016.
Any changes between 31 January 2016 and 29 February 2016 will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2016 and Shareholders Circular.
Changes in the percentage ownership held by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below.
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
31 January 31 January 31 January 2 February Shareholder 2016 2015 2014 2013 BlackRock, Inc. 7.98 7.99 8.01 8.08 Investor AB 4.08 4.08 4.09 4.13 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.00 3.00 3.01 3.00 Invesco Limited 5.00 5.00 5.78 5.83 Axa SA 3.00 3.00 4.52 4.57 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.00 3.00 3.00 4.62 ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by Citibank, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE.
At 31 January 2016, the proportion of Ordinary Shares represented by ADSs was 11.07% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 31 January 2016: In the US: 712 Total: 97,256 Number of record holders of ADRs at 31 January 2016: In the US: 1,889 Total: 1,912 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 241 Additional Information Shareholder Information continued So far as the Company is aware, it is Dividend payments The Unclaimed Assets Register neither directly nor indirectly owned or For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE and The Company supplies unclaimed dividend controlled by one or more corporations the SSE, the record date for the second data to the Unclaimed Assets Register or by any government.
interim dividend for 2015, payable on UAR, which provides investors who have 21 March 2016, is 19 February 2016 and the lost track of shareholdings with an The Company does not know of any ex-dividend date is 18 February 2016.
For opportunity to search the UARs database arrangements, the operation of which ADRs listed on the NYSE, the record date is of unclaimed financial assets on payment of might result in a change in the control of 19 February 2016 and the ex-dividend date a small fixed fee.
The UAR donates part of the Company.
is 17 February 2016. the search fee to charity.
The UAR can be contacted on 0844 481 8180 or at At 31 January 2016, the total amount of The record date for the first interim dividend uarenquiries@uk.
the Companys voting securities owned by for 2016, payable on 12 September 2016, Directors and officers of the Company was: is 12 August 2016.
Results Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca in Amount Percentage Future dividends will normally be paid as respect of the first three months of 2016 will Title of class owned of class follows: be published on 29 April 2016 and results in Ordinary Shares 500,191 0.04 respect of the first six months of 2016 will be First interim: Announced in July August published on 28 July 2016.
Related party transactions and paid in September.
During the period 1 January 2015 to Documents on display 31 January 2016, there were no transactions, Second interim: Announced in January The Articles and other documents loans, or proposed transactions between February and paid in March.
concerning the Company which are referred the Company and any related parties which to in this Annual Report may be inspected were material to either the Company or the Shareview at the Companys registered office at related party, or which were unusual in their The Companys shareholders with 2 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD.
nature or conditions see also Note 29 to the internet access may visit the website, Financial Statements from page 192. www.
co. uk, and register their Taxation for US persons details to create a portfolio.
Shareview is The following summary of material UK Options to purchase securities from a free and secure online service from the and US federal income tax consequences registrant or subsidiaries Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, which of ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs a At 31 January 2016, options outstanding gives access to shareholdings, including held as capital assets by the US holders to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were: balance movements, indicative share prices described below is based on current UK and information about recent dividends.
and US federal income tax law, including Subscription Normal Number of shares price pence expiry date the US UK double taxation convention 3,725,301 1882 3599 2016 2021 ShareGift relating to income and capital gains, The Company welcomes and values all of which entered into force on 31 March its shareholders, no matter how many or 2003 the Convention.
This summary does The weighted average subscription price of how few shares they own.
However, not describe all of the tax consequences options outstanding at 31 January 2016 was shareholders who have only a small number that may be relevant in light of the US 2713 pence.
All options were granted under of shares whose value makes it uneconomic holders particular circumstances and Company employee share schemes.
to sell them, either now or at some stage in tax consequences applicable to US the future, may wish to consider donating holders subject to special rules such b Included in paragraph a are options them to charity through ShareGift, an as certain financial institutions, entities granted to officers of the Company independent charity share donation treated as partnerships for US federal as follows: scheme.
One feature of the scheme is that income tax purposes, persons whose Subscription Normal there is no gain or loss for UK capital gains functional currency for US federal Number of shares price pence expiry date tax purposes on gifts of shares through income tax purposes is not the US dollar, 40,343 2280 3599 2017 2021 ShareGift, and it may now also be possible tax-exempt entities, persons subject to to obtain UK income tax relief on the alternative minimum tax, persons subject c At 31 January 2016, none of the Directors donation.
Further information about to the Medicare contribution tax on net of the Company held options to subscribe ShareGift can be found on its website, investment income, or persons holding for Ordinary Shares.
org, or by contacting Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at 17 Carlton with a trade or business conducted outside During the period 1 January 2015 to House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH.
US holders are urged to 31January 2016, no Director exercised ShareGift is administered by The Orr consult their tax advisers regarding the any options.
Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity UK and US federal income tax number 1052686.
More information about consequences of the ownership and the UK tax position on gifts of shares disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADRs to ShareGift can be obtained from in their particular circumstances.
HM Revenue & Customs on its website, www.
242 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information This summary is based in part on not maintain calculations of its earnings tax advisers about the treatment of capital representations of Citibank as depositary and profits under US federal income tax gains, which may be taxed at lower rates for ADRs and assumes that each obligation principles and so it is expected that than ordinary income for non-corporate US in the deposit agreement among the distributions generally will be reported to holders and capital losses, the deductibility Company and the depositary and the US holders as dividends.
The amount of of which may be subject to limitations.
holders from time to time of ADRs and any the dividend will be the US dollar amount related agreements will be performed in received by the depositary for US holders Passive Foreign Investment Company accordance with its terms.
The US Treasury of ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary Shares, PFIC rules has expressed concerns that parties to the US dollar value of the foreign currency We believe that we were not a PFIC for US whom American depositary shares are payment, determined at the spot rate of the federal income tax purposes for the year released before shares are delivered to the relevant foreign currency on the date the ended 31 December 2015.
However, since depositary pre-release, or intermediaries dividend is received by the US holders, PFIC status depends on the composition of in the chain of ownership between holders regardless of whether the dividend is our income and assets, and the market and the issuer of the security underlying converted into US dollars, and it will not be value of our assets including, among the American depositary shares, may be eligible for the dividends received deduction others, less than 25% owned equity taking actions that are inconsistent with generally available to US corporations.
If the investments, from time to time, there the claiming, by US holders of American dividend is converted into US dollars on the can be no assurance that we will not be depositary shares, of foreign tax credits date of receipt, US holders of Ordinary considered a PFIC for any taxable year.
If we for US federal income tax purposes.
Such Shares generally should not be required to were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year actions would also be inconsistent with the recognise foreign currency gains or losses during which Ordinary Shares or ADRs were claiming of the reduced tax rates, described in respect of the dividend income.
They may held, certain adverse tax consequences below, applicable to dividends received have foreign currency gain or loss taxable could apply to US holders.
by certain non-corporate US holders.
at the rates applicable to ordinary income Accordingly, the availability of the reduced if the amount of such dividend is converted Information reporting and backup tax rates for dividends received by certain into US dollars after the date of its receipt.
withholding non-corporate US holders could be affected Payments of dividends and sales proceeds by actions that may be taken by parties to Subject to applicable limitations and the that are made within the US or through whom ADRs are pre-released.
discussion above regarding concerns certain US-related financial intermediaries expressed by the US Treasury, dividends may be subject to information reporting and For the purposes of this summary, the term received by certain non-corporate US backup withholding, unless: i the US holder US holder means a beneficial owner of holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may is a corporation or other exempt recipient: Ordinary Shares or ADRs that is, for US be taxable at favourable US federal income or ii in the case of backup withholding, the federal income tax purposes, a citizen or tax rates.
US holders should consult their US holder provides a correct taxpayer resident of the US, a corporation or other own tax advisers to determine whether they identification number and certifies that it entity taxable as a corporation created or are subject to any special rules which may is not subject to backup withholding.
The organised in or under the laws of the US, limit their ability to be taxed at these amount of any backup withholding from any state in the US or the District of favourable rates.
a payment to a US holder will be allowed Columbia, or an estate or trust, the income as a credit against the holders US federal of which is subject to US federal income Taxation on capital gains income tax liability and may entitle the taxation regardless of its source.
Under present English law, individuals who holder to a refund, provided that the are neither resident nor ordinarily resident required information is timely supplied This summary assumes that we are not, in the UK, and companies which are not to the US Internal Revenue Service IRS.
and will not become, a passive foreign resident in the UK, will not be liable for investment company, as discussed below.
UK tax on capital gains made on the Certain US holders who are individuals disposal of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, and under proposed US Treasury UK and US income taxation of unless such Ordinary Shares or ADRs regulations, certain entities, may be dividends are held in connection with a trade, required to report information relating The UK does not currently impose a profession or vocation carried on in the to securities issued by non-US persons withholding tax on dividends paid by UK through a branch or agency or other or foreign accounts through which the a UK company, such as the Company.
securities are held, generally on IRS Form 8938, subject to certain exceptions For US federal income tax purposes, A US holder will generally recognise US including an exception for securities held distributions paid by the Company to a US source capital gains or losses for US federal in accounts maintained by US financial holder are included in gross income as income tax purposes on the sale or institutions.
US holders should consult foreign source ordinary dividend income exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an their tax advisers regarding their reporting to the extent paid out of the Companys amount equal to the difference between the obligations with respect to the Ordinary current or accumulated earnings and profits, US dollar amount realised and such holders Shares or ADRs.
calculated in accordance with US federal US dollar tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or income tax principles.
US holders should consult their own AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 243 Additional Information Shareholder Information continued UK inheritance tax UK stamp duty reserve tax usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value Under the current Double Taxation Estates and stamp duty of the consideration.
Paperless transfers Convention the Estate Tax Convention A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp of Ordinary Shares within CREST are between the US and the UK, Ordinary duty reserve tax SDRT may arise on the generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% Shares or ADRs held by an individual deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection of the value of the consideration.
CREST shareholder who is domiciled for the with the creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp is obliged to collect SDRT from the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in duty or SDRT will generally be 1.5% of the purchaser on relevant transactions settled the US, and is not for the purposes of the value of the consideration or, in some within the system.
Estate Tax Convention a national of the circumstances, the value of the Ordinary UK, will generally not be subject to UK Shares.
There is no 1.5% SDRT charge Exchange controls and other inheritance tax on the individuals death or on the issue of Ordinary Shares or, where limitations affecting security holders on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares it is integral to the raising of new capital, There are no governmental laws, decrees or ADRs during the individuals lifetime, the transfer of Ordinary Shares into the or regulations in the UK restricting the provided that any applicable US federal gift ADR arrangement.
import or export of capital or affecting the or estate tax liability is paid, unless the remittance of dividends, interest or other Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of the No UK stamp duty will be payable on the payments to non-resident holders of business property of a permanent acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
establishment of the individual in the UK or, provided that any instrument of transfer or in the case of a shareholder who performs written agreement to transfer is executed There are no limitations under English law independent personal services, pertain to outside the UK and remains at all times or the Articles on the right of non-resident or a fixed base situated in the UK.
An agreement for the foreign owners to be the registered holders Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been placed transfer of ADRs will not give rise to a liability of, or to exercise voting rights in relation to, in trust by a settlor who, at the time of for SDRT.
Ordinary Shares or ADRs or to be registered settlement, was a US domiciled shareholder, holders of notes or debentures of Zeneca the Ordinary Shares or ADRs will generally A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer Wilmington Inc. or the Company.
not be subject to UK inheritance tax unless Ordinary Shares will generally be subject the settlor, at the time of settlement, was to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of the Exchange rates a UK national, or the Ordinary Shares or amount or value of any consideration, The following information relating to ADRs are part of the business property of provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is average and spot exchange rates used by a permanent establishment of the individual rounded to the nearest 5.
AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: in the UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent personal Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST services, pertain to a fixed base situated in will generally not be subject to stamp duty the UK.
In the exceptional case where the or SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for Ordinary Shares or ADRs are subject to a consideration in money or moneys worth, both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
SEK US$ US$ GBP Average rates statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows 2013 6.5089 1.5621 2014 6.7901 1.6532 2015 8.395033 1.53567 End of year spot rates statement of financial position 2013 6.4233 1.6502 2014 7.7451 1.5559 2015 8.41140 1.48165 Compliance requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Other than as set out below, the Company has nothing to report under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Item Location of details in Annual Report Details of any long-term incentive schemes Note 26 of the Financial Statements and Directors Remuneration Report Shareholder waiver of dividends Page 96 in the Corporate Governance Report 244 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
