Additional Information Marketed Products Respiratory, Inflammation Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide Farxiga Forxiga dapagliflozin is a and Autoimmunity formoterol in a dry powder inhaler is a selective inhibitor of human sodiumcombination of an inhaled corticosteroid glucose co-transporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitor and a fast onset, long-acting beta - indicated as an adjunct to diet and Accolate zafirlukast is an oral 2 agonist for the maintenance treatment of exercise to improve glycaemic control in leukotriene receptor antagonist for the asthma and COPD.
In asthma, it is also adult patients with Type 2 diabetes.
approved for Symbicort Maintenance And Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin and Bricanyl Respules terbutaline is a Reliever Therapy Symbicort SMART.
metformin hydrochloride extended short-acting betaagonist administered 2 Symbicort Turbuhaler is approved in release combines saxagliptin Onglyza via a nebuliser for acute treatment of Europe, Japan and many other countries and extended release metformin asthma and COPD in both children excluding the US.
metformin XR in a once-daily tablet and adults.
Bricanyl Turbuhaler terbutaline is a Cardiovascular and Komboglyze saxagliptin and metformin short-acting betaagonist for the acute 2 Metabolic diseases hydrochloride combines saxagliptin treatment of  Onglyza and metformin immediate symptoms in asthma and COPD.
Cardiovascular disease release metformin IR in a twice-daily Daliresp roflumilast is an oral PDE4 1 tablet for Type 2 diabetes.
Atacand Atacand HCT Atacand Plus phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor for adults candesartan cilexetil is an angiotensin II Onglyza saxagliptin is an oral with severe COPD to decrease their antagonist for the 1st line treatment dipeptidyl peptidase 4 DPP-4 inhibitor number of exacerbations US only.
of hypertension and symptomatic for Type 2 diabetes.
Duaklir Genuair aclidinium formoterol Symlin pramlintide acetate is an injected in a dry powder inhaler is a fixed dose Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor is an amylin analogue for Type 1 and Type 2 combination of a long-acting muscarinic oral antiplatelet for acute coronary diabetes in patients with inadequate antagonist LAMA and a long-acting syndromes ACS.
betaadrenergic receptor agonist LABA 2 2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is Xigduo dapagliflozin and metformin for the maintenance treatment of COPD.
a statin for dyslipidaemia and hydrochloride combines dapagliflozin Eklira Genuair Tudorza Bretaris hypercholesterolemia.
Farxiga Forxiga, an SGLT2 inhibitor, aclidinium in a dry powder inhaler is a and metformin IR, in a twice-daily Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist LAMA for the maintenance treatment tablet to improve glycaemic control for hypertension and angina.
in adult patients with Type 2 diabetes Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol who are inadequately controlled by Oxis Turbuhaler formoterol is a fast succinate is a beta-blocker once-daily metformin alone.
onset, long-acting betaagonist for the 2 tablet for control of hypertension, heart treatment of  Xigduo XR dapagliflozin and metformin failure and angina.
symptoms in asthma and COPD.
hydrochloride extended-release 3 Tenormin atenolol is a beta-blocker for combines dapagliflozin Farxiga Forxiga, Pulmicort Turbuhaler Pulmicort hypertension, angina pectoris and other an SGLT2 inhibitor, and metformin XR, in Flexhaler budesonide is an inhaled CV disorders.
a once-daily tablet to improve glycaemic corticosteroid for maintenance treatment 4 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate is an control in adult patients with Type 2 of asthma.
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor diabetes who are inadequately controlled Pulmicort Respules budesonide is for a wide range of CV diseases, including by metformin alone.
1 nebuliser, for the treatment of asthma Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. 2 L icensed from Shionogi.
The extension of the global licence in both children and adults.
Metabolic disease agreement with Shionogi for Crestor and the modification of the royalty structure became effective 1 January 2014.
Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid 3 Bydureon exenatide extended-release D ivested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen Pharma US Inc. treatment for allergic rhinitis hay fever, effective 9 January 2015. for injectable suspension is a once- 4 L icensed from Merck.
Divested US rights to Zestril to perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
weekly injectable glucagon-like peptide-1 Alvogen Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015.
GLP-1 receptor agonist available as a Symbicort pMDI budesonide single-dose tray or a single-dose pen formoterol in a pressurised metered-dose indicated to improve glycaemic control, inhaler is a combination of an inhaled in adults with Type 2 diabetes.
corticosteroid and a fast onset, longacting betaagonist for maintenance 2 Byetta exenatide injection is a twicetreatment of asthma and COPD, including daily injectable GLP-1 receptor agonist chronic bronchitis and emphysema in the indicated to improve glycaemic control in US, Australia and some other markets.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 203 Additional Information Marketed Products continued Oncology Infection, Neuroscience Movantik Moventig naloxegol is a and Gastrointestinal once-daily, peripherally-acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist approved for the Arimidex anastrozole is an aromatase Infection treatment of opioid-induced constipation inhibitor used to treat breast cancer.
It has OIC in adult patients.
The indication Fluenz FluMist influenza vaccine been shown to be significantly superior varies by jurisdiction.
live, intra-nasal is an intra-nasal, live, to tamoxifen at preventing breast cancer Naropin ropivacaine is a long-acting attenuated, trivalent influenza vaccine.
recurrence during and beyond the local anaesthetic for surgical anaesthesia 1 Fluenz Tetra FluMist Quadrivalent five-year treatment course.
influenza vaccine live, intra-nasal is an Casodex, Cosudex bicalutamide is Seroquel IR an immediate release intra-nasal, live, attenuated, quadrivalent an anti-androgen therapy used to treat formulation of quetiapine fumarate is an influenza vaccine.
A 50mg tablet is used atypical anti-psychotic generally approved 2 Merrem Meronem meropenem is a for advanced prostate cancer: a 150mg for the treatment of schizophrenia and carbapenem anti-bacterial used to treat tablet is used for locally advanced bipolar disorder mania, depression and serious infections in hospitalised patients.
3 Synagis palivizumab is a humanised Faslodex fulvestrant is an injectable Seroquel XR an extended release MAb used to prevent serious lower estrogen receptor antagonist.
It is used formulation of quetiapine fumarate respiratory tract disease caused by for the treatment of hormone receptor is generally approved for the treatment respiratory syncytial virus RSV in positive advanced breast cancer for of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, paediatric patients at high risk of post-menopausal women whose disease major depressive disorder and, on acquiring RSV disease.
has progressed following treatment with a more limited basis, for generalised prior endocrine therapy.
4 Zinforo ceftaroline fosamil is a anxiety disorder.
novel injectable cephalosporin used Iressa gefitinib is an epidermal growth 1 Vimovo naproxen esomeprazole in community-acquired pneumonia factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor magnesium is generally approved for and complicated skin and soft EGFR-TKI that acts to block signals symptomatic relief in the treatment of tissue infections.
for cancer cell growth and survival in rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and advanced non-small cell lung cancer 1 ankylosing spondylitis in patients at risk D aiichi Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz Tetra FluMist NSCLC.
of developing NSAID-associated gastric 2 L icensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Lynparza olaparib is an oral poly and or duodenal ulcers.
AbbVie holds rights to Synagis outside ADP-ribose polymerase PARP inhibitor.
Xylocaine lidocaine is a short-acting the US.
It is approved in the EU for the treatment 4 L icensed from Forest now a wholly-owned subsidiary of local anaesthetic for topical and of adult patients with platinum-sensitive Allergan.
AstraZeneca holds global rights, excluding the regional anaesthesia.
relapsed BRCA-mutated germline Zomig zolmitriptan is used for the acute and or somatic high-grade serous Neuroscience treatment of migraine, plus for the acute epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary treatment of cluster headache in the EU.
It is approved in the US Diprivan propofol is an intravenous Zomig is available in three formulations: for the treatment of patients with germline general anaesthetic used to induce and oral tablet: orally dispersible tablet: and BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer maintain general anaesthesia, intensive nasal spray.
who have been treated with three or more care sedation and conscious sedation for prior lines of chemotherapy.
Divested US rights to Horizon Pharma USA, Inc. effective 22 November 2013.
Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate is a widely EMLA lidocaine and prilocaine is a used breast cancer treatment outside local anaesthetic for topical application Gastrointestinal the US.
cream and patch to prevent pain associated with injections and minor Losec Prilosec omeprazole is a Tagrisso osimertinib is an EGFR-TKI surgical procedures, and to facilitate proton pump inhibitor used to treat indicated for patients with metastatic cleansing debridement of leg ulcers.
Nexium esomeprazole magnesium Zoladex goserelin acetate implant in one is a proton pump inhibitor used to treat and three month subcutaneous or acid-related diseases.
intra-muscular injections, is a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone LHRH agonist used to treat prostate cancer, breast cancer and certain benign gynaecological disorders.
204 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015
