Additional Information Glossary Market definitions Region Country US US Europe Albania Czech Republic Hungary Luxembourg Serbia and Montenegro Austria Denmark Iceland Malta Slovakia Belgium Estonia Ireland Netherlands Slovenia Bosnia and Herzegovina Finland Israel Norway Spain Bulgaria France Italy Poland Sweden Croatia Germany Latvia Portugal Switzerland Cyprus Greece Lithuania Romania UK Established ROW Australia Japan Canada New Zealand Emerging Markets Algeria Costa Rica Iraq Other Africa Sudan Argentina Cuba Jamaica Pakistan Syria Aruba Dominican Republic Jordan Palestine Taiwan Bahamas Ecuador Kazakhstan Panama Thailand Bahrain Egypt Kuwait Peru Trinidad and Tobago Barbados El Salvador Lebanon Philippines Tunisia Belarus Georgia Libya Qatar Turkey Belize Guatemala Malaysia Russia Ukraine Bermuda Honduras Mexico Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates Brazil Hong Kong Morocco Singapore Uruguay Chile India Netherlands Antilles South Africa Venezuela China Indonesia Nicaragua South Korea Vietnam Colombia Iran Oman Sri Lanka Yemen IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2015 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2015 of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
North America means US and Canada.
Other Established ROW means Australia and New Zealand.
Other Emerging Markets means all Emerging Markets except China.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of comprehensive income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 247 Additional Information Glossary continued The following abbreviations and expressions CEO the Chief Executive Officer of the gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by have the following meanings when used in this Company.
which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated Annual Report: by dividing the difference between the two by the CER constant exchange rates.
CFDA China Food and Drug Administration.
Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
AbbVie AbbVie Inc. CFO the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
ACA Affordable Care Act the Patient CHMP the Committee for Medicinal Products Protection and Affordable Care Act which was Gulf Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar for Human Use.
signed into law on 23 March 2010 as amended and the United Arab Emirates.
CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Heptares Heptares Ltd. Act which was signed into law on 30 March 2010.
Code of Conduct the Groups Code HHA Healthy Heart Africa programme.
Acerta Pharma Acerta Pharma B. V. HR human resources.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca ACS Acute Coronary Syndrome.
PLC formerly Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
IA the Groups Internal Audit Services function.
COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
ADC Therapeutics ADC Therapeutics Srl.
Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA the IAS 19 IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt agreement described in the US Corporate IAS 32 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: evidencing title to an ADS.
Integrity Agreement reporting section on Presentation.
ADS an American Depositary Share page 50.
IAS 39 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
AGM an Annual General Meeting CVMD Cardiovascular and Metabolic diseases.
IASB International Accounting of the Company.
Aegerion Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Daiichi Sankyo Daiichi Sankyo, Inc. IFRS International Financial Reporting Almirall Almirall, S. A.
Standards or International Financial Reporting Definiens Definiens AG.
Amgen Amgen, Inc. Standard, as the context requires.
Director a director of the Company.
Amplimmune Amplimmune, Inc. IFRS 8 IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
DOJ the United States Department of Justice.
Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC formerly IMED Innovative Medicines and Early earnings per share EPS profit for the year Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. Development.
after tax and non-controlling interests, divided by ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, Immunocore Immunocore Limited.
the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares which is a marketing approval application for a in issue during the year.
Innate Pharma Innate Pharma S. A. generic drug submitted to the FDA.
Annual Report this Annual Report and Form EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical IS information services.
ISAs International Standards on Auditing.
EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor.
Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. EMA European Medicines Agency.
Articles the Articles of Association of the EPO European Patent Office.
Krona or SEK references to the currency EVP Executive Vice-President.
Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. EU the European Union.
Kyowa Hakko Kirin Kyowa Hakko Kirin Astra Astra AB, being the company with whom Co. Ltd. the Company merged in 1999.
LCM projects significant life-cycle AstraZeneca the Company and its FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, management projects as determined by potential subsidiaries.
which is part of the US Department of Health and revenue generation, or line extensions.
Human Services Agency, which is the regulatory AZIP AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
authority for all pharmaceuticals including Lean means enhancing value for customers BACE beta secretase cleaving enzyme.
biologics and vaccines and medical devices in with fewer resources.
biologic s a class of drugs that are produced the US.
Lilly Eli Lilly and Company.
FibroGen FibroGen, Inc. LTI long-term incentive, in the context of share biosimilars a copy of a biologic that is Forest Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
sufficiently similar to meet regulatory FRC Financial Reporting Council.
MAA a marketing authorisation application, requirements.
which is an application for authorisation to place GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
medical products on the market.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
term used in the EU and European Economic GMD Global Medicines Development.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
GPPS Global Product and Portfolio Strategy.
MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is Celgene Celgene International Srl.
specific, that is, it binds to and attacks one particular antigen.
248 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Additional Information major market US, EU, Japan and China.
Phase II the phase of clinical research Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley which includes the controlled clinical activities Act of 2002.
conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the SEC the US Securities and Exchange MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly drug in patients with the disease under study and Commission, the governmental agency that MedImmune, Inc.. to begin to determine the safety profile of the regulates the US securities industry and stock drug.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. markets.
small or medium sized groups of patients and formerly Merck & Co. Inc.. Seroquel Seroquel IR and Seroquel XR.
can be divided into Phase IIa studies, which tend MI myocardial infarction.
to be designed to assess dosing requirements, SET Senior Executive Team.
and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess Moderna Therapeutics Moderna SG&A costs selling, general and safety and efficacy.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which Myriad Myriad Genetics, Inc. SGLT2 sodium-glucose co-transporter 2. is performed to gather additional information NDA a new drug application to the FDA for about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often Shionogi Shionogi & Co. Ltd. approval to market a new medicine in the US.
in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall SLE systemic lupus erythematosus.
benefit risk profile of the drug.
Phase III studies NME new molecular entity.
usually include between several hundred and SPC supplementary protection certificate.
specialty care specific healthcare provided NSAID a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.
by medical specialists who do not generally have NSCLC non-small cell lung cancer.
PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices NSTE-ACS non-ST-Elevation acute coronary Agency of Japan.
Takeda Takeda Pharmaceutical Company NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
pound sterling, GBP or pence references n m not meaningful.
Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Pozen POZEN, Inc. Omthera Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Total Revenue the sum of Product Sales and Externalisation Revenue.
operating profit sales, less cost of sales, primary care general healthcare provided by less operating costs, plus operating income.
physicians who ordinarily have first contact with TSR total shareholder return, being the total patients and who may have continuing care return on a share over a period of time, including Ordinary Share an ordinary share of for them.
$0.25 each in the share capital of the Company.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Orphan Drug a drug which has been candidate drug results in a clinical change on an Northern Ireland.
approved for use in a relatively low-incidence acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with indication an orphan indication and has been UK Corporate Governance Code the UK the disease.
rewarded with a period of market exclusivity: the Corporate Governance Code published by the period of exclusivity and the available orphan PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
FRC in September 2014 that sets out standards indications vary between markets.
of good practice in corporate governance for PTE Patent Term Extension, an extension the UK.
of up to five years in the term of a US patent relating to a drug which compensates for delays US United States of America.
Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a six-month in marketing resulting from the need to obtain period of exclusivity to market a drug which US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the FDA approval.
The analogous right in the EU is awarded by the FDA in return for certain currency of the US.
paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
This Valeant Valeant Holdings Ireland Valeant six-month period runs from the date of relevant Qiagen Qiagen Manchester Limited.
Pharmaceutical International Inc. patent expiry.
Analogous provisions are available R&D research and development.
in certain other territories such as European Ventana Ventana Medical Systems, Inc.
Redeemable Preference Share a Supplementary Protection Certificate SPC WHO World Health Organization, the United redeemable preference share of 1 each in the paediatric extensions.
Nations specialised agency for health.
share capital of the Company.
Regulatory Data Protection RDP see the Pearl Therapeutics Pearl Therapeutics, Inc.
Intellectual Property section on page 60.
ZS Pharma ZS Pharma, Inc. Pfizer Pfizer, Inc. Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights PhRMA Pharmaceutical Research and arising from generation of clinical data and Manufacturers of America.
includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric Exclusivity and Orphan Drug status.
Phase I the phase of clinical research where Roche F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG.
a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups of people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can RSV respiratory syncytial virus.
achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, Sanofi SANOFI S. A. determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects.
This phase includes healthy volunteer studies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 249
