Financial statements Financial statements | Significant accounting policies | 101 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 Associated British Foods plc the The estimates and underlying Basis of consolidation Company is a company domiciled in assumptions are reviewed on a regular The consolidated financial statements the United Kingdom.
Revisions to accounting estimates include the results of the Company financial statements of the Company for are recognised from the period in which and all of its subsidiaries from the date the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 the estimates arerevised.
that control commences to the date comprise those of the Company and that control ceases.
The consolidated The accounting policies set out below its subsidiaries together referred to as financial statements also include the have been applied to all periods presented, the group and the groups interest in groups share of the after-tax results, except where detailed otherwise.
other comprehensive income and net Details of new accounting standards assets of its joint arrangements and The financial statements were which came into force in the year are associates on an equity-accounted authorised for issue by the directors set out at the end of this note.
basis from the point at which joint on 3 November 2015. control or significant influence The consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements respectively commences, to the of the group are prepared to the Saturday have been prepared and approved by the date that it ceases.
Accordingly, directors in accordance with International these financial statements have been Subsidiaries are entities controlled Financial Reporting Standards as adopted prepared for the 52weeks ended by the Company.
Control exists when by the EU AdoptedIFRS.
To avoid delay the Company has the power, directly The Company has elected to prepare in the preparation of the consolidated or indirectly, to direct the activities its parent company financial statements financial statements, the results of of an entity so as to significantly under UK Generally Accepted Accounting certain subsidiaries, joint arrangements affect the returns of that entity.
These are presented on pages and associates are included up to Changes in the groups ownership 147 to 151.
The results of interest in a subsidiary that do not Illovo are included for the period to Basis of preparation result in a loss of control are accounted 30September each year in line with The going concern basis has been applied for within equity.
The consolidated are made as appropriate for significant All the groups joint arrangements financial statements are presented in transactions or events occurring are joint ventures, which are entities sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
between 12September and these over whose activities the group has They are prepared on the historical cost other balance sheet dates.
joint control, typically established by basis except that biological assets and contractual agreement and requiring certain financial instruments are stated The groups business activities, together the venturers unanimous consent at fair value.
Assets classified as held with the factors likely to affect its future for strategic financial and for sale are stated at the lower of carrying development, performance and position operating decisions.
amount and fair value less costs tosell.
are set out in the Strategic report on pages 6 to 45.
The financial position Associates are those entities in which The preparation of financial statements of the group, its cash flows, liquidity the group has significant influence, being under Adopted IFRS requires position and borrowing facilities are the power to participate in the financial management to make judgements, described in the Financial review on and operating policy decisions of the estimates and assumptions about the pages 46 and 47.
In addition, the Principal entity, but which does not amount to reported amounts of assets and liabilities, risks and uncertainties on pages 56 to control or joint control.
income and expenses and the disclosure 59 and note 24 on pages 129 to 138 of contingent assets and liabilities.
The Where the groups share of losses provide details of the groups policy estimates and associated assumptions are exceeds its interest in a joint venture on managing its financial and based on experience.
Actual results may or associate, the carrying amount is commodity risks.
Judgements reduced to zero and recognition of made by management in the application The group has considerable financial further losses is discontinued except of Adopted IFRS that have a significant resources, good access to debt markets, to the extent that the group has incurred effect on the financial statements, a diverse range of businesses and a legal or constructive obligations or and estimates with a significant risk wide geographic spread.
It is therefore made payments on behalf of of material adjustment next year, are well placed to manage business an investee.
discussed in Accounting estimates risks successfully.
and judgements detailed on page 106.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements | Significant accounting policies | 102 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 Control, joint control and significant Contingent consideration is measured Exceptional items influence are generally assessed by at fair value at the date of the business Exceptional items are defined as items reference to equity shareholdings and combination, classified as a liability of income and expenditure which are voting rights.
The group owns a 51% or equity usually as a liability, and material and unusual in nature and stake in Illovo, which itself owns majority subsequently accounted for in line with which are considered to be of such stakes in its non-South African businesses.
Changes in contingent significance that they require separate Although the groups ultimate interest consideration classified as a liability disclosure on the face of the in these non-South African businesses resulting other than from the finalisation income statement.
is less than 50%, they are consolidated of provisional fair values are accounted Adjusted profit and as they are subsidiaries of a subsidiary.
for in the income statement.
earnings measures See note 28 for further details.
Revenue Adjusted operating profit is stated Business combinations Revenue represents the value of sales before amortisation of non-operating On the acquisition of a business, fair made to customers after deduction of intangibles, profits less losses on values are attributed to the identifiable discounts, sales taxes and a provision for disposal of non-current assets and assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities returns.
Discounts include sales rebates, exceptional items.
Adjusted profit before acquired, reflecting conditions at the price discounts, customer incentives, tax is stated before amortisation of date of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair certain promotional activities and similar non-operating intangibles, profits less values include those made to bring items.
Revenue does not include sales losses on disposal of non-current assets, accounting policies into line with those between group companies.
Revenue is profits less losses on sale and closure of the group.
Provisional fair values recognised when the risks and rewards of businesses and exceptional items.
are finalised within 12 months of the of the underlying products have been Both measures are shown on the face business combination date and, where substantially transferred to the customer of the income statement.
significant, are adjusted by restatement and when it can be measured reliably.
Adjusted earnings per share is shown in of the comparative period in which the In the food businesses, revenue from the notes and is stated before amortisation acquisition occurred.
Non-controlling the sale of goods is generally recognised of non-operating intangibles, profits less interests are measured at the proportionate on dispatch or delivery to customers, losses on disposal of non-current assets, share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Discounts profits less losses on sale and closure Existing equity interests in the acquiree and returns are provided for as a reduction of businesses and exceptional items are remeasured to fair value as at the to revenue when sales are recorded, together with the related tax effect.
date of the business combination, based on managements best estimate Foreign currencies with any resulting gain or loss taken of the amount required to meet claims In individual companies, transactions to the incomestatement.
by customers, taking into account in foreign currencies are recorded at contractual and legal obligations, Goodwill arising on a business the rate of exchange at the date of the historical trends and past experience.
combination is the excess of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities remeasured carrying amount of any In the retail business, revenue from in foreign currencies are translated at the existing equity interest plus the fair value the sale of goods is recognised when rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
of consideration payable for the additional the customer purchases goods in-store.
Any resulting differences are taken to stake over the fair value of the share Returns are provided for as a reduction the income statement.
of net identifiable assets and liabilities to revenue when sales are recorded, On consolidation, assets and liabilities of acquired including separately identified based on managements best estimate foreign operations that are denominated intangible assets, net of non-controlling of the amount required to meet claims in foreign currencies are translated into interests.
Total consideration does not by customers, taking into account sterling at the rate of exchange at the include acquisition costs, which are historical trends and past experience.
Income and expense expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs items are translated into sterling at Borrowing costs are accounted for weighted average rates of exchange.
using the effective interest method.
Differences arising from the retranslation The group capitalises borrowing costs of opening net assets of group companies, directly attributable to the acquisition, together with differences arising from construction or production of qualifying the restatement of the net results of items of property, plant and equipment group companies from average rates to as part of their cost.
Interest capitalised rates at the balance sheet date, are taken is taxed under current or deferred tax to the translation reserve inequity.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Financial statements | Significant accounting policies | 103 Pensions and other postIncome tax available-for-sale investments measured employment benefits Income tax on profit or loss for the period at market prices where available.
Where The groups principal pension schemes comprises current and deferred tax.
quoted market prices in an active market are defined benefit plans.
In addition Income tax is recognised in the income are not available, and where fair value the group has defined contribution plans statement except to the extent that it cannot be reliably measured, unquoted and other unfunded post-employment relates to items taken directly to other equity instruments are measured at liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the comprehensive income.
amount charged in the income statement Current tax is the tax expected to be Cash and cash equivalents is the cost of benefits accruing to payable on taxable income for the year, Cash and cash equivalents comprise employees over the year, plus any benefit using tax rates enacted or substantively bank and cash balances, call deposits improvements granted tomembers by enacted during the period, together with and short-term investments with original the group during the year.
It also includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect maturities of three months or less.
Bank net interest expense or income calculated of previous years.
overdrafts that are repayable on demand by applying the liability discount rate to and form an integral part of the groups cash the net pension asset or liability.
For each Deferred tax is provided using the management are included as a component plan, the difference between market balance sheet liability method, providing of cash and cash equivalents for the value of assets and present value of for temporary differences between the purpose of the cash flow statement.
liabilities is disclosed as an asset or carrying amounts of assets and liabilities liability in the balancesheet.
for financial reporting purposes and the Derivatives amounts used for taxation purposes.
Derivatives are used to manage the Any related deferred tax to the extent The following temporary differences are groups economic exposure to financial recoverable is disclosed separately in not provided for: initial recognition of and commodity risks.
The principal the balance sheet.
Remeasurements goodwill: initial recognition of assets or instruments used are foreign exchange are recognised immediately in other liabilities affecting neither accounting nor and commodity contracts, futures, swaps comprehensive income.
Surpluses taxable profit other than those acquired in or options the hedging instrument.
are recognised only to the extent that a business combination: and differences The group does not use derivatives for they are recoverable.
Movements in relating to investments in subsidiaries speculative purposes.
irrecoverable surpluses are recognised to the extent that they will probably not immediately as remeasurement in Derivatives are recognised in the reverse in the foreseeable future.
balance sheet, at fair value, based on amount of deferred tax provided is based market prices or rates, or calculated Contributions payable by the group in on the expected manner of realisation using either discounted cash flow or respect of defined contribution plans are or settlement of the carrying amount option pricing models.
charged to operating profit as incurred.
of assets and liabilities, using tax rates Other unfunded post-employment enacted or substantively enacted at the Changes in the value of derivatives are liabilities are accounted for in the same balance sheet date.
recognised in the income statement way as defined benefit pension plans.
unless they qualify for hedge accounting, A deferred tax asset is recognised only when recognition of any change in fair Share-based payments to the extent that it is probable that future value depends on the nature of the item The fair value of share awards at grant taxable profits will be available against being hedged.
date is recognised as an employee which the asset can be utilised.
expense with a corresponding increase The purpose of hedge accounting is Additional income taxes that arise in equity, spread over the period during to mitigate the impact on the groups from the distribution of dividends are which the employees become income statement of changes in foreign recognised at the same time as the unconditionally entitled to the shares.
exchange or interest rates and commodity liability to pay the related dividend.
The amount recognised is adjusted prices, by matching the impact of the to reflect expected and actual levels Financial assets and liabilities hedged risk and the hedging instrument of vesting except where the failure Financial assets and financial liabilities, in the income statement.
to vest is as a result of not meeting except for other non-current investments Changes in the value of derivatives a marketcondition.
and derivatives, are measured initially used as hedges of future cash flows are atfair value, plus directly attributable recognised through other comprehensive transaction costs, and thereafter income in the hedging reserve, with at amortised cost.
Other non-current any ineffective portion recognised investments classified under other immediately in the income statement.
non-current receivables comprise Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements | Significant accounting policies | 104 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the 52 weeks ended 12 September 2015 When the future cash flow results in Amortisation is charged to the income Calculation of recoverable amount the recognition of a non-financial asset statement on a straight-line basis over the The recoverable amount of assets is or liability, the gains and losses previously estimated useful lives of intangible assets the greater of their fair value less costs recognised in the hedging reserve are from the date they are available for use.
to sell and their value in use.
In assessing included in the initial measurement of The estimated useful lives are generally value in use, estimated future cash that asset or liability.
Otherwise, gains deemed to be no longer than: flows are discounted to present value and losses previously recognised in the using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects Technology and brands up to 15 years hedging reserve are recognised in the current market assessments of the Customer relationships up to 5 years income statement at the same time time value of money and the risks Grower agreements up to 10 years as the hedged transaction.
For an asset that Goodwill does not generate largely independent Hedge accounting is discontinued when Goodwill is defined under Business cash inflows, recoverable amount is the hedging instrument expires or is combinations on page 102.
Certain determined for the CGU to which sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer commercial assets associated with the the asset belongs.
At that acquisition of a business are not capable time, any cumulative gain or loss on Reversals of impairment of being recognised in the acquisition the hedging instrument recognised An impairment charge in respect of balance sheet.
In such circumstances, in the hedging reserve is retained in goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
goodwill is recognised, which may the hedging reserve until the forecast For other assets, an impairment charge include, but is not necessarily limited transaction occurs.
Gains or losses is reversed if there has been a change to, workforce assets and the benefits on hedging instruments relating to an in the estimates used to determine the of expected future synergies.
underlying exposure that no longer exists recoverable amount, but only to the are taken to the incomestatement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is subject extent that the new carrying amount to an annual impairment review.
does not exceed the carrying amount Hedges of the groups net investment in that would have been determined, foreign operations principally comprise Research and development net of depreciation or amortisation, borrowings in the currency of the Research expenditure is expensed as if no impairment charge had investments netassets.
Development expenditure is been recognised.
capitalised if the product or process is The group economically hedges foreign technically and commercially feasible Property, plant and equipment currency exposure on recognised but is otherwise expensed as incurred.
Items of property, plant and equipment monetary assets and liabilities but does Capitalised development expenditure are stated at cost less accumulated not normally seek hedge accounting.
is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment charges.
Any derivatives that the group holds to amortisation and impairment charges.
hedge this exposure are classified as Depreciation is charged to the income held for trading within derivative assets Impairment statement on a straight-line basis over and liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of The carrying amounts of the groups the estimated useful lives of items of such derivatives and the foreign exchange intangible assets and property, plant and property, plant and equipment sufficient gains and losses arising on the related equipment are reviewed at each balance to reduce them to estimated residual monetary items are recognised within sheet date to determine whether there is value.
If any such Estimated useful lives are generally indication exists, the assets recoverable deemed to be no longer than: Intangible assets other amount is estimated.
For goodwill and Freehold buildings 66 years than goodwill intangibles without a finite life, the Plant and equipment, fixtures Non-operating intangible assets are recoverable amount is estimated at and fittings intangible assets that arise on business each balance sheet date.
sugar factories, yeast plants, combinations and typically include mills and bakeries 20 years technology, brands, customer An impairment charge is recognised other operations 12 years relationships and grower agreements.
in the income statement whenever Vehicles 10 years Operating intangible assets are acquired the carrying amount of an asset or its in the ordinary course of business and cash-generating unit CGU exceeds typically include computer software, land its recoverable amount.
use rights and emissions trading licences.
Impairment charges recognised in respect Intangible assets other than goodwill of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the are stated at cost less accumulated carrying amount of any goodwill allocated amortisation and impairment charges.
to that CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro ratabasis.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Financial statements | Significant accounting policies | 105 Leases Inventories IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts A lease is an agreement whereby the Inventories are stated at the lower with Customers effective 2018 lessor conveys to the lessee, in return of cost and net realisable value.
Cost financial year not yet endorsed for a payment or a series of payments, includes raw materials, direct labour and by the EU : and the right to use a specific asset for expenses and an appropriate proportion Amendments to IAS 16 Property, an agreed period of time.
of production and other overheads, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
Where the group is a lessee and has Agriculture effective 2017 financial substantially all the risks and rewards of Inventories for the retail businesses year, which changes the accounting ownership of an asset, the arrangement are valued at the lower of cost and net requirements for bearer plants is considered a finance lease.
Finance realisable value using the retail method, cane roots, in the case of the group leases are recognised as assets of calculated on the basis of selling price not yet endorsed by the EU.
the group within property, plant and less appropriate trading margin.
All retail equipment at the inception of the lease inventories are finished goods.
at the lower of fair value and the present New accounting policies value of the minimum lease payments.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Depreciation on leased assets is charged Entities is applied for the first time in 2015. to the income statement on the same It requires disclosure of information on the basis as owned assets.
Payments made groups economic interests.
The new and under finance leases are apportioned amended disclosures are given principally between capital repayments and interest in notes 28 and 11. expense charged to the income statement.
Other leases where the group is a lessee The group has adopted the following are treated as operating leases.
Payments new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC made under operating leases are interpretations with no material impact recognised in the income statement on apart from minor disclosure changes a straight-line basis over the term of the all effective from 14 September 2014 : lease, as is the benefit of lease incentives.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Where the group is a lessor under an Financial Statements: operating lease, the asset is capitalised IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: within property, plant and equipment and depreciated over its useful economic Annual Improvements to IFRSs life.
Payments received under operating 20102012 and 20112013: and leases are recognised in the income IAS 28 Investments in Associates statement on a straight-line basis over and Joint Ventures.
The group is also assessing the impact Biological assets of the following revised standards and Biological assets are measured at fair interpretations or amendments that value less costs to sell.
Cane roots and are not yet effective.
Where already growing cane are stated at fair value endorsed by the EU, these changes will on the following bases: be adopted on the effective dates noted.
Cane roots escalated average cost, Where not yet endorsed by the EU, the using appropriate inflation-related indices, adoption date is less certain.
The impact of each year of planting adjusted for of these standards is currently under remaining expected life.
review all effective from 13 September 2015 unless otherwise stated : Growing cane estimated sucrose content valued at estimated sucrose price for the Annual Improvements to IFRSs following season, less estimated costs 20122014 effective 2017 for harvesting and transport.
financial year: When harvested, growing cane is IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: transferred to inventory at fair value Classification and Measurement less costs to sell.
effective 2019 financial year not yet endorsed by the EU : Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
