Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 124 Directors report continued The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share Events after the reporting period which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may There have been no reportable events from the balance sheet not be exercised in a way which the Financial Conduct Authority date to the date of this report.
regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant Internal controls class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a managing significant risks throughout the year to 31 March share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
2015 and up to the date of the approval of the financial The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the statements for that year.
In respect of our financial reporting transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions process and the process for preparing our consolidated that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations accounts, management monitors the processes underpinning for example, insider trading laws.
the Groups financial reporting systems through regular reporting and review, and data for consolidation into the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Groups financial statements are reviewed by management shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer to ensure that they reflect a true and fair view of the Groups of securities or voting rights in the Company.
results in compliance with applicable accounting policies.
At the date of this report 502,196,597 ordinary shares of The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, reviews 60p each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted the effectiveness of the Companys internal control processes on the London Stock Exchange.
formally at least once a year.
The Board considers the system Annual General Meeting to be effective and in accordance with Internal Controls: Details of the 2015 Annual General Meeting of the Company Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull are set out on page 79.
Further information on the principal internal controls in use in the Company is to be found on pages 60 to 69.
Directors duty to avoid conflicts of interest The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the Auditors disclosure, review, authorisation and management of Directors  LLP is willing to continue in office conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest in as independent auditor of the Company, and a resolution to accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A discussion of the Groups position on audit tenders The procedure requires Directors formally to notify the Board is set out on page 85 of this report.
via the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest with their duties Disclosure of relevant audit information to the Company or of any material change in existing actual or So far as the Directors who are in office at the time of the potential conflicts that may have been authorised by the Board.
approval of this report are aware, there is no relevant audit Notified actual or potential conflicts will be reviewed by the information namely, information needed by the Companys Board as soon as possible.
The Board will consider whether auditors in connection with the preparation of their auditors a conflict or potential conflict does, in fact, exist and, if so, report of which the auditors are unaware.
Each such Director whether it is in the interest of the Company that it be authorised has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a and, if so, on what terms.
In making their judgement on this, Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any the other Directors must have regard to their general duties to relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors the Company.
A register is maintained for the Board of all such are aware of that information.
disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
Directors responsibility statement Authorisations may be revoked, or the terms on which they The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report were given varied, at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any and Accounts including the Groups and the Companys financial event be reviewed annually by the Board.
In the event of any statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
actual conflict arising in respect of any matter, mitigating action would also be considered for example, non-attendance of the UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Director concerned at all or part of Board meetings and statements for each financial year.
In accordance with that law, non-circulation to him of relevant papers.
the Directors have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Going concern IFRS as adopted in the European Union, and the Companys After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Groups and the Companys in operational existence for the forseeable future.
For this financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and preparing the financial statements.
of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: Governance 125 select suitable accounting policies and then apply In addition, each of the directors listed below considers that them consistently: the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and make judgements and accounting estimates that are understandable and provides the information necessary for reasonable and prudent: shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business state, for the Group financial statements, whether applicable model and strategy.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, Mike Turner Chairman subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Peter Rogers Chief Executive the financial statements: Franco Martinelli Group Finance Director state, for the Companys financial statements, whether Archie Bethel CEO, Marine and Technology applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Kevin Thomas CEO, Support Services in the Companys financial statements: and Bill Tame CEO, International prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, John Davies CEO, Defence and Security unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company Sir David Omand Non-Executive Director will continue in business.
Ian Duncan Non-Executive Director The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Kate Swann Non-Executive Director records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Anna Stewart Non-Executive Director transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Jeff Randall Non-Executive Director the financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements and Myles Lee Non-Executive Director the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and that the Approval of the Strategic report and the Companys financial statements comply with the Companies Directors report Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets The Strategic report and the Directors report pages 2 to 125 of the Group and the Company, and hence for taking for the year ending 31 March 2015 have been approved by reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and the Board and signed on its behalf by other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with the law and those regulations.
Mike Turner CBE The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Chairman of the corporate and financial information included on the 18 May 2015 Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors listed below being the Board of Directors at the date of this Annual Report and these financial statements confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group financial statements set out on pages 133 to 182 which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and the Strategic report and Directors report contained on pages 2 to 125 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
