Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 154 Notes to the Group accounts continued 25.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The Group measures goodwill as the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred, including the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, less the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent liabilities as required by IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Consideration transferred includes the fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred by the Group to the previous owners of the acquiree, equity interests issued by the Group, contingent consideration, and share-based payment awards of the acquiree that are replaced in the business combination.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent consideration that is not classied as equity are recognised in the income statement.
Transaction costs that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination, such as nders fees, legal fees, due diligence fees, and other professional and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred.
Subsidiaries acquired during 2015 In June, the Group completed the acquisition of Eclipse Electronic Systems, Inc. a provider of advanced Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance products and services, for cash consideration of $8m 5m.
Subsidiaries disposed of during 2015 In April, the Group completed the sale of its 75% holding in BAE Systems Land Systems South Africa Pty Limited for cash consideration of 655million Rand 36m.
m m Cash consideration 36 Transaction costs paid 2 Cash proceeds 34 Net assets disposed: Intangible assets 19 Property, plant and equipment 9 Inventories 7 Trade and other receivables 9 Deferred tax assets 3 Cash and cash equivalents 13 Trade and other payables 8 Deferred tax liabilities 2 Provisions 6 44 Non-controlling interest disposed 6 Cumulative currency translation loss 20 Loss on disposal of businesses 24 Subsidiaries acquired during 2014 In 2014, the Group acquired Perimeter Internetworking Corp. trading as SilverSky: an additional 59% shareholding in Saudi Development and Training Company: and Signal Innovations Group, Inc. For all acquisitions made during 2014, there were no adjustments made in 2015 to the provisional fair values.
