Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 112 Notes to the Group accounts 1.
Segmental analysis Revenue and profit recognition Sales include the Groups share of sales of equity accounted investments.
Revenue represents sales made by the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, excluding the Groups share of sales of equity accounted investments.
Long-term contracts The majority of the Groups long-term contract arrangements are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction Contracts.
Sales are recognised when the Group has obtained the right to consideration in exchange for its performance.
This is usually when title passes or a separately identiable phase milestone of a contract or development has been completed.
No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated.
profit is calculated by reference to reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately as an expense.
Goods sold and services rendered Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
Revenue from the sale of goods not under a long-term contract is recognised in the income statement when the significant risks and rewards ofownership have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration is probable, there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue and costs can be measured reliably.
profit is recognised at the time of sale.
Revenue from the provision of services not under a long-term contract is recognised in the income statement in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract at the reporting date.
The stage of completion is measured on the basis of direct expenses incurred as a percentage of total expenses to be incurred for material contracts and labour hours delivered as a percentage of total labour hours to be delivered for timecontracts.
Sales and profits on intercompany trading are determined on an arms length basis.
Research and development The Group undertakes research and development activities either on its own behalf or on behalf of customers.
Where the research and development activity is performed on behalf of customers, the revenue arising is recognised in the income statement inaccordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy.
Key Performance Indicator Underlying EBITA Management uses an underlying profit measure to monitor the year-on-year profitability of the Group, which is dened as earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items dened as items that are relevant to an understanding of the Groups performance with reference to their materiality and nature.
This denition is referred to as underlying EBITA.
Underlying EBITA is the measure of profit on which segmental performance is monitored by management.
As such, underlying EBITA is disclosed on page 115 on a segmental basis and reconciled to the reporting segment result and operating profit in the consolidated financial statements.
Non-recurring items In 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 75% holding in BAE Systems Land Systems South Africa Pty Limited, resulting ina loss on disposal of businesses of 24m.
In 2013, UK legislation changed so that UK government credits for research and development spend are now accounted for as part of operating protrather than as part of taxation expense.
This treatment was optional for the first three years.
During 2015, the Group exercised that option, effective from 2013, and has reected this change in the 2015 accounts.
The credits relating to 2013 and 2014, totalling 50m, are included in non-recurring items in 2015.
In 2014, there were two equal and opposite non-recurring items, a fair value gain see note 4 and an impairment loss see note 9.
