Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 179 Shareholder information Financial calendar Unsolicited telephone calls 2016 In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited 19 May Annual General Meeting telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters 19 May Ex-dividend date for July 2016 preference dividend from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have 20 May July 2016 preference dividend record date some connection with the Company.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to 1 July Preference dividend payable sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in 17 August Announcement of 2016 half-year results UK or overseas investments.
Shareholders are advised tobe very Provisional date.
wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount oroffersof free reports on the Company.
Registrars All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: to receive corporate documents by email should, inthe first always ensure the firm is on the FinancialConduct Authority FCA instance, be directed to the Companys Registrars and clearly state Register and is allowed to give financial advice before handing yourregistered address and, if available, your shareholder reference over your money.
do Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34Beckenham Road, double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are ask Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 from the for their name and telephone number and say you will call them UK calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access back.
Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact charge and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK Monday to numberlisted on the FCA Register.
If there are no contact details Friday 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you can email: on the FCA Register or you are told that they are out of date, Shareholderenquiries@capita.
or if you have any other doubts, call the FCA Consumer Helpline They can help you to: check your shareholding: register a change on 0800111 6768 of address or name: obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax check the FCAs list of known unauthorised overseas firms at voucher: record the death ofa shareholder.
However, these firms change names regularly, so even if a firmis not listed, it does not mean they are Dividends and dividend reinvestmentplan legitimate.
Always check that they arelisted on the FCA Register Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
if you are approached about a share scam, you should inform the The Registrars can provide a dividend mandate form.
A dividend FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk reinvestment plan DRIP is offered which allows holders of ordinary consumers scams report-scam share-fraud-form, where youcan shares to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares also find out about the latest investment scams or alternatively, through a specially arranged share dealing service.
Full details you can call the FCA Consumer Helpline seeabove.
If you use of theDRIP and its charges, together withmandate forms, are an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, available at www.
you will not have access tothe Financial Ombudsman Service orbe eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services International payment service Compensation Scheme if things go wrong Shareholders outside the UK may elect toreceive dividends you should also report any approach toAction Fraud, who are the direct into their overseas bank account, or by currency draft, UKs national fraud reporting centre at www.
uk, instead of by sterling cheque.
For further information, contact or by calling0300 123 2040. theCompanys Registrars on 44 20 8639 3405 from outside the UK or 0871 664 0385 from the UK calls cost 12p per minute plus Gifting shares to your family or to charity your phone companys access charge.
Lines are open Monday To transfer shares to another member ofyour family as a gift, to Friday 9.00 am to 5.30pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you can please ask the Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
com and click on the link Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose forInternational Payment Service.
value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish toconsider donating them to the share donation charity ShareGift registered Shareholder information on the internetand charity no.
electronic communications Our website www.
com provides a range of Any shares you donate to ShareGift will be aggregated, sold when information about theCompany, our people and businesses and possible, and the proceeds will be donated to a wide range of other our policies on corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Since ShareGift was launched, over 20m has been It should be regarded as your first point of reference forinformation given to more than 2,000 charities.
The share price can also be found there.
The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the You can create a Share Portal account, through which you will Registrars.
For more information visit www.
be able to access the full range of online shareholder services, including the ability to: view yourholdings and indicative share price andvaluation: view movements on your holdings and your dividend payment history: register a dividend mandate tohave your dividends paid directly into your bank account: change your registered address: sign up to receive e-communications or access the online proxy voting facility: and download andprintshareholder forms.
The Share Portal is easy to use.
Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 180 Shareholder information continued Share dealing services Forward-looking statements Capita Share Dealing Services a trading name of Capita IRG This document may include certain forward-looking statements, Trustees Limited provide a telephone and online share dealing beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect to Balfour service for UK and EEA resident shareholders.
To use this service, Beatty plcs business, financial condition and results of operations.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use phone companys access charge.
Calls from outside the UK will offorward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open estimates, plans, anticipates, targets, aims, continues, 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding bank expects, intends, hopes, may, will, would, could or should holidays in England and Wales.
Alternatively, you canlog on to or in each case, their negative or other various orcomparable www.
These statements are made by the Balfour Beattyplc Directors in good faith-based onthe information available to Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the them atthedate of this report and reflect the Balfour Beatty Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct plc Directors beliefs and expectations.
By their nature, these cross-border business within the EEA under the provisions of the statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to EU Markets inFinancial Instruments Directive.
events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur London Stock Exchange Codes in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied Ordinary shares: 0096162.
Preference shares: 0097820. by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, BBY: Preference shares: BBYB.
failure inBalfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies Capital gains tax CGT and those factorsset out under Principal risks onpages 44 to 50 For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour of this document.
Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p pershare.
No representation or warranty is made thatany of these statements This has been adjusted for the 1for 5 rights issue in June 1992, or forecasts will come to pass or that any forecast results will be the2 for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and the3 for 7 rights achieved.
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date issue in October 2009 and assumes that all rights have been of this document and Balfour Beatty plc andits advisers expressly taken up.
disclaim any obligations or undertaking to release anyupdate of, Consolidated tax vouchers or revisions to, any forward-looking statements in this document.
Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax voucher annually No statement in the document is intended to be, or intended to all shareholders who have their dividends paid direct to to be construed as, a profit forecast or to be interpreted to their bank accounts.
If you would prefer to receive a tax mean that earnings per Balfour Beatty plc share for the current voucher at each dividend payment date rather than annually, orfuture financial years will necessarily match or exceed the please contact the Registrars.
A copy of the consolidated historical earnings perBalfour Beatty plc share.
As a result, you tax voucher may be downloaded from the Share Portal at are cautioned not to place anyundue reliance on such forwardwww.
Enquiries Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position should be made in writing to the Corporate Communications Department at the address shown below orbyemail to info@balfourbeatty.
Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HU.
com AR2015 Follow us on: Twitter @balfourbeatty LinkedIn linkedin.
com company balfour-beatty-plc Facebook facebook.
com BalfourBeattyPlc Find out more about our investor relations at: www.
com investors Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed in England by Pureprint The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, of which 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its alcofree and pureprint environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks used throughout.
Both the manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Balfour Beatty 5 Churchill Place Canary Wharf London E14 5HU Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 www.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
