Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 133 13.
Other financial assets and liabilities Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The global nature of the Groups business means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates.
In order to protect itself against currency uctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge all material rm transactional exposures.
The Group also uses interest rate derivative instruments to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate uctuations on its borrowings and deposits by varying the proportion of xed rate debt relative to oating rate debt over the forward time horizon.
The Group aims to achieve hedge accounting treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign currency exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge accounting can be achieved.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, such instruments are stated atfair value at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Cash ow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of cash ows relating to a highly probable forecast transaction income or expense, the effective portion of any change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented inthe hedging reserve in equity.
Amounts recognised in equity are reclassied from reserves into the cost oftheunderlying transaction and recognised in the income statement when the underlying transaction affects profit or loss.
The ineffective portion of any change in the fair value of the instrument is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Fair value hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the underlying asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk, and gains and losses on the derivative instrument, are recognised in the income statement for the period.
2015 2014 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current Cash ow hedges foreign exchange contracts 52 72 28 79 Other foreign exchange interest rate contracts 2 1 Debt-related derivative financial instruments assets 53 10 107 72 38 79 Current Cash ow hedges foreign exchange contracts 47 123 41 97 Other foreign exchange interest rate contracts 58 7 5 10 105 130 46 107 1.
Includes fair value hedges of 7m 2014 4m.
The debt-related derivative financial liabilities are presented as a component of loans and overdrafts see note 18.
Cash ow hedges The hedged, highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are predominantly expected to occur at various stages during the next 12 months.
The majority of those extending beyond 12 months are expected to have been transacted within five years of the balance sheet date.
Amounts charged to the hedging reserve in respect of cash ow hedges were 25m 2014 92m, including a 54m 2014 1m credit on reclassication toprot and loss on maturity and a 79m 2014 93m charge on contracts held at 31 December 2015.
Fair value hedges The gain arising in the income statement on fair value hedging instruments was 3m 2014 loss 2m.
The loss arising in the income statement onthe fair value of the underlying hedged items was 2m 2014 1m.
The ineffective portion recognised in the income statement arising from fair value hedges was 1m 2014 3m.
