Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 106 Group accounts Preparation Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed in the Corporate governance report on page 64, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and other relevant financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
These exchange differences are recognised in the income statement.
significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in the relevant notes.
These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reect appropriate judgements and estimates, and provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial performance and position.
Certain of the Groups significant accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The critical accounting policies are listed below and explained in more detail in the relevant notes to the Group accounts: Critical accounting policy Description Notes Revenue and profit recognition 1 The recognition of revenue and profit The majority of long-term contracts are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction onlong-term contracts.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised when performance milestones have been completed.
The ultimate profitability of long-term contracts is estimated based on estimates of revenue and costs, including allowances for technical and other risks, which are reliant on the knowledge and experience of the Groups project managers, engineers, and finance and commercial professionals.
Material changes in these estimates could affect the profitability of individual contracts.
Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and updated at least quarterly, and more frequently as determined by events or circumstances.
profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired.
Carrying value of intangible assets 8 The valuation of acquired intangible Acquired intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are valued in line with internationally assets:and used models, which require the use of estimates that may differ from actual outcomes.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Future results are impacted bythe amortisation periods adopted and, potentially, any differences between estimated and actual circumstances related to individual intangible assets.
the determination of assumptions Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost underpinning goodwill impairment less accumulated impairment losses.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill testing.
isallocated to Cash-Generating Units on a consistent basis.
The impairment review calculations require the use of estimates related to the future profitability and cash-generating ability of the acquired businesses and the pre-tax discount rate usedin discounting these projected cash ows.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations 20 The determination of assumptions Pension scheme accounting valuations are prepared by independent actuaries.
underpinning the valuation of retirement Foreach of the actuarial assumptions used to measure the Groups pension scheme benefit obligations for dened benefit liabilities, there is a range of possible values and management exercises judgement pensionschemes: and indeciding the point within that range that most appropriately reects the Groups circumstances.
Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact on the size of the deficit.
the determination of the share of the With the exception of the allocation of the BAE Systems Pension Scheme Main pensiondecit allocated to the Groups Scheme deficit to Airbus, the deficit allocation method for other employers of the equity accounted investments and other Main Scheme and for all other schemes is based on the relative payroll contributions participating employers.
ofactive members, which is consistent with prior years and is intended to reect a reasonable approximation of the share ofthe deficit.
In December 2015, BAE Systems, Airbus and the scheme trustees agreed to work towards the creation of a separate Airbus section of the Main Scheme in 2016 with the allocation of the deficit to the BAE Systems and Airbus sections based on each members last employer.
This allocation methodology is considered to represent a better estimate of the deficit allocation and has been reected in the allocation of theIAS 19 pension deficit in the Main Scheme at 31 December 2015.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 107 Preparation continued Tax provisions In addition to the critical accounting policies, the directors exercise judgement to determine the amount of tax provisions.
Provision is made forknown issues based on interpretation of country-specic legislation and the likely outcome of negotiations or litigation.
Included within the Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2015 are current tax liabilities of 315m, which comprise a provision of 353m and other tax creditors of 35m, offset by a debtor of 73m in respect of research and development expenditure credits.
The provision of 353m is in respect ofknown tax issues, of which 287m relates to non-UK jurisdictions.
The resolution of taxpositions taken by the Group can take a considerable period oftime to conclude and, in some cases, it is difficult to predict the outcome.
The directors believe that adequate provision is made for each knowntax risk.
Changes in accounting policies IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, issued in July 2014 with an effective date of 1 January 2018, is not yet EU endorsed.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in May 2014 with an effective date of 1 January 2018, is not yet EU endorsed.
Management is in the process of reviewing the impact that this will have on the Group.
IFRS 16, Leases, issued in January 2016 with an effective date of 1 January 2019, is not yet EU endorsed.
Consolidation The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its joint ventures results accounted for under the equity method.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls a subsidiary when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the Consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of their profits andlosses, and the Consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets within equity accounted investments.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange during the year.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS 1 January 2004 are presented in equity, but not as a separate component.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 are recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on sale.
