Barratt Developments PLC 118 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Impact of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of approval of these Financial Statements, there were a The adoption of the following standards, amendments and number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have been interpretations is not expected to have any material impact on the published and are therefore mandatory for the Groups accounting Financial Statements of the Group: periods beginning on or after 1 July 2015 and later periods.
Amendment to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisition of Interest in Amendments to IAS 19: Defined Benefit Plans Employee Joint Operations.
The amendment requires companies to apply Contributions, Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and Annual IFRS Business Combinations acquisition and disclosure Improvements 2011-2013 have been endorsed by the EU.
requirements to investments in joint operations.
The only exemption from this is if the formation of the joint operation Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial coincides with the formation of the business.
Statements, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as issued in 2009 and subsequently amended in 2010 and 2014, IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts has not yet been endorsed Accounts, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, by the EU.
This will not have an impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants, Amendments to IAS Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Statements reinstate the equity method as an accounting option Amortisation, Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an Entities, Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of entitys separate financial statements.
These amendments have Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale not yet been endorsed by the EU and are not expected to impact or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint the Group.
Venture, Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 and Annual Improvements 2012-2014 have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities The Group has not early-adopted any standard, amendment have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
These amendments give or interpretation.
guidance on exemptions from consolidating certain subsidiaries for investment entities and are not expected to impact the Group.
The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to have an impact upon the Group are: Amendments to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was reissued in October 2010 as Amortisation has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
None of these the second step in the IASB project to replace IAS 39 Financial amendments are expected to impact the Group.
The final revision to the standard incorporating the impairment, classification and Amendments to IAS 19 Defined Benefit Plans: Employee measurement requirements was issued by the IASB in July 2014.
Contributions will apply to the Group from 1 July 2015.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of This amendment is not expected to impact the Group.
The Group is currently assessing the The Annual Improvements 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 Cycles impact of the revisions on the Groups results and financial includes amendments to a number of different accounting position, until such assessment is completed it is not practical to standards.
These amendments will apply to the Group from 1 July provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 9.
None of these amendments are expected to impact IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued on the Group.
This standard sets out revenue recognition The Annual Improvements 2012-2014 have not yet been endorsed conditions for the Group and will be applicable from 1 July 2018. by the EU and are not expected to impact the Group.
The standard remains subject to an exposure draft with proposed clarifications as well as being subject to industry interpretations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Bearer Plants have not yet and consensus.
The Group has continued, but not yet completed, been endorsed by the EU and are not expected to impact its assessment of the impact of the standard, as currently drafted, the Group.
To date, we expect the standard may delay the recognition of revenue from construction contracts, although this Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets will not affect the Groups cash flows.
In addition, the standard is between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture have not expected to require presentational changes to our Income yet been endorsed by the EU and are not expected to impact Statement to show part exchange income and expenses the Group.
separately, which are currently recognised on a net basis within Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1 has not yet been cost of sales, as detailed in note 1.
It is not practical to provide a endorsed by the EU and is not expected to impact the Group.
reasonable estimate of the full impact of IFRS 15 until our assessment has been completed, which we expect to be within the year ended 30 June 2016, subject to the finalisation of the standard, and therefore we will provide further disclosures upon the impact of IFRS 15 in our Annual Report and Accounts nextyear.
