108 Other Information Glossary Affordable Housing Social rented and intermediate housing provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market, atacost low enough for them to afford, determined with regard to local incomes and local house prices.
Average Selling Price Calculated by dividing the total price of homes sold by the number of homes sold.
Brownfield Sites Land which has been previously used for other purposes.
Cancellation Rate The rate at which customers withdraw from a house purchase after paying the reservation fee, but before contracts are exchanged, usually due to difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance.
Reservation fees are refunded in accordance with the Consumer Code for Home Builders.
Considerate Constructors Scheme A national initiative by the construction industry, where companies and sites voluntarily register and agree to be monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice, with a view to promoting best practice beyond statutory requirements.
CSCS Cards The CSCS card denotes achievement of a Construction Skills Certificate, demonstrating occupational competence in the construction industry under the Construction Skills Certificate Scheme.
FSC The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international not-for-profit, multi-stakeholder organisation, established in 1993 to promote responsible management of the worlds forests.
HBF Home Builders Federation is an industry body, representing the home building industry in England and Wales.
It represents member interests on a national and regional level to create the best possible environment in which to deliver new homes.
Help to Buy The Help to Buy equity loan scheme is a government scheme which provides equity loans to both first-time buyers and home movers on newly constructed homes worth up to 600,000 in England.
Buyers have to contribute at least 5% of the property price as a deposit, and obtain a mortgage of up to 75% and the government provides a loan for up to 20% of the price.
The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme helps people to buy a home worth up to 600,000 in the UK with a 5% deposit to obtain a 95% mortgage.
The government gives a guarantee to the lender of up to 15% of the value of the property.
Land Bank The land bank is comprised of three components: i land with an implementable detailed planning permission DPP : ii medium-term pipeline land, pending an implementable DPP: iii strategic long-term land which we have an interest in, which may often have the benefit of a positive planning status in approved or emerging local plans.
National Planning Policy Framework NPPF The National Planning Policy Framework sets out the governments planning policies for England and how these are expected to be applied.
It provides a framework within which local people and their accountable councils can produce their own distinctive local and neighbourhood plans, which reflect the needs and priorities of their communities.
NHBC is the leading warranty, insurance provider and body responsible for setting standards of construction for UK housebuilding for new and newly converted homes.
PEFC The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC is an international non-profit, non-governmental organisation, dedicated to promoting Sustainable Forest Management through independent third-party certification.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OtherXinformation v34.
indd 108 29 10 2015 18:19 About us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 109 Pipeline Plots which are either owned or contracted, often conditionally, pending an implementable detailed planning permission.
Planning Permission Usually granted by the local planning authority, this permission allows a plot of land to be built on, change its use or, for an existing building, be redeveloped or altered.
Permission is either outline when detailed plans are still to be approved, ordetailed when detailed plans have been approved.
Registered Providers Government funded organisations that provide affordable housing.
These can be either non-profit making, such as housing associations, trusts and co-operatives, or profit making, such as housebuilders.
Working alongside local authorities, they provide homes for people meeting the affordable homes criteria.
As well as developing land and building homes.
Registered Providers also perform a landlord function by maintaining properties and collecting rent.
RIDDOR RIDDOR refers to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
The regulations require an employer to report any absence by an employee of seven days or more caused by an accident at work to the Health and Safety Executive.
Safemark Certificate NHBCs Health & Safety Competence Assessment Scheme.
Section 106 Planning Agreements These are legally-binding agreements or planning obligations entered into between a landowner and a local planning authority, under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
These agreements are a way of delivering or addressing matters that are necessary to make a development acceptable in planning terms.
They are increasingly used to support the provision of services and infrastructure, such as highways, recreational facilities, education, health and affordable housing.
Site phase A site is a concise area of land on which homes are being constructed.
Larger sites may be divided into a number of phases which are developed at different times.
Social Housing Housing that is let at low rents and on a secure basis to people in housing need.
It is generally provided by councils and not-forprofit organisations such as housing associations.
Sustainability Environmental sustainability has been defined as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
