Overview Strategic Report Our Strengths Our Strengths Strategic Report We are a focused business, ideally placed to exploit opportunities inthe markets in which we operate.
Five major factors will contribute to BBA Aviations continued success and growth.
CEOs Statement 10 Signature Flight Support is the worlds leading fixed base operation Signature locations Market leadership Our Vision, Mission and Values 11 FBO network with 138 locations worldwide growing to 195 worldwide locations following the acquisition of Landmark Aviation.
ASIG is the largest independent refueller in the world.
Business Model 12 Our Engine Repair & Overhaul ERO businesses have marketleading positions in the majority of programmes in which they 138 participate.
Our Markets 14 See more on Legacy Support has a proven capability in the adoption of Our Business intellectual property to provide seamless support of Original pages 3259 Our Strategy 15 Equipment Manufacturer OEM pedigree parts.
Our network of FBO locations in the USA has an average unexpired How We Measure Success 16 Average remaining lease Barriers to entry lease term of 19 years.
life ofour US FBOs The network of airports at which we have operating licences and Our Risks 18 assets gives us the capacity to provide a range of commercial aviation services.
We have the assets and technical capability to conduct into-plane refuelling.
19 years We have a strong portfolio of authorisations from OEMs to service their engines.
We are authorised to overhaul engines powering 80% of the Business and General Aviation B&GA fleet and over 65% of the rotorcraft fleet.
Intellectual property on aviation component sub-systems and systems which we buy or license from OEMs.
Our businesses have a service focus and operate with low asset Low fixed costs Service orientation intensity and a naturally flexible cost base, making them highly cash cash generation generative and inherently well suited to deal with market cyclicality.
25% There are significant growth opportunities across all of our B&GA market still 15% Growth businesses resulting from recovery, structural growth andthe scope off prior peak for continued consolidation in generally fragmented markets.
15% The business is actively managed by an empowered, experienced One shared Vision, Focus and motivated management team with a defined, Group-wide Mission andValues focusas expressed in BBA Aviations Vision, Mission and Values.
1 08 09 Strategic Report Strategic Report CEOs Statement Our Vision, Mission and Values CEOs Statement Our Vision, Mission and Values Our Vision, Mission and Values align and link all BBA Aviation is ideally positioned to maximise the BBAAviation companies and businesses together opportunities presented by the markets inwhich as one team.
They describe our operating system, we operate.
what each of us focuses on, cares about and Our Executive Management Committee includes representatives from each of our business Simon Pryce operations and key functions and implements decisions made by the Board on strategic the way we behave.
Group Chief direction and policy.
Our businesses are then actively managed in line with the strategy Executive todeliver long-term sustainable value.
Our Vision and Mission See more online www.
com BBA Aviation is dedicated to being the worlds leading provider of aviation support and At Group-level we allocate resource, monitor critical objectives, enable best practice to be about-us whatdrives-us.
com aftermarket services with the overarching objective to deliver exceptional, long-term shared and facilitate growth by supporting cross-business co-operation, leveraging our business sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
relationships and exploiting the opportunities offered by our global footprint and strong networks.
We also support our businesses with functional expertise and management systems.
All Group businesses are individually and collectively focused on: Our businesses are leaders in their markets and, over time, we have built strong positions, technical capability and respected service-led brands.
Our focus on the B&GA market, which Consistently exceeding customer expectations: will be strengthened by the acquisition of Landmark Aviation, continues to offer us significant Valuing and empowering our people in a zero incident, safe environment: opportunities for growth from both cyclical recovery and structural expansion and through Encouraging innovation: the leveraging of our individual business strategies.
Working together for greater gain: Always behaving with integrity and respect.
Committees BBA Aviation operates a series of Senior Management Committees which support the Our Values goalsof the Executive Management Committee.
Committees include the Business Alliance Our employees are also unified around a common set of values that are a vital and integral Team, which is responsible for leveraging relationships with customers in order to provide part of the way we do business.
Every day we put our values into action with pride.
additional services and the Continuous Improvement and Innovation Committee, which supports the development of knowledge across the Group in both these areas.
Performance Employees Integrity We earn the trust and respect of We focus on delivery of long-term In 2015 BBA Aviation had c. 13,000 employees worldwide and we value the hard work, and sustainable value, continuous our stakeholders with honesty, commitment and contribution that every individual has made to the ongoing success of the fairness, openness and by improvement and reliability.
Our employees are linked as one team by BBA Aviations Vision, Mission and Values see honouring our commitments.
opposite which are promoted throughout the Group and we, in turn, commit to support them through investing in training and career development, recognising them for good performance, Safety We are dedicated to safety Responsibility listening to their views and focusing on providing a safe environment in which to work.
We are committed to managing andsecurity, the elimination of hazards and protecting people, our impact on, and contributing Safety positively to society and the property and our environment.
Whilst our sites run their own safety programmes relevant to their operations, we have environment.
recently undertaken a series of initiatives at Group level via BBA Aviations Safety Committee to more deeply engage all individuals in safety issues.
This includes the launch of a new Safety People We are committed to investing Management System and the relaunch of our ZIPP global safety brand, along with a Global Service inand empowering our people We strive continually to anticipate Safety Day.
Our goal and the goal of every site and individual in BBA Aviation is zero preventable customer needs, exceeding their through training and education incidents and we are committed to delivering the culture in which this can be achieved.
See more on CSR and to providing them with expectations.
pages 6065 opportunities for rewarding Corporate Social Responsibility careers.
Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability are embedded into our Vision, Mission andValues and are important to everyone that either works for or has a relationship with BBAAviation.
They are promoted across the Group by our CSR Committee and enshrined inour Approach to CSR policy.
Simon Pryce 10 Group Chief Executive 11
