About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 35 John Cuthbert OBE DL Paul Hampden Smith Advisers 4 6 Senior independent Non-executive director Group Company Secretary non-executive director Paul Hampden Smith, a Chartered and Registered Office Accountant, was appointed a nonJohn Cuthbert, a Chartered Kevin Wrightson FCIS executive director on 1 August 2013.
Accountant, was appointed a nonBellway p. l. c. Paul was Group Finance Director of executive director on 1 November Seaton Burn House Travis Perkins plc from 1996 until his 2009.
John worked in the water Dudley Lane retirement in February 2013, having industry from 1991 to 2010, when Seaton Burn worked for Travis Perkins since 1988. he retired as Managing Director of Newcastle upon Tyne He is a non-executive director and Northumbrian Water Group plc, NE13 6BE Chairman of the Audit Committee having formerly been Managing Registered number 1372603 of Pendragon PLC, and senior Director of North East Water plc independent non-executive director and Managing Director of Essex and and Chairman of the Audit Committee Suffolk Water plc.
John became senior Registrars and Transfer Office of Clipper Logistics plc.
He is also a independent non-executive director on non-executive director of Grafton 1 February 2014.
He is Chairman of the Capita Asset Services Group plc.
He was previously a nonNomination Committee and is also a The Registry executive director and Chairman of the member of the Audit Committee and 34 Beckenham Road Audit Committee of both Redrow plc the Board Committee on Executive Beckenham and DX Services plc.
Kent of the Audit Committee and is also a BR3 4TU member of the Nomination Committee and the Board Committee on Executive Financial Adviser 5 Mike Toms Directors Remuneration.
N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Non-executive director Stockbrokers 7 Denise Jagger Mike Toms was appointed a nonCitigroup Global Markets Limited executive director on 1 February 2009.
Non-executive director Numis Securities Limited Mike is currently a non-executive Denise Jagger, a solicitor, was director of Birmingham Airport Bankers appointed a non-executive director Holdings Limited and was formerly an on 1 August 2013.
Denise has been a Barclays Bank PLC executive director of BAA plc.
He has partner at Eversheds LLP since 2004, Lloyds Banking Group plc also been a non-executive Chairman of and is a non-executive director of Northern Ireland Electricity plc, a nonAuditor terrorism risk reinsurer, Pool Re, sits on executive director of Viridian Group PLC the Council of the University of York KPMG LLP and of UK Coal PLC.
He is a member and is a Trustee of St Giles Trust.
Prior to of the Royal Institution of Chartered joining Eversheds she was Company Surveyors MRICS and a member Secretary and General Counsel at ASDA of the Royal Town Planning Institute Group plc, later part of Wal-Mart from MRTPI.
He is Chairman of the Board 1993 to 2004.
Denises previous nonCommittee on Executive Directors executive directorships include The Remuneration, and a member of the British Olympic Association, Redrowplc Audit and Nomination Committees.
Denise is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees and also a member of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
8 Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary Kevin Wrightson, a Chartered Secretary, joined Bellway in 1990.
Kevin has held senior posts within the Group, including that of Deputy Group Secretary, before his appointment as Group Company Secretary on 1 August 2002.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance v50.
