Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group has detailed Available for sale financial assets below the critical accounting judgements made and the key sources of estimation uncertainty within these Financial Statements.
The Group holds available for sale financial assets principally comprising interest free loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective Critical accounting judgements property, which are held at fair value.
The fair value calculation In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from the described in the accounting policies note, the Directors have made no redemption of interest free loans, including an estimate of the market individual judgements that have a significant impact upon the Financial value of the property at the estimated time of repayment, and requires Statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present with below.
The estimated market value is based on original selling prices and local market conditions with an allowance Key sources of estimation uncertainty for low single-digit sales price inflation.
The estimated repayment profile is based on historical data for first time buyers selling their The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of property.
The discount rate used is consistent with the interest rate estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet dates, are discussed below.
payable on a third party second charge loan of a similar amount and duration.
Carrying value of land and work in progress The interrelationship between these assumptions, particularly those The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and commercial related to estimated market value and estimated repayment profile, development.
The majority of the development activity is not contracted means that there is not a direct correlation between house price prior to the development commencing.
Accordingly, the Group has in inflation and the valuation of the Groups available for sale financial its Balance Sheet at 30 June 2015 current assets that are not covered assets.
During the year, the levels of house price inflation and by a forward sale.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify redemptions have been in line with those expected in the fair value any developments where the Balance Sheet value of land and work in calculation.
Accordingly, there has been no significant change in the progress is more than the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Balance Sheet valuation due to the improved market.
At 30 June 2015, the total asset recognised on the Balance Sheet in relation to these During the year the Group has conducted six-monthly reviews of the secured loans was 107.0m 2014: 122.4m, with the reduction net realisable value of specific sites identified as at high risk of primarily due to redemptions.
impairment, based upon a number of criteria including low site profit margins and sites with no forecast completions.
Where the estimated net realisable value of a site was less than its current carrying value Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review within the Balance Sheet, the Group has impaired the land and work in The impairment review for the goodwill of the housebuilding business progress value.
and the Groups indefinite life brand, David Wilson Homes, requires an During the year, due to performance variations and changes to viability estimation of the value-in-use of the housebuilding segment as defined on individual sites, there were gross impairment charges of 17.9m in notes 10 and 11.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of 2014: 31.3m and gross impairment reversals of 6.2m, the future cash flows expected from the housebuilding business, 2014: 22.4m resulting in a net impairment charge of 11.7m including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, and 2014: 8.9m included within profit from operations.
requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash flows.
The discount rate used is based on the The key judgements in these reviews were estimating the realisable average capital structure of the Group, current market assessments of value of a site, which is determined by forecast sales rates, expected the time value of money and risks appropriate to the Groups sales prices and estimated costs to complete.
The estimation of future housebuilding business.
Changes in these may impact upon the sales prices and costs to complete included allowances for low Groups discount rate in future periods.
The carrying amount of single-digit sales price inflation and low single-digit build costs goodwill at 30 June 2015 was 792.2m and the indefinite life brands inflation in future periods.
During the year the Group continued to was 100.0m, there was no impairment recognised during the year.
benefit from favourable market conditions.
If the UK housing market were to change beyond management expectations in the future, in particular with regards to the assumptions around sales prices and estimated costs to complete, further adjustments to the carrying value of land and work in progress may be required.
The land held at the balance sheet date that has already been impaired is most sensitive to the judgements being applied and the potential for further impairment or reversal.
Forecasting risk also increases in relation to those sites that are not expected to be realised in the short to medium term.
Barratt Developments PLC 120 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty continued Investment in joint venture holding non-current available for Recognition of profit where developments are accounted for sale financial assets under IAS 11 Construction Contracts The Group holds a joint venture investment of 25.6m 2014: 25.6m in The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising Rose Shared Equity LLP.
This entity holds non-current available for revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
The application of sale financial assets comprising interest free loans that are secured by this policy requires judgements to be made in respect of the total way of a second charge on the respective property.
The Groups expected costs to complete for each site.
The Group has in place investment is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation of In line with the Groups other joint venture investments, the carrying costs and revenues is based upon appropriate estimates.
value is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
This review requires estimation of the cash flows expected to be received by the Group Defined benefit pension scheme which is based upon calculation of the fair values of the loans held by The Directors engage a qualified independent actuary to calculate the the entity including an estimate of future cash flows expected from the Groups asset in respect of its defined benefit pension scheme.
redemption of interest free loans, including an estimate of the market In calculating this asset, it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be value of the property at the estimated time of redemption, and requires made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present price inflation, the long term rate of return upon scheme assets and value of the cash flows.
The estimated market value is based on mortality.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from original selling prices and local market conditions with an allowance those assumed, the pension asset may differ from that included in for low single-digit sales price inflation.
The estimated repayment these Financial Statements.
profile is based on historic data for first time buyers selling their property.
The discount rate used is consistent with the interest rate The Group has obtained legal advice on the rights to the Groups payable on a third party second charge loan of a similar amount defined benefit pension schemes assets after the death of the last and duration.
Based on this advice, the Group has concluded that it is appropriate to recognise an asset related to this scheme.
Classification of joint arrangements Hedge accounting The Group holds one joint venture investment not in equal share and one with more than one other party.
However, in both cases, the Group The majority of the Groups facilities are floating rate, which exposes has equal voting rights and control over the activities of the companies the Group to interest rate risk.
The Group has in place 137.0m with the other parties, as explained in note 13.
In addition, the Group 2014: 137.0m of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group has and the other parties to the agreements only have rights to the net adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis that it is highly assets of these companies through the terms of the contractual probable that there is sufficient forecast debt to match with the period arrangements.
These entities are therefore classified as joint ventures of swaps.
If this basis was not met in the future any changes in fair and are accounted for by the equity method in the Consolidated value of the swaps would be recognised in the Consolidated Income Financial Statements.
Statement, rather than in equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2015, there was a gain of 2.4m 2014: 7.7m included in equity related to The Groups interests in a number of the entities classified as joint these swaps.
In addition, the Group has US$80.0m 2014: US$80.0m of cross Barratt Wates East Grinstead No.
2 Limited is a wholly owned currency swaps to manage the cash flow risks related to foreign subsidiary of the Groups joint venture, Barratt Wates East Grinstead exchange, arising from the Groups sources of US Dollar denominated Limited, and is therefore classified as a joint venture of the Group.
These swaps are designated as a cash flow hedge against Aldgate Land One Limited and Aldgate Land Two Limited are wholly future foreign exchange rate movements.
If the hedges ceased to be owned subsidiaries of the Groups joint venture, Aldgate Place GP highly effective, any changes in fair value of the swaps would be Limited, and are therefore classified as joint ventures of the Group.
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, rather than equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2015, there was a gain of 4.1m 2014: BDWZest Developments LLP, Alie Street LLP, Queensland Road LLP, loss of 7.3m included in equity related to these swaps.
Fulham Wharf LLP and Nine Elms LLP form a group of limited liability partnerships jointly owned directly or indirectly by BDWZest LLP and ZestBDW LLP, both of which are joint ventures of the Group.
All of these entities are therefore classified as joint ventures of the Group.
Estimation of costs to complete In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on its developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
