Barratt Developments PLC 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Year ended 30 June 2015 Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered forecasts and appropriate sensitivities, the Directors have formed a judgement, Basis of preparation at the time of approving the Financial Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being at International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the least twelve months from the date of these Financial Statements.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB, International For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Interpretations preparation of these Financial Statements.
and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations as adopted and endorsed by the European Union EU and with those Adoption of new and revised standards parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and therefore the Group Financial Statements comply with In the year ended 30 June 2015, the Group has adopted the following Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation.
standards, amendments and interpretations, none of which have had a The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost material impact on the Group: convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements assets, derivative financial instruments and share-based payments.
A summary of the more significant Group accounting policies is set IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements out below.
IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these IFRIC 21: Levies estimates are based on the Directors best knowledge of the amounts, Annual Improvements Cycle 2009 2011 actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The most significant estimates made by the Directors in these Financial Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12: Consolidated Statements are set out in Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Financial Statements, Joint Arrangements and Disclosure of Sources of Estimation Uncertainty.
Interests in Other Entities Transition Guidance Amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation Going concern Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the Financial Amendments to IAS 36: Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group Non-Financial Assets can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Amendments to IAS 39: Novation of Derivatives and Continuation The Groups business activities, together with factors which the of Hedge Accounting Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance and financial position are set out in the Strategic Report The adoption of IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities has on pages 2 to 45.
The material financial and operational risks and resulted in enhanced disclosures relating to the Groups jointly uncertainties that may have an impact upon the Groups performance controlled entities, jointly controlled operations and non-controlling and their mitigation are outlined on pages 40 to 45 and financial risks interests see notes 13, 14 and 16. including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 27 to the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon the wider The Group Financial Statements include the results of Barratt economic environment in which the Group operates.
As explained in Developments PLC the Company, incorporated in the UK, and all its the Risk management section on pages 40 to 45, factors that subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 June.
The financial statements particularly affect the performance of the Group include changes in the of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated from the date when macroeconomic environment including buyer confidence, availability of control passes to the Group using the purchase method of accounting mortgage finance for the Groups customers and interest rates.
and up to the date control ceases.
All transactions with subsidiaries and intercompany profits or losses are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has total committed bank facilities and private placement notes of848.3m.
The final maturity dates of these facilities range Business combinations from August 2017 to July 2021, with 150.0m of the revolving credit facility maturing in December 2017 and 550.0m of the revolving credit All of the subsidiaries identifiable assets and liabilities, including facility maturing in December 2019.
The committed facilities and contingent liabilities, existing at the date of acquisition are recorded at private placement notes provide appropriate headroom above our their fair values.
All changes to those assets and liabilities and the current forecast debt requirements.
resulting gains and losses that arise after the Group has gained control In addition to these committed borrowing facilities the Group has of the subsidiary are included in the post-acquisition income statement.
27.9m of financing from the Governments Get Britain Building and Growing Places Fund schemes.
The outstanding funds are repayable between December 2015 and March 2018.
Further committed loan facilities of 11.5m are available under agreements with local government which are due to be repaid between July 2015 and March 2020.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Jointly controlled entities Exceptional items A jointly controlled entity is an entity, including an unincorporated entity Items that are material in size or unusual or infrequent in nature are such as a partnership, in which the Group holds an interest with one or presented as exceptional items in the Income Statement.
The Directors more other parties where a contractual arrangement has established are of the opinion that the separate presentation of exceptional items joint control over the entity.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for provides helpful information about the Groups underlying business using the equity method of accounting.
Examples of events that, inter alia, may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional are the restructuring of existing Jointly controlled operations and newly-acquired businesses, refinancing costs, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses or individual assets, pension scheme The Group enters into jointly controlled operations as part of its curtailments and asset impairments, including land, work in progress, housebuilding and property development activities.
The Groups share goodwill and investments.
of profits and losses from its investments in such jointly controlled operations is accounted for on a direct basis and is included in the Profit from operations Income Statement.
The Groups share of its investments, assets and liabilities is accounted for on a directly proportional basis in the Groups Profit from operations includes all of the revenue and costs derived Balance Sheet.
from the Groups operating businesses.
Profit from operations excludes finance costs, finance income, the Groups share of profits or losses from joint ventures and associates and tax.
Associated entities An associated entity is an entity, including an unincorporated entity Segmental reporting such as a partnership, in which the Group holds a significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
The Group consists of two separate segments for internal reporting, Associated entities are accounted for using the equity method regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate of accounting.
resources to the segments and to assess their performance, being housebuilding and commercial developments.
These segments therefore comprise the primary reporting segments within the Revenue Financial Statements.
All of the Groups operations are within Britain, Revenue is recognised at legal completion in respect of the total which is one geographic market in the context of managing the proceeds of building and development.
An appropriate proportion of Groups activities.
revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity.
Revenue is measured at the fair Goodwill value of consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for the property, net of discounts and VAT.
The sale Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair proceeds of part-exchange properties are not included in revenue.
value of the consideration over the fair value of the separately identifiable net assets and liabilities acquired.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses is capitalised as an asset but reviewed for impairment at Construction contracts least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of Revenue is only recognised on a construction contract where the the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the outcome can be estimated reliably.
Variations to, and claims arising in synergies of the combination at acquisition being housebuilding and respect of, construction contracts, are included in revenue to the extent commercial developments.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill that they have been agreed with the customer.
Revenue and costs are has been allocated are tested for impairment at least annually.
If the recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to work performed to date.
Contracts are only treated as construction reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and contracts when they have been specifically negotiated for the then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying construction of a development or property.
When it is probable that the amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised total costs on a construction contract will exceed total contract immediately in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense in the Income Statement immediately.
Amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade receivables and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account for construction contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable on construction contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable on construction contracts are included in trade payables.
Barratt Developments PLC 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Intangible assets Leases as lessee Operating lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement in equal Brands instalments over the life of the lease.
Internally generated brands are not capitalised.
The Group has capitalised as intangible assets brands that have been acquired.
Leases as lessor Acquired brand values are calculated using discounted cash flows.
Where a brand is considered to have a finite life, it is amortised over its The Group enters into leasing arrangements with third parties useful life on a straight-line basis.
Where a brand is capitalised with an following the completion of constructed developments until the date of indefinite life, it is not amortised.
The factors that contribute to the the sale of the development to third parties.
Rental income from these durability of brands capitalised are that there are no material legal, operating leases is recognised in the Income Statement on a straightregulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that line basis over the term of the lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in limit the useful life of these intangible assets.
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised in the Income Statement on The Group carries out an annual impairment review of indefinite life a straight-line basis over the lease term.
brands as part of the review of the carrying value of goodwill, by performing a value-in-use calculation, using a discount factor based Share-based payments upon the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Investments in subsidiary undertakings employees.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 Sharebased Payments has been applied to all grants of equity instruments Interests in subsidiary undertakings are accounted for at cost less any after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005. provision for impairment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of Where share-based payments are granted to the employees of the equity instrument at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured either subsidiary undertakings by the Company, they are treated as a capital using Black-Scholes, Present-Economic Value or Monte Carlo models contribution to the subsidiary and the Companys investment in the depending on the characteristics of the scheme.
The fair value is subsidiary is increased accordingly.
expensed in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will Property, plant and equipment eventually vest where non-market vesting conditions apply.
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated Non-vesting conditions are taken into account in the estimate of the fair depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is value of the equity instruments.
provided to write-off the cost of the assets on a straight-line basis to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Residual values Tax and asset lives are reviewed annually.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 25 deferred tax.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Plant is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, which ranges from one The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are Inventories taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively Cost comprises of direct materials, direct labour costs and those enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not been present location and condition.
reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less Land held for development, including land in the course of tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
development, is initially recorded at discounted cost.
Where, through deferred purchase credit terms, the carrying value differs from the Deferred tax is calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the amount that will ultimately be paid in settling the liability, this difference period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax is charged as a finance cost in the Income Statement over the period rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore developments.
In making these assessments, there is a degree of recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing estimates made.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set-off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Pensions Available for sale financial assets Defined contribution Secured loans The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes for certain Non-interest bearing loans granted as part of sales transactions that employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged in are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property the Income Statement in the year in which the contributions fall due.
are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 17.
Defined benefit Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets For the defined benefit scheme, the cost of providing benefits is is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
equity within other comprehensive income.
Gains and losses arising They are recognised outside profit or loss and presented in the from impairment losses, changes in future cash flows and interest Statements of Comprehensive Income.
Net-interest is calculated by calculated using the effective interest rate method are recognised applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
directly in the Income Statement.
Past service cost, until the scheme ceased to offer future accrual of Residential property fund defined benefit pensions to employees from 30 June 2009, was Revenue from transactions involving available for sale financial assets recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits were already is recognised at the fair value of consideration receivable.
The fair value vested, and otherwise was amortised on a straight-line basis over the of consideration received is the initial fair value of the units received in average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as equity within other comprehensive income.
The fair value of this adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair investment is calculated using the unadjusted quoted price of units in value of the scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is the property fund obtained from independent brokers.
limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Gains and losses arising from impairment losses and changes in future cash flows are recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Borrowing costs Trade and other receivables The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of Trade and other receivables are financial assets with fixed or the cost of the asset where developments are considered to fall under determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
the requirements of IAS 23 Borrowing costs Revised.
Otherwise, the They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities Group expenses borrowing costs in the period to which they relate greater than twelve months after the balance sheet date, which are through the Income Statement.
classified as non-current assets and are measured at amortised cost less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
The net of these Financial instruments balances are classified as trade and other receivables in the BalanceSheet.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
The Group derecognises a financial liability only when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are classified as either available for sale financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Barratt Developments PLC 116 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Impairment of financial assets Trade and other payables Trade and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and at each balance sheet date and are impaired where there is objective are stated at amortised cost.
evidence that the recovery of the receivable is in doubt.
Trade and other payables on extended terms, particularly in respect of Objective evidence of impairment could include significant financial land, are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the difficulty of the customer, default on payment terms or the customer asset to which they relate by discounting at prevailing market interest going into liquidation.
rates at the date of recognition.
The discount to nominal value, which will be paid in settling the deferred purchase terms liability, is The carrying amount of trade and other receivables is reduced through amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance the use of an allowance account.
When a trade or other receivable is costs using the effective interest rate method.
considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off arecredited Bank borrowings against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
For financial assets classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the value of the property underpinning the value of Where bank agreements include a legal right of offset for in hand and the loan or increased risk of default are considered to be objective overdraft balances, and the Group intends to settle the net outstanding evidence of impairment.
position, theoffset arrangements are applied to record the net position in the Balance Sheet.
In respect of debt instruments classified as available for sale financial assets, increases in the fair value of assets previously subject to Finance income and charges are accounted for using the effective impairment, which can be objectively related to an event occurring interest rate method in the Income Statement.
after recognition of the impairment loss, are recognised in the Income Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement Statement to the extent that they reverse the impairment loss.
in the period to which they relate.
Cash and cash equivalents Get Britain Building Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and balances in bank The Group has received cash upon specific sites under the accounts with no notice or less than three months notice from Governments Get Britain Building scheme, which is repayable in inception and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
current and future periods as the sites to which it relates are Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables.
These loans are interest bearing and are recorded at the proceeds received plus accrued interest.
These loans are included Financial liabilities and equity within loans and borrowings.
Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments Growing Places Fund Equity instruments consist of the Companys ordinary share capital and The Group has received cash under a local government Growing are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Places Fund scheme which is repayable over four years in eight six-monthly instalments, thefirst of which was in December 2013.
Financial liabilities This loan is interest bearing and recorded at the proceeds received plus accrued interest less repayments to date.
This loan is included All non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as other financial within loans and borrowings.
liabilities and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at in the period to which they relate.
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Other financial liabilities consist of bank borrowings and trade and other payables.
Financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Derivative financial instruments Cash flow hedge The Group has entered into derivative financial instruments in the form To the extent that the Groups cash flow hedges are effective, gains and of interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps to manage the losses on the fair value of the interest rate and cross currency swap interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising from the Groups arrangements are deferred in equity in the hedging reserve until operations and sources of finance.
The use of financial derivatives is realised.
On realisation, such gains and losses are recognised within governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors as finance charges in the Income Statement.
detailed in notes 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements.
To the extent that any hedge is ineffective, gains and losses on the fair Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative value of these swap arrangements are recognised immediately in contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair finance charges in the Income Statement.
value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods recognised in the profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging hedge relationship.
relationship, the hedging instrument expires, is sold or terminated or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative The interest rate and cross currency swap arrangements are gain or loss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised designated as hedging instruments, being either hedges of a change in when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
future cash flows as a result of interest rate movements or hedges of a When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the change in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency exchange cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised rate movements.
immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedging Government grants relationship is more than twelve months and as a current asset or a Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to less than twelve months.
them and that the grants will be received.
Hedge accounting Government grants are recognised in the Income Statement so as to match with the related costs they are intended to compensate for.
All of the Groups interest rate and cross currency swaps are Grants related to income are included in the appropriate line within the designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge Income Statement.
Grants related to assets are deducted from the relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the carrying amount of the asset.
hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedged transactions.
In addition, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows of the hedged items.
Details of the fair values of the interest rate and cross currency swaps are provided in notes 24, 25, 26 and 27 to the Financial Statements.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed in the Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity.
