Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors responsibilities forthe financial statements 109 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, the report on directors remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors The directors are responsible for In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, each of to prepare financial statements for ensuring that the company keeps the directors confirms that, to the best each financial year.
Under that law, the adequate accounting records which oftheir knowledge: directors have prepared the group and are sufficient to show and explain i The financial statements of the parent company financial statements in the companys and the groups group and the company, prepared accordance with International Financial transactions, disclose with reasonable in accordance with International Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted accuracy, at any time, the financial Financial Reporting Standards as by the European Union.
Under Company position of the company and the group adopted by the EU, give a true and law, the directors must not approve the and enable them to ensure that the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements unless they are financial statements and the report on financial position and profit or loss satisfied that they give a true and fair directors remuneration comply with the ofthe group: and view of the state of affairs of the group Companies Act 2006 and, as regards and the company and of the profit or the group financial statements, Article ii The Strategic report and the loss of the group and the company for 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors Directors report contained in that period.
also have a general responsibility for this Annual Report, include a fair taking such steps as are reasonably review of the development and In preparing these financial statements, open to them to safeguard the assets performance of the business and the the directors are required to: of the group and company and hence position of the group, together with a to prevent and detect fraud and a select suitable accounting policies and description of the principal risks and then apply them consistently: other irregularities.
a make judgements and accounting This statement, which should be read in In accordance with the provisions of estimates that are reasonable conjunction with the auditors report, is the UK Corporate Governance Code, and prudent: made with a view to distinguishing for the directors confirm that, to the best members the respective responsibilities of their knowledge, the Annual Report a state whether applicable IFRSs as of the directors and the auditors in and Accounts, taken as a whole, are adopted by the European Union have relation to the financial statements.
fair, balanced and understandable and been followed, subject to any material provide the information necessary for departures disclosed and explained in A copy of the Annual Report and the shareholders to assess the performance, financial statements of the company the financial statements: and business model and strategy of the are on the companys website at a prepare the financial statements on company and the group.
The directors are a going concern basis unless it is responsible for the maintenance and The current directors and their functions inappropriate to presume that the integrity of the corporate and financial are listed on pages 56 and 57. company will continue in business.
information included on the companys By order of the board, website: the work carried out by the David Lawler auditors does not involve consideration Company Secretary of these matters.
Accordingly, the 25 February 2016 auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were placed on the website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
