124 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements with the viability statement, the directors own credit risk is recorded in other Basis of preparation consider it appropriate to adopt the comprehensive income rather than the The consolidated financial statements going concern basis in preparing the income statement, unless this creates have been prepared on a going concern consolidated financial statements.
The group is basis in accordance with International Further information on the groups yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and Financial Reporting Standards as borrowings is given in note 15. the group will also consider the impact adopted by the European Union of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRSIC this assessment has been completed by Changes in accounting policies Interpretations and the Companies the board.
and disclosures Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated The following standards have been IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts financial statements have been prepared with customers deals with revenue adopted by the group for the first time under the historical cost convention, for the financial year beginning on or recognition and establishes principles as modied by financial assets and for reporting useful information to after 1 January 2015: financial liabilities including derivative users of financial statements about the a Annual Improvements to IFRS instruments at fair value through the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty 2010-2012 cycle income statement.
These policies have of revenue and cash ows arising from been consistently applied an entitys contracts with customers.
a Annual Improvements to IFRS 2011-2013 cycle Revenue is recognised when a customer The preparation of financial statements obtains control of a good or service in conformity with IFRS requires the use Adoption of the above has not led to and thus has the ability to direct the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
any changes in accounting policies and obtain the benets from the good It also requires management to exercise or had any material impact on the or service.
The standard replaces IAS its judgement in the process of applying financial statements.
18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction the groups accounting policies.
A number of new standards and contracts and related interpretations.
The areas involving a higher degree The standard is effective for annual amendments to standards and of judgement or complexity, or areas interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January where assumptions and estimates are 2018 and earlier application is permitted periods beginning after 1 January 2015, significant to the consolidated financial and have not been applied in preparing subject to EU endorsement.
The group is statements are disclosed on page 131. assessing the impact of IFRS 15. these consolidated financial statements.
During the year the group reclassied None of these are expected to have a In January 2016 IFRS 16 Leases was stocks of textile rental garments awaiting significant effect on the consolidated issued.
The group is assessing the delivery to customers from property, financial statements of the group, except impact of this IFRS which is mandatory plant and equipment to inventories.
the following set out below: for accounting periods commencing Textile asset additions at cost include IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses 1 January 2019. purchases of textile garments held at the classication, measurement and central warehouse reclassied to nished There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC recognition of financial assets and goods inventories of 0.4 million in 2015. interpretations that are not yet effective financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued 2014 comparatives have been restated that would be expected to have a in November 2009 and October to reect the same position: 10.4 million material impact on the group.
2010 and it is not yet endorsed by has been reclassied from property, the EU.
It replaces the parts of IAS plant and equipment to inventories.
Consolidation 39 that relate to the classication and Of this balance 2.7 million related to The group financial statements measurement of financial instruments purchases in 2014. consolidate the financial statements and is effective for accounting periods of the company and all its subsidiaries.
IFRS 9 Going concern Subsidiaries are all entities over which requires financial assets to be classied The group meets its day-to-day the group has the power to govern the into two measurement categories: working capital requirements through financial and operating policies generally those measured as at fair value and its bank facilities.
The current economic accompanying a shareholding of more those measured at amortised cost.
conditions continue to create uncertainty than one half of the voting rights.
The determination is made at initial particularly over a the level of demand Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from recognition.
The classication depends for the groups products: and b the the date on which control is transferred on the entitys business model for availability of bank finance.
The groups to the group and are fide-consolidated managing its financial instruments and forecasts and projections, taking from the date on which control ceases.
the contractual cash ow characteristics account of reasonably possible changes All intra-group transactions are of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, in trading performance, show that eliminated as part of the consolidation the standard retains most of the IAS 39 the group should be able to operate process.
The main change is that, within the level of its current facilities.
subsidiaries have been changed where in cases where the fair value option is Having assessed the principal risks and necessary to ensure consistency with the taken for financial liabilities, the part of other matters discussed in connection policies adopted by the group.
a fair value change due to an entitys Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 125 for allocating resources and assessing gain or loss.
Translation differences on Business combinations performance of the operating segments, non-monetary financial assets such as The group uses the acquisition method has been identied as the Berendsen plc equities classied as available for sale are of accounting to account for business Executive Board.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a The Berendsen plc Executive Board c Group companies subsidiary is the fair values of the assets manages the business under the The results and financial position of all transferred, the liabilities incurred and business lines of Workwear, Facility, the group entities that have a functional the equity interests issued by the group.
UK Flat Linen, Flat Linen outside currency different from the presentation The consideration transferred includes the UK, and Clinical Solutions and currency are translated into the the fair value of any asset or liability Decontamination.
The groups internal presentation currency as follows: resulting from a contingent consideration reporting structure is aligned on the arrangement.
Acquisition-related same basis and segmental information is a assets and liabilities for each balance costs are expensed as incurred and presented on a basis consistent with this sheet presented are translated at disclosed as exceptional items where reporting structure.
the closing rate at the date of that significant.
Identiable assets acquired balance sheet: and liabilities and contingent liabilities Foreign currency translation a income and expenses for each income assumed in a business combination are statement are translated at average measured initially at their fair values at a Functional and exchange rates unless this average presentationcurrency the acquisition date.
The excess of the is not a reasonable approximation consideration transferred, the amount Items included in the financial of the cumulative effect of the rates of any non-controlling interest in the statements of each of the groups entities prevailing on the transaction dates, in acquiree and the acquisition date fair are measured using the currency of which case income and expenses are value of any previous equity interest in the primary economic environment in translated at the rate on the dates of the acquiree over the fair value of the which the entity operates the functional the transactions : and groups share of the identiable net currency.
The consolidated financial assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
statements are presented in sterling, a all resulting exchange differences are If this is less than the fair value of the which is the companys functional and recognised as a separate component net assets of the subsidiary acquired presentation currency.
in the case of a bargain purchase, the On consolidation, exchange differences difference is recognised directly in the b Transactions and balances arising from the translation of the net consolidated income statement.
Foreign currency transactions are investment in foreign operations, and translated into the functional currency of borrowings and other currency Current assets held for sale using the exchange rates prevailing instruments designated as hedges Current assets and disposal groups at the dates of the transactions.
of such investments, are taken to classied as held for sale are measured Foreign exchange gains and losses shareholders equity.
When a foreign at the lower of carrying amount and fair resulting from the settlement of such operation is partially disposed of or values less costs to sell.
transactions and from the translation at sold, exchange differences that were year end exchange rates of monetary Current assets and disposal groups recorded in equity are recognised in the assets and liabilities denominated in income statement as part of the gain or are classied as held for sale if their foreign currencies are recognised in the carrying amount will be recovered loss on sale.
income statement, except when deferred through a sale transaction rather than Goodwill and fair value adjustments in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges through continuing use.
This condition arising on the acquisition of a foreign and qualifying net investment hedges.
is regarded as met only when the entity are treated as assets and liabilities sale is highly probable and the asset Foreign exchange gains and losses that of the foreign entity and translated at the or disposal group is available for relate to borrowings and cash and cash closing rate.
immediate sale in its present condition.
equivalents are presented in the income Management must be committed to statement within finance income or Pre-contract bid costs the sale which should be expected to cost.
All other foreign exchange gains Pre-contract costs are expensed as qualify for recognition as a completed and losses are presented in the income incurred until the group is appointed sale within one year from the date statement within operating expenses.
Preferred bidder status of classication.
Translation differences on non-monetary provides sufficient confidence that the financial assets and liabilities are reported conclusion of the contract is probable, Segment reporting as part of the fair value gain or loss.
the outcome can be reliably measured Operating segments are reported in Translation differences on non-monetary and is expected to generate sufficient a manner consistent with the internal financial assets and liabilities such as net cash inows to enable recovery.
reporting provided to the chief operating equities held at fair value through the Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent decision-maker.
The chief operating income statement are recognised in to appointment as preferred bidder decision-maker, who is responsible profit or loss as part of the fair value are capitalised onto the balance sheet Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 126 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued under prepayments and accrued b Plant and machinery Costs associated with maintaining income.
The prepayment is expensed to computer software programmes are Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% the income statement over the period recognised as an expense as incurred.
per annum, depending on the class of of the contract.
Costs, which have Development costs that are directly the asset.
been expensed, are not subsequently attributable to the design and testing reinstated when a contract award of identiable and unique software c Textile assets and is achieved.
products controlled by the group are washroomequipment recognised as intangible assets when the Depreciated at rates of 20% to 40% following criteria are met: Property, plant and equipment per annum, depending on the class Land and buildings comprise mainly of the asset, and augmented where a it is technically feasible to complete factories and offices.
All property, plant necessary by amounts to cover wastage, the software product so that it will be and equipment are shown at cost less obsolescence and loss.
available for use: accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes When properties, plant or equipment are a management intends to complete the expenditure that is directly attributable sold, the difference between the sales software product and use or sell it: to the acquisition of the items.
proceeds and net book value is included a there is an ability to use or sell the Textile assets such as garments and in the income statement.
software product: linen and washroom equipment which Residual values and useful lives of assets are owned by the group entities where a it can be demonstrated how the are reviewed annually and amended substantially all the risks and rewards of software product will generate where necessary.
ownership of such equipment is retained probable future economic benets: by group entities are capitalised as nona adequate technical, financial and Intangible assets current assets and depreciated over their other resources to complete the estimated useful lives.
a Goodwill development and to use or sell the Depreciation of assets is calculated using software product are available: and Goodwill represents the excess of the straight-line method to allocate the the cost of an acquisition over the a the expenditure attributable cost of each asset to its residual value fair value of the groups share of the to the software productduring over its estimated useful life, as follows: net identiable assets of the acquired its development can be subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
a Land and buildings Goodwill net of amortisation prior to Directly attributable costs that are Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum 1 January 2005 in respect of business capitalised as part of the software on an estimate of the buildings value combinations made since 1 January product include the software of freehold properties and leasehold 1998 is included within intangible development employee costs properties with 50 or more years assets.
Goodwill in respect of business and an appropriate portion of unexpired at the balance sheet date.
combinations made on or before relevant overheads.
This rate has been determined having 31 December 1997 remains eliminated regard to the groups practice to against reserves.
Other development expenditures maintain these assets in a continual that do not meet these criteria Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
state of sound repair and to extend are recognised as an expense and make improvements from time to Goodwill is tested annually for as incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
impairment or if there is an indication previously recognised as an expense Short leasehold land and buildings are of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated are not recognised as an asset in a depreciated by equal instalments over to groups of cash-generating units for subsequent period.
the purpose of impairment testing.
Computer software development costs Gains and losses on the disposal of an Major renovations are depreciated over recognised as assets are amortised over entity include the carrying amount of the remaining useful life of the related their estimated useful lives, which does goodwill relating to the entity sold except asset or to the scheduled date of the not exceed five years.
for goodwill eliminated against reserves.
next major renovation, whichever is sooner.
b Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 127 c Other intangible assets d Customer contracts Financial assets Other intangible assets includes the cost Intangible assets arising either from The group classies its non-derivative associated with the internal development legal or contractual rights which have financial assets as loans and receivables.
of textile related products for future sale.
been purchased are required to be The classication depends on the Development costs that are directly separately identied from goodwill and purpose for which the financial assets attributable to the testing of identiable are stated at historical cost, or in the were acquired.
Management determines and products controlled by the group case of intangible assets acquired as the classication of its financial assets at are recognised as intangible assets when part of a business combination, at fair initial recognition.
the following criteria are met: value.
The fair value attributable to the Loans and receivables are noncustomer contracts is determined by a it is technically feasible to complete derivative financial assets with xed or discounting the expected future cash the product so that it will be available determinable payments that are not ows to be generated from that asset at for use: quoted in an active market.
the risk adjusted weighted average cost a management intends to complete the of capital for the entity.
This amount is Derivative financial product and use or sell it: amortised over the period in which the company is expected to benefit from the instruments and a there is an ability to use or sell contracts acquired, over periods ranging hedgingactivities the product: from two to five years.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair a it can be demonstrated how the value on the date a derivative contract product will generate probable future Impairment of non-financial is entered into and are subsequently economic benets: assets remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of a adequate technical, financial and Assets that have an indefinite useful life recognising the resulting gain or loss other resources to complete the for example, goodwill are not subject depends on whether the derivative is development and to sell the product to amortisation and are tested annually designated as a hedging instrument, are available: and for impairment.
and if so, the nature of the item a the expenditure attributable to Assets that are subject to amortisation being hedged.
product during its development can or depreciation are reviewed for The group designates certain derivatives be reliably measured.
impairment whenever events or as either i hedges of the fair value of changes in circumstances indicate Directly attributable costs that are recognised assets or liabilities fair value that the carrying amount may not be capitalised as part of the product include hedge : or ii hedges of a particular risk recoverable.
An impairment loss is the product development employee associated with a recognised asset or recognised for the amount by which costs and an appropriate portion of liability, or a highly probable forecast the assets carrying amount exceeds its relevant overheads.
transaction cash ow hedge : or iii recoverable amount.
The recoverable hedges of net investments in foreign Other development expenditures amount is the higher of an assets fair operations net investment hedge.
that do not meet these criteria value less costs to sell and value in are recognised as an expense use.
For the purposes of assessing The group documents at the inception of as incurred.
Development costs impairment, assets are grouped at the transaction the relationship between previously recognised as an expense the lowest levels for which there are hedging instruments and hedged items are not recognised as an asset in a separately identiable cash ows and its assessment, both at hedge subsequent period.
Non-financial inception and on an ongoing basis, of assets other than goodwill that suffered whether the derivatives that are used Other intangible assets development impairment are reviewed for possible in the hedging transactions are highly costs recognised as assets are amortised reversal of the impairment at each effective in offsetting changes in fair over their estimated useful lives, which reporting date.
does not exceed five years.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are shown in note 16.
Movements on the hedging reserve are shown within the statement of changes in equity as part of other reserves.
The group holds no trading derivatives.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 128 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued a Fair value hedge d Derivatives that do not qualify for Cash and cash equivalents hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of the Cash and cash equivalents are stated derivatives that are fully designated and Changes in the fair value of any net of bank overdrafts, where the group qualify as fair value hedges are recorded derivative instruments that do not qualify has a legal right of set off and includes in the income statement, together for hedge accounting are recognised cash in hand, deposits held at call with with any changes in the fair value of immediately in the income statement.
banks and other short-term highly liquid the hedged asset or liability that are investments with original maturities of attributable to the hedged risk.
e Energy contracts and three months or less.
textileprocurement The group has no fair value hedges at The group occasionally takes out energy Share capital 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
contracts in relation to the supply of gas Ordinary shares are classied as equity and electricity.
In addition, from time to b Net investment hedge and are recorded at par value of time, the group may enter into forward proceeds received, net of direct issue Any gain or loss on the hedging contracts to buy cotton based textiles costs.
Where shares are issued above instrument relating to the effective at a future date.
Such contracts are par value, the proceeds in excess of portion of the hedge is recognised not recognised as derivative financial par value are recorded in the share directly against reserves.
The gain or instruments as they are held with the premium account.
loss relating to any ineffective portion purpose of the receipt or delivery of a is recognised immediately in the Where any group company purchases non-financial item in accordance with income statement.
the companys equity share capital, the entitys expected purchase, sale or the consideration paid, including any Gains and losses accumulated in equity usage requirements.
directly attributable incremental costs, are included in the income statement is deducted from equity attributable when the foreign operation is partially Inventories to the companys shareholders until disposed of or sold.
Inventories are stated at the lower of the shares are cancelled, reissued or cost and net realisable value.
Where such shares are c Cash ow hedge determined using the first in, first out subsequently sold or reissued, any The effective portion of changes in FIFO method.
The cost of nished consideration received, net of any the fair value of derivatives that are goods comprises of raw materials, direct directly attributable incremental costs, designated to qualify as cash ow labour, other direct costs and related is included in equity attributable to the hedges are recognised in equity.
The groups cash ow hedges which value is the estimated selling price in are in respect of cross-currency interest the ordinary course of business, less Trade payables rate swaps, interest rate swaps and applicable variable selling expenses.
forward foreign exchange contracts Trade payables are obligations Full provision is made for obsolete, result in recognition in either profit to pay for goods or services that defective and slow moving stock.
and loss reserve, reecting the foreign have been acquired in the ordinary During the year the group reclassied currency translation element, or in the course of business from suppliers.
stocks of textile rental garments awaiting hedging reserve which forms part of Accounts payable are classied as delivery to customers from property, other reserves.
current liabilities if payment is due plant and equipment to inventories.
within one year or less or in the normal Seenote 10.
When a hedging instrument expires or is operating cycle of the business if longer.
sold, or when the hedge no longer meets If not, they are presented as nonTrade and other receivables the criteria for hedge accounting, any current liabilities.
cumulative gain or loss in equity at that Trade receivables are recognised Trade payables are recognised initially at time remains in equity and is recognised initially at fair value less provision for when the forecast transaction ultimately impairment.
They are subsequently fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective occurs.
When a forecast transaction held at amortised cost less provision for is no longer expected to occur, the impairment.
A provision for impairment interest method.
cumulative gain or loss that was reported of trade receivables is established in equity will be transferred to the when there is objective evidence that income statement.
the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the change in provision is recognised in the income statement.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 129 Deferred income tax assets are The net asset recognised in the balance Borrowings recognised to the extent that it is sheet in respect of dened benefit Borrowings are recognised initially at fair probable that future taxable profit will be pension plans is the present value of the value, net of transaction costs incurred.
available against which the temporary dened benefit obligation at the balance Any difference between the amount differences can be utilised.
sheet date less the fair value of plan initially recognised net of transaction assets, together with adjustments for costs and the redemption value is Deferred income tax is provided unrecognised actuarial gains or losses recognised in the income statement over on temporary differences arising and past service costs.
The dened the period of the borrowings using the on investments in subsidiaries and benefit obligation is calculated annually effective interest method.
associates, except where the timing of by independent actuaries using the reversal of the temporary difference Borrowing costs which are directly the projected unit credit method.
is controlled by the group and it is attributable to the acquisition, The present value of the dened benefit probable that the temporary difference construction or production of a obligation is determined by discounting will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
qualifying asset one that takes a the estimated future cash outows using substantial period of time to get ready Deferred income tax assets and liabilities interest rates of high quality corporate for use or sale are capitalised as part of are offset when there is a legally bonds that are denominated in the the cost of that asset, until such time as enforceable right to offset current tax currency in which the benets will be the assets are ready for their intended assets against current tax liabilities paid, and that have terms to maturity use or sale.
and when the deferred income taxes approximating to the terms of the related assets and liabilities relate to income pension liability.
Commitment and borrowing fees are taxes levied by the same taxation capitalised as part of the loan and The group recognises the surplus arising authority on either the taxable entity or amortised over the life of the relevant on its deferred benefit schemes to the different taxable entities where there is agreement.
All other borrowing costs are extent that it has a legal right to do so an intention to settle the balances on a recognised in the income statement in under the scheme rules.
the period in which they are incurred.
Current and past service costs, to the Tax is recognised in the income Borrowings are classied as non-current extent they have vested, are recognised statement except to the extent that it liabilities where the group has an in operating costs in the income relates to items recognised directly in unconditional right to defer settlement statement together with interest costs equity, in which case it is recognised of the liability for at least 12 months after on plan liabilities and the expected return in equity.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses Employee benets Current and deferred arising from experience adjustments incometax a Pension obligations and change in actuarial assumptions are The current income tax charge is credited or charged to the statement of The group operates various pension calculated on the basis of the tax laws comprehensive income and expense net schemes.
The schemes are funded enacted or substantively enacted at of deferred tax.
through payments to insurance the balance sheet date in the countries companies or a trustee administered For dened contribution plans, the where the groups subsidiaries operate fund, determined by periodic actuarial group pays contributions to publicly or and generate taxable income.
The group has both dened privately administered pension insurance benefit and dened contribution plans.
Deferred income tax is recognised, or trustee administered plans on a A dened benefit plan is a pension using the liability method, on temporary mandatory, contractual or voluntary plan that defines an amount of pension differences arising between the tax basis.
The group has no further payment benefit that an employee will receive on bases of assets and liabilities and their obligations once the contributions retirement, usually dependent on one carrying amounts in the consolidated have been paid.
The contributions are or more factors such as age, years of financial statements.
However, the recognised as employee benefit expense service and compensation.
A dened deferred income tax is not accounted when they are due.
Prepaid contributions contribution plan is a pension plan under for, if it arises from initial recognition are recognised as an asset to the extent which the group pays xed contributions of an asset or liability in a transaction that a cash refund or a reduction in the into a separate entity.
The group has other than a business combination that future payments is available.
no legal or constructive obligations to at the time of the transaction affects pay further contributions if the fund neither accounting nor taxable profit or does not hold sufficient assets to pay loss.
Deferred income tax is determined all employees the benets relating to using tax rates and laws that have been employee service in the current and enacted or substantively enacted by the prior periods.
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 130 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements continued b Share-based payment plans A provision for onerous contracts is aconstant periodic rate of interest on the recognised when the expected benets remaining balance of the liability for each The groups management awards to be derived by the group from a period.
Property, plant and equipment employees share options, from time to contract are lower than the unavoidable acquired under finance leases are time, both on a discretionary and noncost of meeting its obligations under depreciated over the shorter of the discretionary basis which are subject the contract.
assets useful life and the lease term.
The economic cost of awarding the share options to its Leases where the lessor retains Revenue recognition employees is recognised as an employee substantially all the risks and rewards of benefit expense in the income statement Group revenue comprises the fair value ownership are classied as operating equivalent to the fair value of the benefit for the rendering of services, net of leases.
Payments made under operating awarded.
The fair value is determined by value added tax and other similar sales leases net of any incentives received reference to the Black-Scholes option based taxes, rebates and discounts and from the lessor are charged to the pricing model.
The charge is recognised after eliminating sales within the group.
income statement on a straight-line basis in the income statement over the vesting Revenue is recognised as follows: over the period of the lease.
a Service income Dividend distribution The proceeds received are credited to Income received or receivable in respect share capital nominal value and share Final dividend distribution to the of service income is credited to revenue premium when the options are exercised.
companys shareholders is recognised as and when services are rendered as a liability in the groups financial in respect of mats, linen, washroom c Termination benets statements in the period in which and decontamination services.
the dividends are approved by Termination benets are payable Revenue is recognised on a per item the companys shareholders.
when an employment is terminated basis for delivery of laundered textiles Interim dividends are recognised before the normal retirement date, to hotels and hospitals.
or whenever an employee accepts supply and laundering of workwear voluntary redundancy in exchange for is recognised on a regular, periodic these benets.
The group recognises Income statement basis in accordance with the terms of termination benets when it is shown presentation the contract.
to be committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees a Exceptional items b Sale of goods revenue according to a detailed formal plan Items that are non-recurring and For non-contract based business, without possibility of withdrawal: or material in size or non-operating in revenue represents the value of providing termination benets as a nature are presented as exceptional goods delivered.
result of an offer made to encourage items in the income statement.
The directors are of the opinion that Accrued income comprises revenue separate recording of exceptional contractually earned for services d Holiday pay items provides helpful information performed that are invoiced to about the groups underlying business Paid holidays are regarded as an the customer primarily in the performance.
Examples of events, employee benefit and as such are following month.
which may give rise to the classication charged to the income statement as the of items as exceptional include, inter benets are earned.
An accrual is made Leases alia, restructuring of businesses, gains at the balance sheet date to reect the Leases of property, plant and equipment and losses on disposal of properties, fair value of holidays earned but not where the group has substantially all strategy related costs, acquisition costs, yet taken.
the risks and rewards of ownership impairment of goodwill and nonare classied as finance leases.
Provisions Finance leases are capitalised at the Provisions for vacant properties, leases commencement at the lower b Amortisation of customer contracts restructuring costs, legal and of the fair value of the leased property These are presented separately in environmental claims are recognised and the present value of the minimum the income statement as they arise when the group has a present legal or lease payments.
Each lease payment from acquisitions.
constructive obligation as a result of past is allocated between the liability and events and it is more likely than not that finance charges so as to achieve a c Other operating expenses an outow of resources will be required constant rate on the finance balance to settle the obligation: and the amount These comprise the groups intangible outstanding.
The corresponding lease has been reliably estimated.
asset amortisation and exceptional items.
obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long-term payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 131 the presence of competition, or lower c Income taxes Key assumptions and sources than anticipated sales could result in At 31 December 2015, the net of estimation uncertainty shortened useful lives or impairment.
liability forcurrent income taxes is The preparation of the consolidated 13.2 million and the net liability for financial statements in conformity b Pensions and other postdeferred income taxes is 58.5 million with IFRS requires management to employment benets note19.
Estimates may be required make estimates and assumptions The group operates a number of dened in determining the level of current and that affect the application of policies benefit schemes within the UK and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and reported amounts of assets, Europe note 27.
As at 31 December which management believes are liabilities, income, expenses and 2015 the present value of the groups reasonable and adequately recognises related disclosures.
The estimates and dened benefit obligation for funded any income tax related uncertainties.
underlying assumptions are based on plans was a surplus of 44.6 million historical experience and other relevant Various factors may have favourable and a deficit of 28.8 million for factors.
This approach forms the basis or unfavourable effects on the income unfunded plans.
The calculations of the of making the judgements about tax assets and liabilities.
These include recognised assets and liabilities from carrying values of assets and liabilities changes in tax laws in the jurisdiction such plans are based upon statistical that are not readily apparent from other we operate in, tax rates, interpretations and actuarial calculations.
Actual results may differ from of existing tax laws, future levels the present value of the dened benefit these estimates.
of spending and in overall levels of obligation is impacted by assumptions future earnings.
The estimates and underlying on discount rates used to arrive at the assumptions are reviewed on an present value of future pension liabilities, d Share-based payments ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting and assumptions on future increases The economic cost of awarding shares estimates may be necessary if there are in salaries and benets.
Furthermore, and share options to employees is changes in the circumstances on which the groups independent actuaries use reected by recording a charge in the the estimate was based, or as a result statistically based assumptions covering income statement equivalent to the fair of new information.
Such changes are areas such as future withdrawals of value of the benefit awarded over the recognised in the period in which the participants from the plan and estimates vesting period.
The fair values of the estimate is revised.
The actuarial awards are determined by use of the assumptions used may differ materially The key assumptions about the Black-Scholes model.
from actual results due to changes in future and key sources of estimation market and economic conditions, higher uncertainty that have a risk of causing a e Provisions or lower withdrawal rates or longer or material adjustment to the carrying value shorter life spans of participants and Provisions for vacant properties, of assets and liabilities within the next other changes in the factors being restructuring costs, legal and 12 months are described below.
These differences could environmental claims are recognised impact the assets or liabilities recognised when the group has a present legal or a Property, plant and equipment and in the balance sheet in future periods.
constructive obligation as a result of past intangible assets, including goodwill The last triennial valuation of the main events and it is more likely than not that The group has property, plant and UK pension scheme took place in an outow of resources will be required equipment with a carrying value of February 2013 and a further valuation to settle the obligation, and the amount 477.1 million note 10, goodwill with will be carried out during 2016. has been reliably estimated.
a carrying value of 367.0 million note 8 and intangible assets with a carrying value of 25.9 million note9.
These assets are reviewed annually for impairment by comparing the carrying value of the assets with the higher of the value in use or the sales values less costs of disposal.
Under the value in use method estimates are made of the future cash ows expected to result from the use.
If the carrying value of the assets exceeds the higher of the value in use or fair value less costs of disposal then any impairment is taken to the income statement.
Actual outcomes could vary from such estimates of discounted future cash ows.
Factors such as changes in the planned use of buildings, machinery or equipment, or closure of facilities, Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
