Strategic report Governance Financial statements Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements 187 Basis of preparation The company has adopted the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union EU and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS for the first time for the purpose of preparing financial statements for the period ending 31 of December 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of assets held for sale, and relate to the company as a single entity.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies, set out below, which have been consistently applied to all the years presented except for those detailed below where IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions.
These accounting policies comply with applicable IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing these statements.
The rules for the first time adoption of IFRS are set out in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 1 requires use of the same accounting policies in the IFRS transition balance sheet and for all periods presented thereafter.
Restated balance sheets as required under IFRS are included in notes 17 and 18 to these financial statements.
IFRS 1 permits companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
In preparing these financial statements the company has elected to take the following exemptions: a IFRS 2 Shared-based payments has not been applied to equity instruments granted before 7 November 2002.
Going concern The company meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities.
The companys forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the company should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
After having assessed the principal risks and other matters in connection with the viability statement, the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern statement basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further information on the companys borrowings is given in note 9.
Key assumptions and sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions about the future and key sources of estimation uncertaintly that have a risk of causing a material adustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next 12 months are pensions and other postemployment benets, income taxes and share based payments.
The nature of these risks is discussed further within the consolidated financial statements on page 131 of this report.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised within profit, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities such as foreign equity investments held at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Investments Investments are initially stated at cost.
Investments denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date, only to the extent that they are hedged by foreign currency borrowings.
All such exchange differences are offset directly in the income statement.
Investments are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset value has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future cash ows from the investment.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 188 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements continued Intangible assets Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives not exceeding three years.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less depreciation.
Costs include the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation and Amortisation Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Straight-line % Plant and machinery 2033 Short leasehold property 16.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 33 Deferred taxation Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the individual financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences can be recovered.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Tax is recognised within profit except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Dividend distribution Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised as a liability to the companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Pension obligations The company participates in a dened benefit scheme with a subsidiary undertaking and also has a dened contribution plan.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
The group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employees service in the current and prior periods.
The net asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the dened benefit pension plan is the present value of the companysshare of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the companys share of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 189 The company recognises the surplus arising on its identiable share of the deferred benefit scheme to which it belongs, to the extent that it has a legal right to do so under the scheme rules.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are stated net of bank overdrafts, where the company has a legal right of set off, and includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classied as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal course of the business cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value less provision for impairment.
They are subsequently held at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
The amount of change in provision for impairment is included within the income statement.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the amount initially recognised net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Commitment and borrowing fees are capitalised as part of the loan and amortised over the life of the relevant agreement.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Borrowings are classied as non-current liabilities where the company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The company designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedge : or hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow hedge.
The company documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items and its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are shown in note 10.
Movements on the hedging reserve are shown within the statement of changes in equity as part of other reserves.
The company holds no trading derivatives.
a Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are fully designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 190 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements continued b Cash ow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated to qualify as cash ow hedges are recognised in equity.
The companys cash ow hedges which are in respect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts result in the recognition in either profit and loss reserve, reecting the foreign currency translation element, or in the hedging reserve which forms part of other reserves.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting any cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity will be transferred to the income statement.
c Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity and are recorded at par value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where shares are issued above par value, the proceeds in excess of par value are recorded in the share premium account.
Share-based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments, an expense is recognised in the profit and loss account for the award to employees of shares in the companys UK HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme.
The company operates an Employee benefit Trust to hold shares in the company for certain of the groups employees.
These employees, who are members of the groups various share-based schemes are entitled to receive shares as compensation for their performance.
The trust ensures that the obligation of these share issuances to employees through the purchase of the shares with finance provided by Berendsen plc or the employee.
The company accounts for share-based payments as set out on page 130.
Detail of the companys share-based payments schemes are set out in full in note 20 of the consolidated financial statements.
Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
