Strategic report Governance Financial statements 179 29 Capital commitments As at As at 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements: Property, plant and equipment 31.7 19.1 30 Contingent liabilities The group operates from a number of laundries across Europe.
Some of the sites have operated as laundry sites for many years, and historic environmental liabilities may exist, although the group has indemnities from third parties in respect of a number of sites.
The extent of these liabilities and the cover provided by the indemnities are reviewed where appropriate with the relevant third party.
The company is currently defending a legal claim to the warranties received for any environmental damage that might have existed when it purchased laundry sites in Sweden.
The company expects to have its warranties, which were contractually received in a clear and unequivocal manner, to be confirmed in full.
The company does not expect to incur any significant loss in respect of these or any other sites.
31 Related parties There have been no significant related party transactions in the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: nil, except for key management compensation as set out in note 26.
32 Non-principal subsidiary undertakings The following entities complete the full list of the companys subsidiary undertakings.
The following subsidiaries represent the companys non-principal subsidiary undertakings.
All subsidiaries are 100% owned and consolidated, unless otherwise stated.
Company Class of shares held Country of incorporation UK and Ireland Acorn Services North West Limited Ordinary England Berendsen Finance DKK Limited Ordinary England Berendsen Finance Euro 2 Limited Ordinary England Berendsen Finance Euro Limited Ordinary England Berendsen Nominees Limited Ordinary England Camborne-Redruth Laundry Company Limited Ordinary England Cavendish Laundry Limited Ordinary England Charnwood Laundry Limited Ordinary England Combined Linen Service Limited Ordinary England Davis BIM Limited Ordinary England Davis FH Limited Ordinary England Davis JH Limited Ordinary England Eamont Vale Laundry and Cleaners Limited Ordinary England Fabricare Limited Ordinary England Fakenham Laundry Services Limited Ordinary England Guardline Newbury Ltd Ordinary England Hall & Letts Limited Ordinary England IH Decontamination Services Cardiff Limited Ordinary England Lakeland Pennine Group Limited Ordinary England Lakeland Pennine Limited Ordinary England Laundrycraft Limited Ordinary England Midland Laundry Group Holdings Limited Ordinary England Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
