1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.3 Remuneration policy report This section of the Report describes the overarching remuneration policy that guides the Remuneration Committees decisions.
Our remuneration policy has not changed from that approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs and so the remuneration policy as set out in the 2014 Annual Report continues to apply as set out in this section.
Contents of the remuneration policy report 4.3.
8 Remuneration policy for Executive Directors 4.3.
9 Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Section 4.4.
14 for remuneration policy for the GMC excluding the CEO This section of the Report was introduced last year as a result of new UK legislation, under which this policy report was required to be put to a binding vote at the Groups 2014 AGMs.
Shareholder approval was provided at those meetings, and this remuneration policy became effective for Directors of BHP Billiton immediately after the final 2014 AGM.
Under the UK legislation, this policy is binding only in regard to the Directors including the CEO and not for other members of the GMC.
The UK legislation requires BHP Billiton to present the remuneration policy for this vote at least every three years.
Where the remuneration policy report includes cross-references to other sections of the Remuneration Report or the Annual Report, these are solely for the purposes of assisting the reader to locate related information.
The referenced information is not part of the remuneration policy report.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors BHP Billiton currently has a single Executive Director, being the CEO.
Therefore, for simplicity, this section refers only to the CEO.
This remuneration policy would, however, apply for any new Executive Director role, in the event that one were created during the life of this remuneration policy.
In that case, references in this section to the CEO should be read as being to each Executive Director.
2 The purpose of remuneration at BHP Billiton The Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements reinforce the has an important role to play in supporting the implementation achievement of our success, as set out in Our Charter, and and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing are designed to ensure that the CEO takes a long-term approach performance, aligning the activities of management to the to decision-making and to minimise activities that focus only interests of shareholders, and in supporting Our Charter.
on short-term results at the expense of longer-term business growth and success.
The Remuneration Committee has considered Inside front cover of the Annual Report: Our Charter sets out the ways in which risk management and the long-term horizon our purpose, strategy, values and how we judge our success are reflected throughout BHP Billitons remuneration arrangements The Committee determines the appropriate remuneration for the CEO and all executives, and is satisfied that the approach for the CEO, taking into account his responsibilities, location, reinforces the desired behaviours.
skills, experience and performance within the Group.
In doing This is largely achieved through the Groups approach to STI so, the Committee recognises that levels of remuneration and LTI awards, which comprise a significant portion of total should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain a highly remuneration.
The equity component of any STI award is deferred skilled CEO, but also that the Group should avoid paying for a two-year period, and performance under the LTIP is measured more than is necessary for this purpose.
The actual rewards received by the CEO The key principles of our remuneration policy, which remain therefore reflect the Groups performance and share price over unchanged, are to: an extended period.
support the execution of the Groups business strategy It is the Committees view that this provides an appropriate in accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate focus on BHP Billitons sustained performance beyond the end for the organisation: of the initial measurement period.
This approach also provides provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain a transparent mechanism for clawback or adjustment in the event highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: of a restatement of Group results, through changes to the vesting apply demanding performance measures, including or non-vesting of deferred awards.
key financial and non-financial measures of performance: In addition, STI and LTI outcomes are not driven by a purely link a significant component of pay to our performance formulaic approach.
The Committee holds discretion to determine and the creation of value for our shareholders from that awards are not to be provided or vested in circumstances relative outperformance: where it would be inappropriate or would provide unintended ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and facilitate outcomes.
The Committee has no discretion to allow vesting the deployment of people around the Group: of equity awards when performance conditions have not been limit severance payments on termination to pre-established satisfied other than in the event of death or serious injury, contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making disability, illness that prohibits continued employment or total any unjustified payments.
and permanent disablement of the CEO.
