3 Components of remuneration continued 3 A DEP is provided when the award vests or is exercised.
The CEO will receive the value of dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from grant to vest or exercise.
The Committee intends that DEP will be provided in the form of shares, although the plan accommodates a cash equivalent.
A DEP is not provided in relation to any STI and LTI awards that are forfeited or lapse.
4 BHP Billitons TSR is a weighted average of the TSRs of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
5 The maximum award permitted with the LTIP rules as approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs is expressed as a fair value equal to 200 per cent of base salary.
A fair value takes into account the probability of meeting the performance condition and other factors.
The current plan design produces a fair value of 41 per cent of face value.
The maximum fair value of 200 per cent of base salary is therefore currently equivalent to a face value of 488 per cent of base salary 488% x 41% 200%.
This is shown as the Exceptional Maximum Award in the table.
However, it is current policy to provide a maximum award of 400 per cent of base salary which is therefore shown in the table as the Normal Maximum Award.
In any case, all LTI awards to the CEO will only be provided with prior approval by shareholders in the relevant AGMs.
6 The weighted median TSR means the median outcome when the companies are listed by their TSR, after weighting by market capitalisation.
7 The fair value is calculated by the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates.
It reflects outcomes weighted by probability, taking into account the difficulty of achieving the performance conditions and the correlation between these and share price appreciation, together with other factors, including volatility and forfeiture risks.
The fair value for the current plan design current comparator groups, outperformance percentage, etc.
is 41 per cent of the face value of an award.
This fair value of 41 per cent may change should the Committee vary elements such as adding a performance measure or altering the level of relative TSR outperformance not specified in this remuneration policy report.
This fair value is different from the fair value used for IFRS disclosures elsewhere in this report.
In particular, the IFRS fair value does not take into account forfeiture conditions on the awards.
Malus and clawback The STIP and LTIP provisions allow the Committee to reduce or clawback awards in the following circumstances: the participant acting fraudulently or dishonestly or being in material breach of their obligations to the Group: where BHP Billiton becomes aware of a material misstatement or omission in the financial statements of a Group company or the Group: or any circumstances occur that the Committee determines in good faith to have resulted in an unfair benefit to the participant.
These malus and clawback provisions apply whether or not awards are made in the form of cash or equity, and whether or not the equity has vested.
Legacy incentive plans under which awards may vest The remuneration policy approved by shareholders is required to cover awards which were granted under legacy plans and which may vest in the future on their existing terms.
Key terms are shown in the table below.
Remuneration component Maximum value and link to strategy Operation and performance framework on vesting STI under the GIS The terms of STI awards provided under the GIS were similar to those provided The face value of under the STIP.
the award on vesting The former GIS was replaced plus the value of by the STIP described in the Awards were provided to the CEO for performance in FY2013, and vested in August 2015. any associated DEP.
20 for a table of awards held under the GIS Awards were provided for the same purpose as the STIP.
LTI under the former LTIP The terms of LTI awards provided under the former LTIP were similar to those provided under The face value of the new LTIP as described in the previous table, including the performance conditions.
the awards on vesting The former LTIP was replaced plus the value of by the new LTIP described in Awards provided to the CEO in December 2010 did not vest in FY2015, as the performance any associated DEP.
condition was not met, and lapsed.
Awards provided to the CEO in December 2011 and 2012 Awards were provided for the are due to vest from FY2017 to FY2018 to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
same purpose as the new LTIP.
7 for details of the 2010 LTIP performance outcomes Section 4.4.
21 for a table of awards held under the former LTIP 4.3.
5 Consideration of employment promotion remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited When setting remuneration for the CEO, the Remuneration or promoted CEO, or for another Executive Director should one Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, the be appointed, will reflect the remuneration policy as set out competitive environment and the positioning and relativities in this report.
The ongoing components will therefore comprise of pay and employment conditions across the wider base salary, pension contributions, benefits, STI and LTI.
A market competitive level of base salary, benefits and pension The Committee is briefed regularly about the pay and conditions contributions will be provided to a newly recruited or promoted of the wider employee population, and takes into account the CEO, or another Executive Director.
The same maximum STI and annual base salary increases for our employee population when LTI apply as per the remuneration policy for the current CEO.
determining any change in the CEOs base salary.
Salary increases The combined maximum level of STI and LTI that may be provided in Australia, where the CEO is located, are particularly relevant, is 728 per cent of base salary, which is the combination of the as they reflect the local economic conditions.
maximum 240 per cent of base salary in STI and the exceptional The principles that underpin the remuneration policy for the maximum 488 per cent of base salary in LTI as per the CEO are the same as those that apply to other employees, remuneration policy for the CEO.
although the CEOs arrangements have a greater emphasis For external appointments, the Remuneration Committee may on performance-related pay and a higher proportion of the determine that it is appropriate to provide additional cash and or CEOs total remuneration is variable in the form of STI and LTI.
equity components to replace any remuneration forfeited from Like those for the CEO, the performance measures used to a former employer.
It is anticipated that any foregone equity determine STI outcomes for all employees are linked to achievement awards would be replaced by equity.
The value of the replacement of the Groups strategy and behaviours aligned to the values remuneration would not be any greater than the fair value of the in Our Charter.
awards forgone as determined by the Committees independent Although BHP Billiton does not consult directly with employees adviser.
The Committee would determine appropriate service on Directors remuneration, the Group conducts regular employee conditions and performance conditions within BHP Billitons engagement surveys, which give employees an opportunity to framework, taking into account the conditions attached to the provide feedback on remuneration matters.
Many employees are forgone award.
The Committee is mindful of limiting such payments ordinary shareholders and have the opportunity to vote on AGM and not providing any more compensation than is necessary.
In FY2015, more than 14,000 continuing employees For any internal CEO or another Executive Director appointments, were enrolled to purchase BHP Billiton shares under Shareplus, any entitlements provided under former arrangements will be our all-employee share plan.
honoured according to their existing terms.
