Rail Line 1 Strategic Report continued 1.12.4 Iron Ore Business Since 2001, we have expanded our WAIO operations in response to increasing demand for iron ore, particularly from China.
We have completed eight expansion projects to increase our mine, rail and port capacity.
This includes our plan to continue to grow production following the recent completion of a number of expansion projects and ongoing debottlenecking of the supply chain to underpin potential further growth in capacity to 290 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
Our share of FY2015 production was 218.0 Mt of ore, which is expected to increase in FY2016 to 233 Mtpa.
Our Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing us to plan our development around a series of integrated mining hubs joined to the orebodies by conveyors or spur lines.
This approach enables us to maximise the value of installed infrastructure by using the same processing plant and rail infrastructure for a number Our Iron Ore Business, headquartered in Perth, of orebodies.
Australia, is one of the leading iron ore producers Lump and fines products are sold to steel mills in China, in the world.
We sell lump and fines products South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Switzerland and Australia under long-term and short-term contracts.
Contract prices produced in Australia and produce pellets from are generally linked to market indices.
In order to establish a consistent, long-term, high-quality lump ore product with a stable grade, we produce a blended lump product.
The product is a blend of lump ores produced from the Newman, Results Area C and Jimblebar mining areas, known as Newman Blend lump.
2015 2014 2013 During FY2015, 23 per cent of our sales were lump and 77 per cent Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M were fines.
Revenue 14,753 21,356 18,593 Our WAIO operations consist of four main joint ventures: Mt Newman, Yandi, Mt Goldsworthy and Jimblebar.
Our interest Underlying EBIT 6,932 12,102 11,109 in the joint ventures is 85 per cent, with Mitsui and ITOCHU owning Capital expenditure 1,930 2,949 5,979 the remaining 15 per cent.
The joint ventures are unincorporated, except Jimblebar.
Net operating assets 23,954 23,390 22,126 The Mt Newman Joint Venture JV consists of a number of Production iron ore Mt 233 204 170 orebodies joined by conveyors and spur lines to a mining hub at Mt Whaleback.
Ore is crushed, beneficiated where necessary A summary of the assets, development projects and FY2015 and blended to create lump and fines products.
The ore is then performance of our Iron Ore Business is presented as follows.
transported to port using Mt Newman JV-owned rail facilities.
The Yandi JV comprises the Yandi mine where ore is crushed and Description of the Iron Ore Business screened and then transported by rail on the Newman main line.
Our assets consist of the following: The Mt Goldsworthy JV consists of the Area C mine in the central Pilbara and the Yarrie mine in northern Pilbara.
Ore is crushed Western Australia Iron Ore Australia and screened at Area C and transported by rail to Port Hedland.
Operations at Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO involve an Production at the Yarrie mine in the northern Pilbara has been integrated system of mines and more than 1,000 kilometres suspended since 25 February 2014, following improved productivity of rail infrastructure and port facilities in the Pilbara region at our other mining operations.
The Jimblebar operation comprises of northern Western Australia, with our headquarters located the Jimblebar mine, located 40 kilometres east of Newman.
Our focus is to safely maximise output through operating Jimblebar delivered first production in the September 2013 quarter our mines and utilising available infrastructure at our disposal.
The Jimblebar mining hub ramped-up to a production rate exceeding 45 Mtpa during FY2015.
Map of Western Australia Iron Ore Our rail operations are controlled from Perth via our integrated remote operations centre, which co-locates rail control, Pilbara port production control, mine dispatch control and mine Region fixed plant control.
Perth Our port facilities are located on both sides of the harbour Port Hedland at Port Hedland.
These facilities consist of Nelson Point, owned Nelson Point Finucane Island by the Mt Newman JV, and Finucane Island, owned by the South Hedland Goldsworthy Karratha Mt Goldsworthy JV.
The port facilities include five ore car dumpers, Yarrie three lump rescreening plants, eight stackers, five reclaimers, Marble Bar stock and blending yards, and eight ship loaders.
Great Northern Highway Samarco Brazil Port Hedland Newman Rail Line We are a 5050 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco operation in Brazil.
Samarco currently comprises a mine and three Chichester Deviation concentrators located in the state of Minas Gerais, and four pellet plants and a port, located in Anchieta in the state of Espirito Santo.
Karijini National Yandi Three 400-kilometre pipelines connect the mine site to the Park Area C pelletising facilities.
Orebody 24 25 Orebody 18 Samarcos main product is iron ore pellets.
Extraction and Jimblebar beneficiation of iron ore are conducted at the Germano facilities Note: Location of markers Mt Whaleback Newman Wheelarra is indicative only Orebody 29 30 35 in the municipalities of Mariana and Ouro Preto.
Conveyor systems are used to extract the ore and convey it from the Existing Operations mines.
Ore beneficiation then occurs in concentrators, where Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Goldsworthy Rail Line crushing, milling, desliming and flotation processes produce iron concentrate.
The concentrate leaves the concentrators as slurry 42 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.12.4 Iron Ore Business continued and is pumped through the slurry pipelines from the Germano On 29 July 2014, BHP Billiton and ArcelorMittal signed an agreement facilities to the pellet plants in Ubu, Anchieta, where the slurry for the acquisition by ArcelorMittal of BHP Billitons 43.5 per cent is processed into pellets.
The iron ore pellets are then heat stake in Euronimba Limited, which holds an effective 95 per cent treated.
The pellet output is stored in a stockpile yard before interest in the Mount Nimba iron ore project in Guinea.
In May 2015, being shipped out of the Samarco-owned Port of Ubu in Anchieta.
ArcelorMittal terminated the transaction following failure to meet the conditions to closing by the agreed deadline.
We will continue Pellets are independently marketed by Samarco and to assess our options for the Mount Nimba iron ore project.
sold to steelmakers in 19 countries, with prices generally linked to market indices.
Liberia Iron Ore In FY2015, our share of production was 14.5 Mt of pellets.
BHP Billiton has a 100 per cent interest in a Mineral Development Agreement with the Government of Liberia.
This enables the More information on our assets and operations further exploration and development of our Liberian iron ore is presented in section 2.1.
Development projects in execution at year-end On 25 August 2014, BHP Billiton and Cavalla Resources signed a sale and purchase agreement for the acquisition by Cavalla Western Australia Iron Ore Resources of BHP Billitons 100 per cent interest in its Liberia WAIO has been executing a number of expansion projects iron ore project.
Completion of the transaction remains subject in recent years.
These projects, approved in March 2011 to the receipt of regulatory approval and other customary for a total of US$7.4 billion US$6.6 billion BHP Billiton share closing conditions.
plus pre-commitment funding of US$2.3 billion US$2.1 billion BHP Billiton share, were designed to deliver an integrated Performance operation with a minimum capacity of 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
Total iron ore production, including our proportional share of These projects, each of which are substantially complete, included: production for which profit is derived from our equity accounted the Jimblebar Mine Expansion project to develop the Jimblebar investments, increased by 14 per cent in FY2015 to a record 233 Mt.
mine and rail links, and procure mining equipment and rolling WAIO production increased by 13 per cent to a record 254 Mt stock in order to deliver a capacity of 35 Mtpa.
The project 100 per cent basis as a result of continued improvement in the costs as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$3.5 billion BHP Billiton performance of our integrated supply chain and the successful share.
Final costs are expected to be delivered below the ramp-up of the Jimblebar mining hub.
Continued optimisation revised budget of US$3.6 billion: of the port facilities and an increase in direct to ship ore resulted further development of Port Hedland, including two additional in record sales volumes at WAIO of 256 Mt 100 per cent basis.
berths and ship loaders, a car dumper, connecting conveyor Samarco production increased by 33 per cent to 29 Mt route, and associated rail works and rolling stock.
The project 100 per cent basis as the fourth pellet plant ramped costs as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$1.8 billion BHP Billiton up to full capacity.
Final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised Iron Ore revenue decreased by US$6.6 billion to US$14.8 billion, budget of US$1.9 billion: which included a 31 per cent decrease in revenue for WAIO of port blending facilities and rail yards to enable ore blending.
The major contributor to this The project costs as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$0.9 billion decline was a 41 per cent decline in average realised price of BHP Billiton share.
Final costs are expected to be delivered iron ore to US$61 per wet metric tonne FOB, which was partially below the revised budget of US$1.0 billion.
offset by an increase in WAIO sales volumes.
Our plan to continue to grow production following the recent Underlying EBIT for FY2015 decreased by US$5.2 billion to completion of a number of expansion projects includes ongoing US$6.9 billion.
The fall in the average realised price of iron ore debottlenecking of the supply chain to underpin potential further reduced Underlying EBIT by US$8.7 billion, net of price-linked growth in capacity to 290 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
costs, although this was partially offset by a weaker Australian dollar, which increased Underlying EBIT by US$499 million.
Western Australia Iron Ore Orebody 24 mine The improved performance of our integrated supply chain at WAIO In FY2014, WAIO completed execution of its development of the and the successful ramp-up of the Jimblebar mining hub supported Orebody 24 mine, located approximately 10 kilometres northeast an increase of US$1.9 billion volume impact to Underlying EBIT.
Orebody 24 is a sustaining mine to maintain iron ore Cost efficiencies from productivity initiatives increased Underlying production output from the Mt Newman JV operations.
The project EBIT by US$1.2 billion.
costs as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$0.6 billion BHP Billiton share.
Final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised Unit cash costs is one of the financial measures used to monitor budget of US$0.7 billion.
the performance of our individual assets.
More information on our development projects WAIO unit cash costs excluding freight and royalties declined is presented in section 2.4 of this Annual Report.
by 31 per cent to US$19 per tonne, underpinned by reductions in labour, contractor and maintenance costs, lower diesel prices Exploration activities and a stronger US dollar against the Australian dollar.
Western Australia Outlook WAIO has a substantial existing reserve base supported by Total iron ore production is forecast to increase by six per cent considerable additional mineralisation, all within a 250-kilometre in FY2016 to 247 Mt.
WAIO production is forecast to increase radius of our existing infrastructure.
This concentration of to approximately 270 Mt 100 per cent basis as a result of orebodies also gives WAIO the flexibility to add growth tonnes improved efficiency at Mining Area C, Newman and our rail to existing hub infrastructure and link brownfield developments and port operations.
to our existing mainline rail and port facilities.
The total area Further productivity improvements and the low-cost expansion covered by exploration and mining tenure amounts to 6,500 of the Jimblebar mining hub, which comprises the installation square kilometres, excluding crown leases and general purpose of a new primary crusher and additional conveying capacity, and miscellaneous licences, which are used for infrastructure are expected to deliver an increase in system capacity to space and access.
290 Mtpa 100 per cent basis over time.
Total exploration expenditure in FY2015 amounted to US$118 million.
Costs associated with the Jimblebar expansion, as well as the Guinea Iron Ore investment to purchase additional tugs and construct a new tug BHP Billiton has a 41.3 per cent interest in a joint venture that harbour at Port Hedland, are expected to be included within WAIOs holds the Nimba Mining Concession and four iron ore prospecting average sustaining capital expenditure budget of approximately permits in southeast Guinea.
WAIO unit costs are expected to fall to US$15 per tonne in FY2016.
