1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.4.
6 FY2015 STI performance outcomes The CEO scorecard for the FY2015 performance year is summarised in the following table.
A description of each performance measure and the CEOs level of achievement, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, are shown below the table.
The performance range is set for each measure with the level of performance determined on a range of Threshold the minimum necessary to qualify for any reward outcome, Target where the performance requirements are met, and Stretch where the performance requirements are significantly exceeded.
Performance for FY2015 Weighting Percentage Performance measure for FY2015 Threshold Target Stretch outcome STI US$000 HSEC 20% 0.0% 0 Attributable profit 40% 39.6% 1,077 Capital project management 20% 19.9% 541 Individual measures 20% 25.5% 694 Total 100% 85.0% 2,312 HSEC Notwithstanding the positive aspects of FY2015 HSEC performance outlined above, as a consequence of the five tragic fatalities, the The HSEC KPI for the CEO is aligned to the Groups suite of HSEC Board and Remuneration Committee decided, after taking advice five-year public targets as set out in BHP Billitons Sustainability from the Sustainability Committee, that it was appropriate to Report.
As it has done for several years, the Remuneration reduce the CEOs FY2015 HSEC STI outcome from 12.3 per cent to Committee sought guidance from the Sustainability Committee zero, reflecting the CEOs overarching accountability for the safety when assessing HSEC performance.
The Sustainability Committee outcomes of the Company.
reviewed performance against each of the designated measures.
Consistent with prior years, the Remuneration Committee Attributable profit then took a holistic view of how the Group had performed Profit after taxation attributable to members of the BHP Billiton in critical areas.
Group attributable profit is the primary measure used by the Targets for FY2015 Board when assessing the Groups financial performance.
For the purposes of assessing the actual reported outcome against a Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Nil fatalities directly comparable target, the attributable profit KPI is adjusted and nil actual significant environmental and community incidents.
for changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange movements, TRIF and occupational illness: Improved performance compared and exceptional items to ensure that it appropriately measures with FY2014 results, with severity and trends to be considered outcomes that are within the control and influence of the Group as a moderating influence on the overall HSEC assessment.
Of these, changes in commodity prices are Risk management: Each Business is to have all material risks with ordinarily the most material due to volatility in prices and the HSEC impacts recorded and controlled.
For all material risks impact on Group revenue.
Businesses to have all critical control designs and critical control assessment test plans reviewed by the material risk owner.
Targets for FY2015 Health, environment and community initiatives: All assets In respect of FY2015, the Board determined a target for attributable to achieve 100 per cent of planned targets in respect profit of US$1.7 billion, after the adjustments described above.
of occupational exposure reduction, water and greenhouse Performance for FY2015 gas projects, local procurement, social investment and Attributable profit of US$1.9 billion was reported by BHP Billiton, community complaints targets.
which was in excess of the target.
The key drivers of this Performance for FY2015 outperformance were higher than expected sales volumes, Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: particularly in Iron Ore and, to a lesser extent, in Coal and Petroleum, We tragically lost five of our colleagues in FY2015 and there together with positive productivity and cost performance across is no question that this is an unacceptable outcome.
As a a range of Businesses, particularly in Coal.
These gains were Company, we need to continue to build our focus on safety and partly offset by the impact of the Olympic Dam mill outage, water fatality prevention through leadership and effective processes.
constraints and weather conditions in Copper.
No significant environmental incidents occurred, however, there The adjustments for exceptional items in FY2015 described further were two significant community incidents for FY2015, both being in section 7.1.
6 note 2 of this Annual Report included an impairment collisions on public roads.
of Onshore US Assets net loss US$2.0 billion, the repeal of the TRIF and occupational illness: Our TRIF in FY2015 improved Minerals Resources Rent Tax legislation net loss US$0.7 billion, compared with FY2014 across BHP Billiton as a whole and in and an impairment of Nickel West net loss US$0.3 billion.
The most Businesses, with a two per cent reduction to a TRIF of 4.1 impairment of Onshore US Assets mainly reflected the Hawkville for FY2015.
Occupational illness rates increased due to the fields geological complexity, product mix, acreage relinquishments identification of legacy illness cases.
and amended development plans, together with the impairment of Risk management: All material HSEC risks that have been goodwill associated with the Petrohawk acquisition.
The acquisition identified are recorded, and critical control assessments have of Petrohawk was made in 2011, prior to the establishment of the been completed.
In addition, critical control execution and GMC in its present form.
Accordingly, the impairment had not been critical control verification tasks have been carried out in taken into account directly for the determination of the FY2015 STI accordance with requirements.
outcomes for the current GMC.
However, the impairment and the Health, environment and community initiatives: Greenhouse diminution in the value of Petrohawk assets has directly contributed gas reduction targets set at the commencement of the year to a zero vesting outcome under the 2010 LTIP for participants, were materially exceeded, with outperformance observed including the current CEO.
Targets set for water management, reducing Section 4.4.
7 for information occupational health exposures, local procurement plan on LTIP performance testing development and implementation, social investment and Notwithstanding this, the Board and Committee considers community complaints were achieved.
that the CEO should bear a partial impact of the impairment of Onshore US Assets, and decided it was appropriate to reduce the CEOs attributable profit FY2015 STI outcome by 7.5 per cent from 42.8 per cent to 39.6 per cent to reflect this.
