1 Strategic Report continued 1.3 Our Company We are BHP Billiton, a leading global resources company.
We are among the worlds top producers of major commodities, including iron ore, metallurgical coal, copper and uranium, and have substantial interests in conventional and unconventional oil and gas and energy coal.
1 Group overview Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, The long-term nature of our operations allows us to build expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography collaborative community relationships.
Our size and scope mean and market.
Our diversified portfolio of high-quality assets we can make a meaningful contribution to communities in which gives us resilience and flexibility to enhance value throughout we operate.
We aim to maximise the economic and social benefits the commodity cycle.
of our operations to contribute to global economic development, while minimising our environmental footprint, for example through We extract and process minerals, oil and gas from our production innovation, productivity and technology.
operations located primarily in Australia and the Americas.
We sell our products globally with sales and marketing taking We have strong governance processes in place, high standards of place principally through Singapore and Houston, United States.
ethical and responsible behaviour, and we are an active contributor As at 30 June 2015, our workforce consisted of approximately to societal development.
We care as much about how results are 80,000 employees and contractors.
achieved as we do about the results themselves.
During FY2015, we demerged a selection of BHP Billitons alumina, aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc assets into a new company, South32.
The safety and health of our people and of the broader communities in which we operate are central to the success of our organisation.
Regardless of where our people are located, the area of the organisation in which they work or the type of work they undertake, we strive to create an environment that is free from fatality, injury or occupational illness.
6 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.3.
3 Strategic context BHP Billiton operates under a Dual Listed Company DLC Across the globe, communities are experiencing structure, with two parent companies BHP Billiton Limited and transformational change economically, socially, technologically BHP Billiton Plc operated as a single economic entity, run by and environmentally.
As these accelerate and interconnect, a unified Board and management team.
Our headquarters are they create opportunities for innovation and improvement.
We aim to be at the forefront of these shifts and provide the resources needed to turn change into positive development.
BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX in Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing We supply the mineral and energy commodities that are crucial on the UK Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares are for all stages of economic growth.
Emerging economies require admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE in the construction materials like steel as their populations expand and United Kingdom and a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock new cities and heavy industry develop.
As economies grow and Exchange JSE in South Africa.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited people become wealthier, a consumer economy emerges and American Depositary Receipts ADRs and BHP Billiton Plc ADRs steel intensity slows while demand increases for materials that trade on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
are used in consumer goods, such as copper.
Increased income leads to a demand for agricultural commodities, including potash.
Our Operating Model describes the way the Company is organised The products in our portfolio are the raw materials that fuel and sets out the relationship between the Businesses, Group change and support an improvement in living standards for Functions and Marketing.
The Operating Model defines how we people in many parts of the world.
work, how we are organised and how we measure performance.
While short-term demand for commodities has moderated, Businesses: Our assets, operations and interests are separated our global energy needs are expected to increase by around into four business units.
These Businesses are: Petroleum and 30 per cent in the next 20 years.
Around two thirds of new Potash: Copper: Iron Ore: and Coal.
The Operating Model has demand will originate from Asia, with the majority from China been designed to ensure that decision-making remains as close and India.
Sub-Saharan Africa is expected to see the fastest to the Businesses as possible.
growth, albeit from a lower base.
Group Functions: Group Functions support the Businesses and By 2030, around 50 per cent of newly installed electricity capacity operate under a defined set of accountabilities authorised by in China and India is expected to be renewable energy.
However, the Group Management Committee GMC.
Our Group Functions even with the strong growth in renewables, the energy supply are primarily located in Melbourne, London and Singapore.
mix in these two Asian giants is expected to continue to be Marketing: Marketing is responsible for securing sales of our dominated by oil, coal and gas.
product: realising the full value of our products: managing the supply chain from resources to markets: supporting strategic Independent bodies such as the International Energy Agency decision-making through market insights: minimising operating believe that over the next few decades, fossil fuels will remain costs and optimising working capital.
central to the energy mix as their affordability and the scale of existing infrastructure often make them hard to practically replace, The core principles of the Operating Model include mandatory although their exact percentage varies across a range of scenarios.
performance requirements, common organisational design, common systems and processes, and common planning and reporting.
We think and plan in decades and generations, and we have long recognised that sustainable growth requires an effective response The Operating Model is designed to deliver a simple and scalable to climate change.
Responding to climate change is a priority organisation to achieve a sustainable improvement in productivity Board governance and strategic issue for our Company.
BHP Billiton by providing performance transparency, eliminating duplication accepts the IPCCs assessment of climate change science, which of effort and enabling the more rapid identification and deployment has found that warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human of best practice.
influence is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable.
We believe that the world must pursue the twin objectives of limiting climate change to the lower end of the IPCC emission scenarios in line with current international agreements, while providing access to reliable and affordable energy to support economic development and improved living standards.
Our strategic approach to climate change is underpinned by engagement with policy makers and other stakeholders, including investors, companies and non-government organisations.
Industry has a key role to play in climate change policy development by working with governments and other stakeholders to inform the development of an effective, long-term policy framework that delivers a measured transition to a low carbon economy.
BHP Billiton believes that any such policy framework should include a complementary set of measures, including a price on carbon, support for low-emissions technologies and measures to build resilience.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 7 1 Strategic Report continued 1.3.
4 FY2015 performance summary Two per cent 3 5.9 US cents 3 Basic earnings per ordinary share decreased by 86 per cent.
reduction 1 Total recordable injury frequency.
1 24 US cents Total dividend per share increased by two per cent.
U S$108 billion U S$4.1 billion Market capitalisation as at 30 June 2015.
4 Sustainable productivity gains delivered during FY2015.
U S$44.6 billion N ine per cent increase Revenue from Continuing operations decreased by 21 per cent.
Production increase on a copper equivalent basis in FY2015.
U S$19.3 billion S ix per cent reduction 2 5 Net operating cash flows decreased by 24 per cent.
2 1 Total recordable injury frequency for FY2015 includes the contribution from Continuing and Discontinued operations.
2 Includes Net operating cash flows from Discontinued operations of US$1,502 million which represents the contribution to operating cash flows from assets that were demerged with South32.
3 Presented on a Continuing and Discontinued operations basis.
4 Presented on a Continuing operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that were demerged with South32.
5 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions from demerged South32 assets are included in FY2015 total GHG emissions estimated between the date of demerger and 30 June 2015.
1 1 Attributable profit Underlying EBIT US$1.9 billion US$11.9 billion US$ million US$ million 25,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 20,000 15,000 15,000 10,000 10,000 5,000 5,000 0 0 1 Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued 1 Excludes data from Discontinued operations operations for the financial years being reported.
for the financial years being reported.
Dividends determined Community investment US$6.6 billion US$225 million US$ million US$ million 7,000 250 6,000 83 200 5,000 150 4,000 142 3,000 100 2,000 50 1,000 Corporate charities 1 Expenditure 0 0 1 Includes BHP Billitons equity share for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations.
Includes payments made by operations demerged with South32.
8 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 FY2011 FY2011 FY2012 FY2012 FY2013 FY2013 FY2014 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 FY2011 FY2011 FY2012 FY2012 FY2013 FY2013 FY2014 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.3.
5 About this Strategic Report This Strategic Report meets the requirements of the Strategic For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects Reporting required by the UK Companies Act 2006 and the or mines described in this Annual Report will be based, in part, Operating and Financial Review required by the Australian upon the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum Corporations Act 2001. products produced, which may vary significantly from current levels.
These variations, if materially adverse, may affect the This Strategic Report provides insight into BHP Billitons strategy, timing or the feasibility of the development of a particular project, operating and business model and objectives.
It describes the the expansion of certain facilities or mines, or the continuation principal risks the Company faces and how these risks might affect of existing operations.
It also gives our perspective on our recent operational and financial performance.
Other factors that may affect the actual construction or production commencement dates, costs or production output and anticipated We intend this disclosure to assist shareholders and other lives of operations, mines or facilities include our ability to profitably stakeholders to understand and interpret the Consolidated produce and transport the minerals, petroleum and or metals Financial Statements prepared in accordance with International extracted to applicable markets: the impact of foreign currency Financial Reporting Standards IFRS included in this Annual exchange rates on the market prices of the minerals, petroleum Report.
The basis of preparation of the Consolidated Financial or metals we produce: activities of government authorities in the Statements is set out in note 41 Basis of preparation and countries where we are exploring or developing projects, facilities measurement to the Financial Statements.
To obtain full details or mines, including increases in taxes, changes in environmental of the financial and operational performance of BHP Billiton and other regulations and political uncertainty: labour unrest: this Strategic Report should be read in conjunction with the and other factors identified in the risk factors set out in section 1.7.
2 Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.
We have excluded certain information from this Strategic Report, Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group to the extent permitted by UK and Australian law, on the basis that does not undertake to publicly update or review any forward looking it relates to impending developments or matters in the course of statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.
negotiation and disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the Group.
This is because such disclosure could be Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to misleading due to the fact it is premature or preliminary in nature, future performance.
relates to commercially sensitive contracts, would undermine confidentiality between the Group and its suppliers and clients, 1.3.
7 Completed demerger of assets or would otherwise unreasonably damage the business.
The categories of information omitted include forward looking In August 2014, we announced our intention to create a new estimates and projections prepared for internal management company through the demerger of a selection of assets that purposes, information regarding the Groups assets and projects included BHP Billitons interest in its integrated Aluminium which is developing and susceptible to change, and information business, Energy Coal South Africa, Illawarra metallurgical coal, relating to commercial contracts and pricing modules.
the Manganese business, the Cerro Matoso nickel operation and the Cannington silver-lead-zinc mine.
After receiving shareholder Section 1 of this Annual Report 2015 constitutes our Strategic approval for the demerger on 6 May 2015 with approximately Report 2015.
References to sections beyond section 1 are references 98 per cent of votes cast being in favour, the new company, to sections in this Annual Report 2015.
Shareholders may obtain South32, was listed on the ASX as an independent company on a hard copy of the Annual Report free of charge by contacting 18 May 2015 and the formal separation of South32 from BHP Billiton our Share Registrars, whose details are set out in our Corporate was completed on 25 May 2015.
Eligible BHP Billiton Limited Directory at the end of this Annual Report.
and Plc shareholders received shares in South32 in the demerger The Annual Report 2015 is available online at through a pro rata, in-specie distribution, as well as retaining w w w. bhpbilliton.
their existing shares in the Group.
For IFRS accounting purposes, the demerger was deemed 1.3.
6 Forward looking statements completed as of 8 May 2015 the date of loss of control and the demerged assets are treated as Discontinued operations This Annual Report contains forward looking statements, including in BHP Billitons Financial Statements.
Unless otherwise stated, statements regarding trends in commodity prices and currency throughout this Annual Report financial information for FY2015 exchange rates: demand for commodities: production forecasts: relating to the demerged assets is reported for the period from plans, strategies and objectives of management: closure or 1 July 2014 to 8 May 2015 as Discontinued operations, while divestment of certain operations or facilities including associated FY2015 production information relating to the demerged assets costs : anticipated production or construction commencement is reported for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 April 2015 dates: capital costs and scheduling: operating costs: anticipated to more closely align with BHP Billitons month-end reporting productive lives of projects, mines and facilities: provisions and systems.
Continuing operations refers to the assets that formed contingent liabilities: and tax and regulatory developments.
part of the BHP Billiton Group as at 30 June 2015.
Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of Comparative information for the years ended 30 June 2014 terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, and 30 June 2013 has been restated for the effects of the plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue or similar application of IFRS 5 AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale words.
These statements discuss future expectations concerning and Discontinued Operations following the demerger of South32.
the results of operations or financial conditions, or provide other The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the forward looking information.
Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Statement of These forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions Changes in Equity for these periods are not required to be restated.
of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, For more information on the South32 demerger and reporting uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our of Continuing and Discontinued operations, refer to sections control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially 1.6.
7 of this Annual Report and note 29 Discontinued operations to the Financial Statements.
from those expressed in the statements contained in this Annual Report.
Readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on forward looking statements.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 9 BHP Billiton locations United Kingdom Production Unit 6 29 Corporate O ice Algeria Joint Interest Unit 7 Pakistan Production Unit 4 27 Global Corporate 28 Services Centre Marketing and Corporate O ice Australia Production Unit Australia Joint Interest Unit 8 BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal 2 15 21 Western Australia Iron Ore 20 BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance Olympic Dam 22 11 13 17 Nickel West 24 Coal Head O ice 2 23 Iron Ore Head O ice 8 New South Wales Energy Coal Global Headquarters Australia Production Unit Australia Joint Interest Unit 25 Potash Head O ice 31 Corporate O ice New Mexico Coal 18 1 Onshore US 30 Petroleum Head O ice 9 3 Gulf of Mexico Joint Interest Unit Gulf of Mexico Production Unit 5 Trinidad and Tobago Production Unit 19 Cerrejn 14 Antamina 16 Samarco 12 Pampa Norte 10 Escondida 26 Copper Head O ice 10 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
