1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Small volumes of concentrate are sold into the external market: 2.1.
5 Other assets however, the majority of volumes are processed into nickel Nickel West matte, containing approximately 65 per cent nickel.
In FY2015, Our wholly owned Nickel West Asset in Western Australia consists we exported approximately 30 per cent of our nickel matte of an integrated system of mines, concentrators, a smelter and production.
The remaining nickel matte is transported, principally a refinery.
We mine nickel-bearing sulphide ore at our Mt Keith by rail, to our Kwinana nickel refinery, a distance of approximately and Cliffs operations, located north of Kalgoorlie.
The nickel matte is processed into nickel metal lives are discussed in section 2.3.
2. in the form of LME grade briquettes and nickel powder, together with a range of saleable by-products.
We operate concentrator plants at Mt Keith and at Leinster, which also concentrate ore from Cliffs.
On 31 October 2013, production Nickel West production in FY2015 was 90 kt of contained nickel.
at the Nickel West Leinster Perseverance underground mine was On 14 May 2014, we announced we were reviewing the long-term suspended following a significant seismic event.
A subsequent future of Nickel West, including considering the sale of some or all review of the incident determined it was unsafe to resume operations.
Having carefully considered all of the options available We also operate the Kambalda concentrator south of Kalgoorlie, to us, on 12 November 2014, we announced that Nickel West will where we source ore through tolling and concentrate purchase remain part of BHP Billiton, and that we will continue to operate arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We also it to process our known ore reserves.
have purchase agreements in place for the direct purchase of concentrate, which we re-pulp, dry and blend with other concentrate processed at Kambalda.
Ore from our Mt Keith mine is concentrated at Mt Keith and then transported by road approximately 110 kilometres to Leinster for drying.
Ore from the Cliffs and Leinster mines is concentrated and dried at Leinster.
Dry nickel concentrate is then transported via road and rail approximately 375 kilometres to our Kalgoorlie smelter.
Concentrate from Kambalda is transported via rail approximately 60 kilometres to our Kalgoorlie smelter.
Information on Nickel mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production refer to section 2.2.
2 and reserve tables refer to section 2.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Australia Nickel Nickel West Mt Keith Private road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Commissioned Open-cut On-site third Concentration 485 km north granted in 1995 party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Disseminated of Kalgoorlie, by Western by WMC turbines nominal capacity: concentrate textured magmatic Western Australia 11 Mtpa of ore transported Acquired in nickel-sulphide Contracts Australia Government by road to 2005 as part mineralisation expire in Leinster nickel Key leases of WMC associated with December operations expire between acquisition a metamorphosed 2023 for drying and 2029 and 2036 ultramafic intrusion Natural gas on-shipping sourced and Renewals at government transported under discretion separate long-term contracts Leinster 375 km north Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Open-cut On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted commenced party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Steeply dipping Western by Western in 1979 turbines nominal capacity: concentrate disseminated and Australia Australia 3 Mtpa of ore shipped by Acquired in massive textured Contracts Government road and rail 2005 as part nickel-sulphide expire in to Kalgoorlie Key leases of WMC mineralisation December nickel smelter expire between acquisition associated with 2023 2019 and 2034 metamorphosed Perseverance Natural gas ultramafic lava flows Renewals at underground sourced and and intrusions government mine ceased transported discretion operations under during 2013 separate long-term contracts Cliffs 481 km north Private road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Underground Supplied from Mine site of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced Mt Keith Nickel ore Steeply dipping Western Western in 2008 transported massive textured Australia Australia by road to Acquired in nickel-sulphide Government Leinster nickel 2005 as part mineralisation operations Key leases of WMC associated with for further expire between acquisition metamorphosed processing 2025 and 2028 ultramafic lava flows Renewals at government discretion BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 91 2 Business overview continued Information on Nickel smelters, refineries and processing plants Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal production or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product capacity Power source Nickel Kambalda Nickel concentrator 56 km 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Concentrate 1.6 Mtpa ore On-site third party gas-fired south of granted by containing turbines supplemented Ore sourced Kalgoorlie, Western approximately by access to grid power through tolling Western Australia 13% nickel and concentrate Contracts expire Australia Government purchase in December 2023 Key leases arrangements Natural gas sourced and in 2028 with third parties transported under separate in Kambalda region Renewals at long-term contracts government discretion Kalgoorlie Nickel smelter Kalgoorlie, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Matte containing 110 ktpa matte On-site third party gas-fired Western over the approximately turbines supplemented Australia property 65% nickel by access to grid power Contracts expire in December 2023 Natural gas sourced and transported under separate long-term contracts Kwinana Nickel refinery 30 km 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title LME grade 70 ktpa nickel matte Power is sourced from the south over the nickel briquettes, local grid, which is supplied of Perth, property nickel powder under a retail contract Western Also intermediate Australia products, including copper sulphide, , ammonium-sulphate 92 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
