3 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.14 Board committees The Board has established committees to assist it in exercising its authority, including monitoring the performance of the Group to gain assurance that progress is being made towards the corporate purpose within the limits imposed by the Board.
Each of the permanent committees has terms of reference under which authority is delegated by the Board.
The Company Secretariat provides secretariat services for each of the committees.
Committee meeting agendas, papers and minutes are made available to all members of the Board.
Subject to appropriate controls and the overriding scrutiny of the Board, committee chairmen are free to use whatever resources they consider necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
Reports from each of the committees follow.
The terms of reference for each committee are available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus our compan y go vernance.
3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Role and focus The role of the Risk and Audit Committee RAC is to assist the The RAC continues to monitor regulatory developments Board in monitoring the decisions and actions of the CEO and in relation to the audit regime and the role of risk and audit the Group and to gain assurance that progress is being made committees, and will continue to review and assess how towards the corporate purpose within the limits imposed these will impact the Group in the future.
In addition, the RAC by the Board, as set out in the Board Governance Document.
considered and discussed updates in relation to the recently concluded US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC The RAC discharges its responsibilities by overseeing: anti-corruption investigation, as well as the US Department the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements: of Justice investigation, and the ongoing Australian Federal the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence Police AFP investigation, which are outlined in section 3.17. and performance of the External Auditor and the integrity Risk and Audit Committee members during the year of the audit process as a whole: Name Status the plans, performance, objectivity and leadership of the 1 internal audit function and the integrity of the internal audit Lindsay Maxsted Chairman Member for whole period process as a whole: Malcolm Broomhead Member from 1 January 2015 the effectiveness of the systems of internal controls and Carolyn Hewson Member until 31 December 2014 risk management: the Groups systems for compliance with applicable Wayne Murdy Member for whole period legal and regulatory requirements within the RACs area Shriti Vadera Member for whole period of responsibility: capital management funding, liquidity, balance sheet 1 Mr Maxsted is the Committees financial expert nominated by the Board.
management, dividends : Business Risk and Audit Committees the CEOs compliance with the relevant CEO limits.
To assist management in providing the information necessary For further information about our approach to risk, refer to allow the RAC to discharge its responsibilities, Business Risk to sections 1.7.
1 and 3.15. and Audit Committees have been established, covering each The RAC met eight times during the year.
Information on meeting Business, and for key functional areas such as Marketing and attendance by Committee members is included in the table Treasury.
These committees, known as Business RACs, operate in section 3.12 and information on Committee members as committees of management, but are chaired by members qualifications is set out in section 3.2.
The responsible member of the GMC participates in those meetings.
Business RACs perform an important In addition to the regular business of the year, the Committee monitoring function in the overall governance of the Group.
discussed matters including the compliance organisation updates and anti-corruption plan, taxation, funding updates, Significant financial and risk matters raised at Business RAC meetings are reported to the RAC by the Head commodity price protocols, and continued development of the Assurance function.
Statements relating to tendering of Group Reporting and the Head of Group Risk Assessment and Assurance.
of the external audit contract, significant matters relating to the Financial Statements and the process for evaluating the external audit are set out below.
150 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Activities undertaken during the year Significant issues Fair, balanced and understandable In addition to the Groups critical accounting policies and estimates set out in note 44 Application of accounting estimates, Directors are required to confirm that they consider the Annual assumptions and judgements to the 2015 Financial Statements, Report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee also considered the following significant issues: and are required to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Carrying value of long-term assets model and strategy.
The Committee reviewed the carrying value of the US Onshore The Group has a substantial governance framework in place for the petroleum assets, including goodwill, and concluded that an Annual Report.
This includes management representation letters, impairment charge was appropriate.
In undertaking the review, CEO and CFO certifications, RAC oversight of the Financial specific consideration was given to the most recent short and Statements and a range of other financial governance procedures long-term prices, geological complexity, expected production focused on the financial section of the Annual Report, together volumes and mix, amended development plans, operating and with detailed verification procedures for the narrative reporting capital costs and discount rates.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the carrying value The RAC is required in its terms of reference to provide advice to of the following: the Board on whether the Annual Report meets the fair, balanced conventional onshore assets in north Louisiana, United States: and understandable requirement.
The RAC used the UK Corporate unconventional gas assets in the Pecos field of the Permian basin: Governance Code provisions to guide its oversight of the project conventional oil and gas Neptune field in the Gulf of Mexico, plans that support the preparation of the Annual Report suite, and concluded that impairment charges on these assets were in order to provide the Board with appropriate assurance.
appropriate given specific consideration of most recent prices As part of the enhancements to the governance process, for both oil and gas.
which were put in place in FY2014, the following is required: The Committee reviewed the carrying value of the Nickel West ensuring all individuals involved in the preparation of any business when the proposed sale of the business was not achieved.
part of the Annual Report are briefed on the fair, balanced Specific consideration was given to most recent prices and foreign and understandable requirement, through training sessions exchange rates as well as anticipated cost savings and potential for each content manager that detail the key attributes development options.
of fair, balanced and understandable: The Committee reviewed the carrying value of Cerro Colorado and employees who have been closely involved in the preparation concluded that an impairment charge was appropriate.
Specific of the Financial Statements review the entire narrative for consideration was given to the recent foreign exchange and copper the fair, balanced and understandable requirement, and price curves together with the likelihood of the extension of sign off an appropriate sub-certification: environmental permits, which directly impacted the life of the asset.
key members of the team preparing the Annual Report confirm they have taken the fair, balanced and understandable For further information refer to note 12 Intangible assets to the requirement into account and that they have raised, with the Financial Statements.
Annual Report project team, any concerns they have in relation Tax and royalty liabilities to meeting this requirement: The Committee reviewed the measurement and disclosure the Annual Report suite sub-certification incorporates a fair, of tax and royalty provisions and contingent liabilities including balanced and understandable declaration: the following: in relation to the requirement for the auditor to review parts transfer pricing estimates impacting taxes and royalties payable of the narrative report for consistency with the audited Financial in various jurisdictions: Statements, asking the External Auditor to raise any issues changes in the Chilean Tax law and the repeal of the Minerals of inconsistency at an early stage.
Resource Rent Tax in Australia: As a result of the process above, the RAC, and then the Directors, other matters where uncertainty exists in the application were able to confirm their view that BHP Billitons 2015 Annual of the law.
Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable.
Demerger of South32 The Boards statement on the Report is set out in section 5.
The Committee reviewed the measurement and disclosure Integrity of Financial Statements of the demerger of South32.
Specific consideration was given In addition to the assurance process above, the RAC continues to to Discontinued operations disclosures and the fair value of assist the Board in assuring the integrity of the Financial Statements.
the shares issued to effect the demerger.
The Committee also The RAC evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board considered measurement issues related to the South32 assets about the appropriateness of accounting policies and practices, prior to demerger, including the recognised gain on loss of areas of judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock control of the Manganese business and subsequent impairments exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external resulting from the demerged assets being held for distribution.
It reviews the half-yearly and annual Financial Statements Closure and rehabilitation provisions and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions The Committee reviewed the various changes in estimates including formal adoption of the Financial Statements and reports the Board should consider in order to maintain the integrity of the for closure and rehabilitation provisions recognised during the year.
Consideration was given to the results of the most Financial Statements.
From time to time, the Board may delegate authority to the RAC to approve the release of the statements to recently completed surveying data, current cost estimates and appropriate inclusion of contingency in cost estimates to allow the stock exchanges, shareholders and the financial community.
for both known and residual risks.
For the FY2015 full year and the half year, the CEO and CFO have certified that the Groups financial records have been properly managed and that the 2015 Financial Statements present a true and fair view, in all material respects, of our financial condition and operating results and are in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 151 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor determining whether the compensation of individuals employed by the External Auditor who conduct the audit is tied to the The RAC manages the relationship with the External Auditor provision of non-audit services: on behalf of the Board.
It considers the reappointment of the External Auditor each year, as well as remuneration and other reviewing the economic importance of the Group to the terms of engagement, and makes a recommendation to the External Auditor.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the The External Auditor also certifies its independence to the RAC.
RACs capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment Non-audit services as auditor.
Although the External Auditor does provide some non-audit The last audit tender was in 2002, at which time the Group had three services, the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor external auditors following the completion of the DLC structure.
are safeguarded through restrictions onthe provision of these The tender resulted in KPMG and  being services.
For example, certain types of non-audit services may appointed as joint auditors for FY2003 and, therefore, a reduction only be undertaken by the External Auditor with the prior approval in audit providers.
A competitive audit review was undertaken of the RAC as described below, while other services may not in 2003, which resulted in KPMG being appointed as the External be undertaken at all, including serviceswhere the External Auditor: Auditor by the Board on the recommendation of the RAC.
may be required to audit its own work: The lead audit engagement partners in both Australia and the participates in activities that would normally be undertaken United Kingdom have been rotated every five years.
The current by management: Australian audit engagement partner was appointed at the start is remunerated through a success fee structure: of FY2015.
A new UK audit engagement partner was appointed acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
for the FY2013 year-end, and therefore FY2017 is scheduled to be his last year.
The RAC has adopted a policy entitled Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor, covering the The Committee is satisfied with the External Auditors performance RACs pre-approval policies and procedures to maintain and independence and therefore does not believe a tender in the independence of the External Auditor.
the near term is appropriate.
Consistent with the UK and EU requirements in regard to audit firm tender and rotation, which Our policy on Provision of Audit and Other Services by the were finalised during FY2015, the Committees current intention External Auditor is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus ourcompany go vernance.
is to conduct an audit firm tender for FY2019.
In addition to audit services, the External Auditor will be Evaluation of External Auditor and external audit process permitted to provide other non-audit services that are not, The RAC evaluates the performance of the External Auditor and are not perceived to be, in conflict with the role of during its term of appointment against specified criteria, including the External Auditor.
In accordance with the requirements delivering value to shareholders and the Group, and also assesses of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act and guidance contained the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It does so through in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB a range of means, including: Release 2004-001, certain specific activities are listed in the Committee considers the External Audit Plan, in particular our detailed policy that have been pre-approved by the RAC.
to gain assurance that it is tailored to reflect changes in circumstances from the prior year: The categories of pre-approved services are as follows: throughout the year, the Committee meets with the audit Audit services work that constitutes the agreed scope of the partners, particularly the lead Australian and UK audit statutory audit and includes the statutory audits of the Group engagement partners, without management present: and its entities including interim reviews.
The RAC will monitor the audit services engagements and approve, if necessary, following the completion of the audit, the Committee considers any changes in terms and conditions resulting from changes the quality of the External Auditors performance drawing in audit scope, Group structure or other relevant events.
The survey is based on a two-way feedback model where the BHP Billiton and KPMG teams assess each Audit-related assurance services work that is outside the other against a range of criteria.
The criteria against which required scope of the statutory audit, but is consistent with the BHP Billiton team evaluates KPMGs performance include the role of the external statutory auditor.
This category includes ethics and integrity, insight, service quality, communication work that is reasonably related to the performance of an audit and reporting, and responsiveness: or review and is a logical extension of the audit or review scope, is of an assurance or compliance nature and is work that the reviewing the terms of engagement of the External Auditor: External Auditor must or is best placed to undertake.
discussing with the audit engagement partners the skills and Tax services work of a tax nature that does not compromise experience of the broader audit team: the independence of the External Auditor.
reviewing audit quality inspection reports on KPMG published Other advisory services work of an advisory nature that does by the UK Financial Reporting Council: not compromise the independence of the External Auditor.
overseeing and approving where relevant non-audit services as described below.
Activities not listed specifically are therefore not pre-approved and must be approved by the RAC prior to engagement, regardless The RAC also reviews the integrity, independence and objectivity of the dollar value involved.
Additionally, any engagement for of the External Auditor, and assesses whether there is any element other services with a value over US$100,000, even if listed as of the relationship that impairs, or appears to impair, the External a pre-approved service, can only be approved by the RAC, Auditors judgement of independence.
This review includes: and all engagements for other services, whether pre-approved confirming that the External Auditor is, in its judgement, or not, and regardless of the dollar value involved, are reported independent of the Group: quarterly to the RAC.
obtaining from the External Auditor an account of all relationships between the External Auditor and the Group: monitoring the number of former employees of the External Auditor currently employed in senior positions within the Group: considering the various relationships between the Group and the External Auditor: 152 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued While not specifically prohibited by BHP Billitons policy, any arrangements for protecting intellectual property and other proposed non-audit engagement of the External Auditor relating non-physical assets: to internal control such as a review of internal controls or assistance operational effectiveness of the Business RAC structures: with implementing the regulatory requirements, including those overseeing the adequacy of the internal controls and allocation of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act must obtain specific prior of responsibilities for monitoring internal financial controls.
With the exception of the external audit For further discussion on our approach to risk management, of the Group Financial Statements, any engagement identified refer to sections 1.7 and 3.15 of this Annual Report.
Section 1.7 that contains an internal control-related element is not considered includes a description of the material risks that could affect to be pre-approved.
In addition, while the categories shown above BHP Billiton including, but not limited to, economic, environment include a list of certain pre-approved services, the use of the and social sustainability risks to which the Group has a material External Auditor to perform such services shall always be subject exposure.
3 also provides an explanation of how those to our overriding governance practices as articulated in the policy.
An exception can be made to the above policy where such an During the year, the Board conducted reviews of the effectiveness exception is in BHP Billitons interests and appropriate arrangements of the Groups systems of risk management and internal controls are put in place to ensure the integrity and independence of for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual Report in the External Auditor.
Any such exception requires the specific accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code including prior approval of the RAC and must be reported to the Board.
the Turnbull Guidance and the Principles and Recommendations No exceptions were approved during the year ended 30 June 2015. published by the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Corporate In addition, the RAC approved no services during the year ended Governance Council.
These reviews covered financial, operational 30 June 2015 pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of and compliance controls and risk assessment.
During the year, SEC Regulation S-X.
management presented an assessment of the material business risks facing the Group and the level of effectiveness of risk Fees paid to the Groups External Auditor during the year for audit management over the material business risks.
The reviews were and other services were US$30.4 million, of which 51 per cent overseen by the RAC, with findings and recommendations reported comprised audit fees, 45 per cent related to legislative requirements to the Board.
In addition to considering key risks facing the Group, including Sarbanes-Oxley and services in connection with the the Board received an assessment of the effectiveness of internal South32 demerger and four per cent was for other services.
Details controls over key risks identified through the work of the Board of the fees paid are set out in note 38 Auditors remuneration to the committees.
The Board is satisfied that the effectiveness of the Financial Statements.
internal controls has been properly reviewed.
Based on the review by the RAC, the Board is satisfied that the Managements assessment of our internal External Auditor is independent.
control over financial reporting Internal Audit Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining The Internal Audit function is carried out by Group Risk Assessment adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined and Assurance RAA.
The role of RAA is to determine whether in Rule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the 1934 Securities Exchange risk management, control and governance processes are adequate Act.
Under the supervision and with the participation of our and functioning.
The Internal Audit function is independent management, including our CEO and CFO, the effectiveness of the External Auditor.
The RAC reviews the mission and charter of the Groups internal control over financial reporting has been of RAA, the staffing levels and its scope of work to ensure that it evaluated based on the framework and criteria established in is appropriate in light of the key risks we face.
It also reviews and Internal Controls Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee approves the annual internal audit plan and monitors and reviews of the Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission the overall effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as at The RAC also approves the appointment and dismissal of the 30 June 2015.
There were no material weaknesses in the Groups Head of RAA and assesses his or her performance, independence internal controls over financial reporting identified by management.
The role of the Head of RAA includes achievement of the internal audit objectives, risk management policies and Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial insurance strategy.
The position was held throughout the year reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements and, even by Alistair Mytton.
Mr Mytton reports directly to the RAC with when determined to be effective, can only provide reasonable functional oversight by the CFO.
assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and Effectiveness of systems of internal control and risk management presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become In delegating authority to the CEO, the Board has established inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree CEO limits set out in the Board Governance Document.
Limits on of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
the CEOs authority require the CEO to ensure that there is a system of control in place for identifying and managing risk in the Group.
BHP Billiton has engaged our independent registered public The Directors, through the RAC, review the systems that have accounting firms, KPMG and KPMG LLP, to issue an audit report been established for this purpose and regularly review their on our internal control over financial reporting for inclusion in the effectiveness.
These reviews include assessing whether processes Financial Statements section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F continue to meet evolving external governance requirements.
The RAC is responsible for the oversight of risk management There have been no changes in our internal control over financial and reviews the internal controls and risk management systems.
reporting during FY2015 that have materially affected, or are In undertaking this role, the RAC reviews the following: reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over procedures for identifying business and operational risks financial reporting.
and controlling their financial impact on the Group and The CEO and CFO have certified to the Board that the Financial the operational effectiveness of the policies and procedures Statements for the full year and half year are founded on a sound related to risk and control: system of risk management and internal control and that the budgeting and forecasting systems, financial reporting systems system is operating efficiently and effectively.
and controls: During the year, the RAC reviewed our compliance with the policies and practices put in place by the CEO for detecting, obligations imposed by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX, reporting and preventing fraud and serious breaches of business including evaluating and documenting internal controls conduct and whistle-blowing procedures: as required by section 404 of SOX.
procedures for ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory and legal requirements: BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 153 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report continued Managements assessment of our disclosure There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system controls and procedures of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the Our management, with the participation of our CEO and CFO, controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure has performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of achieving their control objectives.
Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the material financial and Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls non-financial information required to be disclosed by BHP Billiton, and procedures, our management was necessarily required including in the reports that it files or submits under the 1934 to apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship Securities Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarised of possible controls and procedures.
and reported on a timely basis and that such information is Committee assessment accumulated and communicated to BHP Billitons management, An externally facilitated evaluation of the Risk and Audit Committee including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely was conducted for FY2015.
The evaluation was designed decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on the foregoing, to draw out views on work, process and overall effectiveness our management, including the CEO and CFO, has concluded of the Committee.
The evaluation indicated that the Committee that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in continues to operate effectively, with potential enhancements providing that reasonable assurance.
including additional consideration to ensure items such as capital management and internal audit are right-sized for the Group following demerger.
The updated terms of reference for the RAC are available online at w w w. bhpbillit on.
com aboutus our company go vernance.
3.14.2 Remuneration Committee Report Role and focus The role of the Remuneration Committee is to assist the Board Full details of the Committees work on behalf of the Board in overseeing: are set out in the Remuneration Report in section 4 of this Annual Report.
the remuneration policy and its specific application to the CEO and the CEOs direct reports, and its general application Remuneration Committee members during the year to all employees: Name Status the adoption of annual and longer-term incentive plans: 1 the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval Carolyn Hewson Chairman Member for whole period of reward to the CEOs direct reports: 1 John Buchanan Member for whole period the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, Carlos Cordeiro Member for whole period by giving guidance to the Group Chairman: the preparation of the Remuneration Report for inclusion Pat Davies Member for whole period in the Annual Report: John Schubert Member until 31 December 2014 compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements Shriti Vadera Member from 1 January 2015 associated with remuneration matters: the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
1 Carolyn Hewson was appointed as Chairman of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2015.
Sir John Buchanan, who was previously the Chairman, The Sustainability and Risk and Audit Committees assist the continued to be a Committee member for the remainder of FY2015.
Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate HSEC and financial and capital projects metrics, respectively, to be included in GMC scorecards and in assessing performance against those measures.
The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by Committee members is included in the table in section 3.12.
Committee assessment The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available An externally facilitated evaluation of the Remuneration Committee online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus ourcompan y go vernance.
The evaluation was designed to draw out views on work, process and overall effectiveness of the Committee.
The evaluation indicated that the Committee continues to perform strongly with potential enhancements including deeper understanding of the views of investors and the allocation of more time for training in relation to market practice as it develops.
154 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.14.3 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Role and focus The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to For the past three years, two executive search firms, JCA Group assist in ensuring that the Board comprises individuals who are and Heidrick & Struggles, have produced all-women short lists best able to discharge the responsibilities of a Director, having focused on the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States, regard to the highest standards of governance, the strategic which are continually refreshed.
The two lists combined with direction of the Group and the diversity aspirations of the Board.
our skills and experience profile five-year matrix ensure we It does so by focusing on: maximise the number of female candidates we talk with and consider for appointment.
Short-listed candidates are considered the succession planning process for the Board and its by the Nomination and Governance Committee.
During FY2015, committees, including the identification of the skills, experience, the Chairman met regularly with potential female candidates who independence and knowledge required on the Board, as well have a range of backgrounds.
as the attributes required of potential Directors: the identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the The Board believes that critical mass is important for diversity Board, taking into account the skills, experience and diversity and, as set out in last years Annual Report, the Board had a goal required on the Board, and the attributes required of Directors: of increasing the number of women on the Board to at least the succession planning process for the Chairman: three by the end of CY2015.
This has now been achieved with the appointment of Anita Frew to the Board.
She brings extensive the succession planning process for the CEO and periodic board, strategy, marketing, governance and risk management evaluation of the process: experience in the chemicals, engineering, water and finance Board and Director performance evaluation, including evaluation industries, along with a strong understanding of shareholder of Directors seeking re-election prior to their endorsement expectations.
While the Board has achieved its stated goal, by the Board as set out in sections 3.11 and 3.13: diversity of all types remains a priority as the Board continues the provision of appropriate training and development to be refreshed and renewed, as set out in section 3.8. opportunities for Directors: External recruitment specialists the independence of Non-executive Directors: There were changes to the composition of the Board during the time required from Non-executive Directors: the year, with the retirement of David Crawford with effect from the authorisation of situations of actual and potential conflict the 2014 AGMs and Keith Rumble with effect from 22 May 2015. notified by Directors in accordance with the Articles of The appointment of Anita Frew followed a process involving Association of BHP Billiton Plc as set out in section 3.10: and the retained services of external recruitment specialists the Groups corporate governance practices.
Heidrick & Struggles and JCA Group, which have assisted The process that the Board adopts for its own succession, in the identification of potential candidates for the Board, with the assistance of the Nomination and Governance as set out in section 3.8.
Committee, is set out in section 3.8.
Aside from conducting external searches, in previous years The Nomination and Governance Committee met five times Heidrick & Struggles Leadership Assessment has provided during the year.
Information on meeting attendance by services in respect of Director performance assessment.
Committee members is included in the table in section 3.12.
JCA Group has also provided non-executive search services and facilitated the external Board assessment.
In both cases, Board policy on diversity the search and assessment services operate independently, The Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee and neither firm has any other connection with the Group.
believe that a range of diversity is required in order to effectively Senior Independent Director represent shareholders interests.
This diversity is not restricted to gender but also includes geographic location, nationality, As set out in section 3.7, in August 2015 the Board announced skills, background, knowledge and experience.
that Shriti Vadera had been appointed as Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
The Board believes that Shriti Vaderas The Board is committed to ensuring gender diversity is actively skills and attributes, together with her experience with BHP Billiton pursued and implemented in terms of Board composition.
over the past four years will enable her to support the Chairman Diversity is a core consideration in ensuring that the Board and the Board in this important governance role.
and its committees have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge Nomination and Governance Committee members their responsibilities.
The right blend of perspectives is during the year critical to ensuring the Board oversees BHP Billiton effectively Name Status for shareholders.
Jac Nasser Chairman Member for whole period John Buchanan Member for whole period John Schubert Member for whole period Committee assessment The terms of reference for the Nomination and Governance An externally facilitated evaluation of the Nomination and Committee are available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus Governance Committee was conducted for FY2015.
The evaluation ourcompan y go vernance.
was designed to draw out views on work, process and overall effectiveness of the Committee.
The evaluation indicated that the Committee continues to function strongly.
A requirement for additional focus during succession planning on ensuring the Board is the appropriate size, and has the right mix of skills and experience, for a simplified BHP Billiton was noted as a result of the evaluation.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 155 S e l o p c o i e e t P y 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.14.4 Sustainability Committee Report Role and focus The role of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board Sustainable development governance to take reasonable steps in overseeing the: Our approach to HSEC and sustainable development governance adequacy of the Groups HSEC framework, which consists of: is characterised by: the CEO limits, which delegate authority to the CEO, the Sustainability Committee overseeing material HSEC matters including for HSEC matters: and risks across the Group: the Committee itself and its terms of reference: management having primary responsibility for the design and implementation of an effective HSEC management system: a robust independent assurance and audit process, established by the RAC: management having accountability for HSEC performance: independent legal and specialist advice on HSEC matters: the HSE and Community functions providing advice and guidance directly to the Sustainability Committee and the the Groups HSEC Management System: Board as a whole: adequacy of the Groups HSEC Management System, which seeking input and insight from external experts, such as the is designed and implemented by management.
It incorporates BHP Billiton Forum on Corporate Responsibility: the systems and processes, resources, structures and performance standards for the day-to-day identification, clear links between remuneration and HSEC performance.
management and reporting of HSEC risks and obligations, The key areas on which the Committee, management and which are articulated in Group Level Documents: the HSE and Community functions focus are outlined in Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory the diagram below.
requirements associated with HSEC matters: annual Sustainability Report: performance, resourcing and leadership of the HSE and Community functions: Keeping our Groups performance in relation to HSEC matters, including people and the HSEC component of the GMC scorecard.
Climate change operations safe Our approach to sustainability is reflected in Our Charter, Focusing on the health which defines our values, purpose and how we measure success, of our people and in our sustainability performance targets, which define our public commitments to safety, health, environment and Operating community.
Further information is set out in the Groups with integrity Developing Sustainability Report 2015. our workforce Our A copy of the Sustainability Report and further information focus is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus ourcompan y Making areas governance.
a positive contribution The Committee provides oversight of the preparation and Biodiversity to society management presentation of the Sustainability Report by management.
The Sustainability Committee met six times during the year.
Respecting Information on meeting attendance by Committee members human rights is included in the table in section 3.12.
Engaging Water During the year, the Sustainability Committee continued e ectively in communities to assist the Board in its oversight of HSEC issues and performance.
This included consideration of strategic HSEC issues, audits and trends, and the findings and action items from accidents and other incidents.
In relation to incidents, tragically there were five work-related fatalities during FY2015.
The Sustainability Committee has been presented with the In addition to our focus on the health, safety and wellbeing of findings and recommendations of the investigations in each our people, the Committee spent considerable time considering case.
This included direct causes, root causes and contributing environment and climate change scenarios and the actions being factors, along with the priority actions and responses of the taken to manage the implications of climate change regulation in management and Business teams.
light of the Groups public target for emissions through to FY2017, Sustainability Committee members during the year as set out in section 1.14.2.
Name Status John Schubert Chairman Member for whole period Malcolm Brinded Member for whole period Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period Pat Davies Member from 1 January 2015 Keith Rumble Member until 22 May 2015 156 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 E e n c v n i a r o n r n e m v e o n G t 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.14.4 Sustainability Committee Report continued Climate change HSEC matters and remuneration Climate change is treated as a Board-level governance issue In order to link HSEC matters to remuneration, 20 per cent with the Sustainability Committee playing a key supporting of the short-term incentive opportunity for GMC members role.
The Committee, along with the Risk and Audit Committee, was based on HSEC performance during the year.
Given the spends considerable time considering systemic climate change importance placed on safety, the short-term incentive opportunity considerations relating to the resilience of, and opportunities attached to HSEC has been increased for FY2016 to 25 per cent.
The Committee also receives reports The Sustainability Committee assists the Remuneration Committee on scenarios and sign posts, which point to longer-term directional in determining appropriate HSEC metrics to be included in change and considers actions to manage the implications GMC scorecards, and also assists in relation to assessment of climate change on the Company.
Further information on of performance against those measures.
The Board believes our climate change position and how we consider the impacts this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, on our portfolio is set out in section 1.14.2. and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
Further information on the metrics Community investment and their assessment is set out in the Remuneration Report We also continued to monitor our progress in relation to our in section 4. community investment, and met our target for investments in community programs, with such investments consisting of cash, in-kind support and administration.
This was the equivalent of one per cent of our pre-tax profits, calculated on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
During FY2015, our voluntary community investment totalled US$225 million, comprising US$142 million of cash, in-kind support and administrative costs and a US$83 million contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation.
The Committee reviewed and recommended to the Board the approval of the annual Sustainability Report for publication.
The Sustainability Report identifies our targets for HSEC matters and our performance against those targets, with an emphasis on fact-based measurement and quality data in setting targets.
Committee assessment The terms of reference for the Sustainability Committee are available An externally facilitated evaluation of the Sustainability Committee online at w w w. bhpbillit on.
com aboutus our compan y go v ernance.
The evaluation indicated that the Committee receives high-quality information and uses time effectively.
Additional areas of focus for FY2016 are an increased emphasis on community issues and continuing to undertake site visits.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 157 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.14.5 Finance Committee Report 3.14.6 South32 demerger Board committees In August 2014, the Board announced plans to simplify its portfolio In FY2012, the continued evolution of the Board and its by creating an independent global metals and mining company committees resulted in the formation of the Finance South32 based on a selection of its high-quality alumina, Committee.
At that time, the Board was of the view that the aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc assets.
governance structure was enhanced by a committee focused As part of the Board governance process supporting and on capital management planning, including capital allocation overseeing the demerger project, it was considered appropriate and funding, as well as due diligence on divestments.
to establish two sub-committees of the Board, the Board Assurances Committee and the Document Review Committee.
As noted in last years Annual Report, the Finance Committee also assisted the Board in its consideration of the creation Board Assurances Committee of South32 as a means of accelerating portfolio simplification.
Members of the Board Assurances Committee BAC were all The Committees considerations resulted in recommendations independent Non-executive Directors of the BHP Billiton Board: to the Board on the matters considered.
Shriti Vadera Chairman, Malcolm Broomhead, David Crawford, Since that work was largely completed, the Board undertook Lindsay Maxsted and Wayne Murdy.
The Board Chairman, the a review of the Finance Committee and it was decided that Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Document with effect from 1 January 2015, a separate focused committee Review Committee attended each of the meetings by invitation.
was no longer required by the Board.
The work around capital The BAC was tasked with considering the transaction plans management funding, liquidity, balance sheet management, and project execution, including reviewing and making dividends, which was previously handled by the Finance recommendations to the Board on matters such as: Committee, has become part of the terms of reference for the timetable for the project: the Risk and Audit Committee.
the outcome of external stakeholder engagement The Finance Committee met twice in the period 1 July 2014 and the progress of engagement with regulators: to 31 December 2014. proposed internal and external communications: Finance Committee members during the year the Transitional Services Agreement, the Separation Deed, the Tax Separation Deed and the Implementation Deed, Name Status each between BHP Billiton and South32: David Crawford Chairman Member until 20 November 2014 the funding of South32: 1 the steps required to implement the demerger proposal, Malcolm Broomhead Member for whole period including assembly of the various assets.
1 Lindsay Maxsted Member for whole period Project-related matters that would previously have been 1 Wayne Murdy Member for whole period considered by the Finance Committee were considered 1 R efers to whole period of the Committees existence during FY2015, by the BAC.
being from 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2014.
The Committee met five times and also considered some items out of session.
The final recommendation of the Committee was to endorse the demerger and to recommend it for Board approval.
Document Review Committee Members of the Document Review Committee DRC were Carolyn Hewson Chairman, David Crawford, Lindsay Maxsted, Peter Beaven, Geoff Healy, Graham Kerr, Jane McAloon, Karen Wood and Neil Beaumont, as well as certain external advisers.
The role of the DRC included: reviewing the overall nature and scope of the due diligence investigations undertaken in connection with the demerger: approving the materiality guidelines to be applied in the preparation of the disclosure documents: reviewing and where applicable, requesting reports and sign-offs from nominated persons including BHP Billiton and South32 management and legal, tax, accounting, mineral reserves or other experts in relation to the content of the disclosure documents: overseeing and coordinating the preparation and finalisation of the disclosure documents to ensure that they complied with applicable legal and regulatory requirements: reporting to the Board, prior to dispatch of the disclosure documents, confirming that they comply with the relevant content requirements.
The Committee met nine times and also considered some items out of session.
With the completion of the South32 demerger in May 2015, both the BAC and DRC sub-committees have been dissolved.
For further information on the South32 demerger, refer to sections 1.3.
7 of this Annual Report and note 29 Discontinued operations to the Financial Statements.
