1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.1 Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman The outcomes for FY2015 continue to demonstrate the alignment between remuneration and performance at BHP Billiton.
Carolyn Hewson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce BHP Billitons Remuneration Report and again, after review in 2015, it will remain unchanged at for the financial year to 30 June 2015.
This is my first as US$1.700 million per annum.
In addition, the other components Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and I want to begin of his total target remuneration pension contributions, benefits by acknowledging Sir John Buchanan, our esteemed colleague, and short-term and long-term incentive targets are also unchanged the former Chairman of the Committee and Senior Independent since 2013.
Mr Mackenzie is the only Executive Director.
Director of BHP Billiton Plc who passed away on 13 July 2015.
Mr Mackenzies annual STI is at risk, with a target outcome of Sir Johns many years of experience and perspective underpinned 160 per cent of base salary, a maximum outcome of 240 per cent the Committees ability to navigate the complexities of executive of base salary, and a minimum outcome of zero.
remuneration, and his intellectual rigour, fairness and judgement As in past years, the scorecard against which his short-term served both shareholders and executives well during his performance is assessed comprises performance measures decade-long tenure as Committee Chairman.
He leaves a very including HSEC, financial, capital project management and strong foundation for BHP Billiton with respect to remuneration personal elements.
For FY2015, the Remuneration Committee matters and my fellow Committee members and I hold Sir John, has assessed the performance of Mr Mackenzie and concluded and his contribution, in the highest regard.
We will endeavour it was below target with a STI outcome of 85 per cent of target to build on his legacy in the years ahead.
or 136 per cent of base salary.
This outcome was primarily due Link to strategy to the CEOs overarching accountability for the five fatalities that Our Charter sets out our values, placing health and safety first, occurred during FY2015.
The Committee takes the Groups safety upon which the Remuneration Committee places great weight record very seriously and concluded, after taking advice from the in the determination of performance-based remuneration Sustainability Committee, that a zero outcome was appropriate outcomes for BHP Billitons executives.
Our Charter also sets for the CEOs FY2015 STI HSEC component, with the decision out our purpose, our strategy and how we measure success.
While attributable profit fell from The Committee is guided by those measures in supporting our US$13.8 billion in FY2014 to US$1.9 billion in FY2015, controllable executives in taking a long-term approach to decision-making financial performance was largely in line with targets.
The Committee in order to build a sustainable and value-adding business.
made a discretionary downwards adjustment to the formulaic Our remuneration policy and strategy is focused on long-term financial outcomes in light of the impairment of Onshore US success and minimising short-term behaviours or results that Assets.
Capital project management outcomes were largely would jeopardise longer-term outcomes.
The Committee also considered the CEOs strong performance against personal objectives, including We want executive remuneration to reflect the Groups performance significant productivity and capital expenditure improvements, and share price over an extended period and this is primarily together with the successful demerger of South32.
achieved with the equity component of the STI award being deferred for a two-year period, and with TSR under the LTIP being Given the importance the Committee places on safety, the measured over a five-year performance period.
scorecard weighting attached to HSEC has been increased for FY2016 to 25 per cent from 20 per cent in FY2015.
The capital Our approach project management weighting has been reduced to 10 per cent We have made no changes to the underlying approach to from 20 per cent reflecting a lower number and value of major remuneration in the last year.
It is an approach that BHP Billiton capital projects in execution, and the personal component has practised for over 10 years and we believe it continues to serve weighting has been increased to 25 per cent from 20 per cent.
our executives and shareholders well.
The remuneration outcomes The financial weighting is unchanged at 40 per cent.
continue to appropriately reflect the performance of the Group, of the Businesses and of individuals.
Mr Mackenzies LTI is also at risk, and forms an important part of recognising long-term performance.
While our approach has been given strong support by shareholders, with a vote for the Remuneration Report in excess of 97 per cent In relation to the LTI awards granted in 2010, BHP Billitons five-year at last years AGMs, and indeed over 96 per cent in each of the TSR performance was negative 15.2 per cent over the five-year prior five years, the Remuneration Committee and the Board will period from 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2015.
This is below the weighted continue to listen and give attention to feedback and views from median TSR of peer companies of negative 4.5 per cent and below shareholders on the Groups approach to pay.
the TSR of the MSCI World index of positive 78.6 per cent.
This level of performance results in zero vesting for the 2010 LTIP awards, Remuneration outcomes for the CEO and accordingly the awards have lapsed.
Mr Mackenzie, on his appointment as CEO in 2013, supported the view of the Board and Committee that his remuneration package In line with the approach for Mr Mackenzie, the base salaries and should be rebased downwards relative to that of the former CEO.
total target remuneration packages will also be held constant in Mr Mackenzies base salary has not been increased since then, FY2016 for all other GMC members.
