6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 9.9 American Depositary Receipts fees 9.10 Taxation and charges The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian, UK and US federal income tax consequences to a US holder of We have American Depositary Receipts ADR programs owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
The discussion below also outlines the Depositary fees potential South African tax issues for US holders of BHP Billiton Plc Citibank serves as the depositary bank for both of our ADR shares that are listed on the JSE.
ADR holders agree to the terms in the deposit agreement The following discussion is not relevant to non-US holders of filed with the SEC for depositing ADSs or surrendering the ADSs BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc for cancellation and for certain services as provided by Citibank.
By its nature, the commentary below Holders are required to pay all fees for general depositary services is of a general nature and we recommend that holders of ordinary provided by Citibank in each of our ADR programs, as set forth shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the in the tables below.
Australian, UK, South African and US federal, state and local tax Standard depositary fees: and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders For purposes of this commentary, a US holder is a beneficial Issuance of ADSs upon Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs owner of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for US federal income deposit of shares or fraction thereof issued tax purposes: Delivery of Deposited Securities Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs a citizen or resident alien of the US: against surrender of ADSs or fraction thereof surrendered a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation for Distribution of Cash Distributions No fee US federal income tax purposes that is created or organised under the laws of the US or any political subdivision thereof: Corporate actions depositary fees: an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source: or Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders a trust: Cash Distributions i. e. sale of rights, Up to US$2.00 per 100 ADSs other entitlements, return of capital or fraction thereof held a if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and one or more US persons have the Distribution of ADSs pursuant Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs authority to control all of its substantial decisions: or to exercise of rights to purchase or fraction thereof held additional ADSs.
Excludes stock b that has made a valid election to be treated as a US person dividends and stock splits for tax purposes.
Distribution of securities other than Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs This discussion of material tax consequences for US holders is based ADSs or rights to purchase additional or fraction thereof held on the Australian, UK, US and South African laws currently in effect, ADSs i. e. spin-off shares the published practice of tax authorities in those jurisdictions and Distribution of ADSs pursuant to an No fee the double taxation treaties and conventions currently in existence.
ADR ratio change in which shares are not distributed These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
US holders in BHP Billiton Limited Fees payable by the Depositary to the Issuer a Australian taxation Citibank has provided BHP Billiton net reimbursement of Dividends US$1.7 million in FY2015 for ADR program-related expenses Dividends including other distributions treated as dividends for for both of BHP Billitons ADR programs FY2014 US$1.4 million.
Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a US holder ADR program-related expenses include legal and accounting that is not an Australian resident for Australian tax purposes will fees, listing fees, expenses related to investor relations in the generally not be subject to Australian withholding tax if they are United States, fees payable to service providers for the distribution fully franked broadly, where a dividend is franked, tax paid by of material to ADR holders, expenses of Citibank as administrator BHP Billiton Limited is imputed to the shareholders.
of the ADS Direct Plan and expenses to remain in compliance Dividends paid to such US holders, which are not fully franked, with applicable laws.
will generally be subject to 15 per cent Australian withholding Citibank has further agreed to waive other ADR program-related tax only to the extent if any that the dividend is neither: expenses for FY2015, amounting to less than US$0.03 million, franked: nor which are associated with the administration of the ADR programs declared by BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income.
Broadly, this means that the relevant part of the dividend Our ADR programs trade on the NYSE under the stock tickers is declared to have been paid out of foreign source amounts BHP and BBL for the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc received by BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to programs, respectively.
As of 21 August 2015, there were 86,600,415 tax in Australia, such as dividends remitted to Australia ADRs on issue and outstanding in the BHP Billiton Limited ADR by foreign subsidiaries.
program and 41,106,341 ADRs on issue and outstanding in the The Australian withholding tax outcome described above BHP Billiton Plc ADR program.
Both of the ADR programs have applies to US holders who are eligible for benefits under the Tax a 2:1 ordinary shares to ADR ratio.
Convention between Australia and the US as to the Avoidance of Double Taxation the Australian Tax Treaty.
Otherwise, the rate of Australian withholding tax may be 30 per cent.
