6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 43 Significant accounting policies continued Joint ventures Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the parties with analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of may require complex and difficult geological judgements to the arrangement.
A separate vehicle, not the parties, will have the interpret the data.
rights to the assets and obligations to the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
More than an insignificant share of output from a joint The Group determines and reports ore reserves in Australia and the venture is sold to third parties which indicates that the joint venture United Kingdom under the principles incorporated in the Australasian is not dependent on the parties to the arrangement for funding Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and and that the parties to the arrangement have no obligation for the Ore Reserves December 2012 known as the JORC Code, and the liabilities of the arrangement.
Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules 2014 for minerals.
The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the assumptions when reporting reserves.
As a result, management will equity method the joint venture is recorded initially at cost to the Group, form a view of forecast sales prices, based on current and long-term including the value of any goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent historical average price trends.
For example, if current prices remain periods, the carrying amount of the joint venture is adjusted to above long-term historical averages for an extended period of time, reflect the Groups share of its post-acquisition profit or loss and management may assume that lower prices will prevail in the future other comprehensive income.
After application of the equity method, and as a result, those lower prices are used to estimate reserves including recognising the Groups share of the joint ventures results, under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result the value of the investment will be assessed for impairment if there in lower estimates of reserves.
is objective evidence that an impairment of the investment may have occurred.
Where the Groups investment in a joint venture is nil after Reserve reporting requirements for SEC United States of America having applied equity accounting principles and the Group has no filings are specified in Industry Guide 7, which requires economic legal or constructive obligation to make further payments, nor has assumptions to be based on current economic conditions which made payments on behalf of the joint venture, dividends received may differ from assumptions based on reasonable investment from the joint venture will be recognised in the Groups result as assumptions.
Accordingly, for SEC filings, we test our reserve a Share of operating profit of equity accounted investments.
estimates derived under JORC against assumed current economic conditions.
Current economic conditions are based on the y Associates three-year average of historical contract and market prices for Associates are entities in which the Group holds significant influence.
commodities such as iron ore and coal, and the three-year average Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and of historical market prices for commodities that are traded on operating policy decisions of an entity but is not control or joint the London Metal Exchange, such as copper and nickel.
If the Group holds 20 per cent or more of the voting power we only report a different reserve in the United States of America if, of an entity, it is presumed that the Group has significant influence, based on the United States SEC pricing assumptions test, the reserve unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
will be lower than that reported under JORC in Australia and the Significant influence can also arise when the Group has less than United Kingdom.
20 per cent of voting power but it can be demonstrated that the Group has the power to participate in the financial and operating Oil and gas reserves reported in Australia, the United Kingdom, policy decisions of the associate.
and the United States of America for SEC filing purposes, are based on the average of prices prevailing on the first day of each month for Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method the past 12 months as required under the SEC Rules Modernisation as described above.
The Group uses the term equity accounted of Oil & Gas Reporting.
investments to refer to associates and joint ventures collectively.
Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period, and because additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of 44 Application of accounting estimates, reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported assumptions and judgements reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial Application of critical accounting policies and estimates position in a number of ways, including the following: The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires Asset recoverable amounts may be affected due to changes management to make judgements and estimates and form in estimated future cash flows.
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, contingent Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in the income liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the financial statements.
statement may change where such charges are determined On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its judgements and on the units of production basis, or where the useful economic estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, lives of assets change.
Management bases its judgements and Overburden removal costs recorded on the balance sheet or estimates on historical experience and on other factors it believes charged to the income statement may change due to changes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which in stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
form the basis of the reported amounts that are not readily apparent Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates may change where changes in estimated reserves affect under different assumptions and conditions.
expectations about the timing or cost of these activities.
The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies The carrying amount of deferred tax assets may change due under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
are made and where actual results may differ from these estimates Exploration and evaluation expenditure under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable may be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of Reserve estimates reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
whether an economically viable extraction operation can be In order to estimate reserves, estimates are required about for established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including new information becomes available.
If, after having capitalised the quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, expenditure under the policy, a judgement is made that recovery production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount will commodity prices and exchange rates.
be written off to the income statement.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 273 7 Financial Statementscontinued 44 Application of accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements continued Development expenditure Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets recoverable amount Development activities commence after project sanctioning by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, each asset or by management in determining when a project is economically cash-generating unit is evaluated every reporting period to determine viable.
In exercising this judgement, management is required to whether there are any indications of impairment or reversal of make certain estimates and assumptions similar to those described previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication above for capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount is performed.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information Where carrying amount exceeds recoverable amount an impairment becomes available.
If, after having commenced the development loss is recognised.
A reversal of previously recognised impairment activity, a judgement is made that a development asset is impaired, loss is limited to the lesser of the amount that would not cause the the appropriate amount will be written off to the income statement.
increased carrying amount to exceed a its recoverable amount: or b the carrying amount that would have been determined net Taxation of depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the The Groups accounting policy for taxation, including royalty-related asset or cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount of an asset taxation, requires managements judgement as to the types of or cash-generating group of assets is measured at the higher of arrangements considered to be a tax on income in contrast to an fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
Judgement is also required in assessing whether The determination of fair value and value in use requires management deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses, foreign tax credits and prices, price trends and related factors, reserves see Reserve temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered estimates above, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
Deferred tax are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that liabilities arising from temporary differences in investments, caused changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may principally by retained earnings held in foreign tax jurisdictions, are impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, recognised unless repatriation of retained earnings can be controlled some or all of the carrying amount of the assets may be further and are not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
impaired or the impairment charge reduced with the impact Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and recorded in the income statement.
repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates Provision for closure and rehabilitation of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of closure and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, and rehabilitation provisions requires significant estimates and closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and assumptions such as: requirements of the relevant legal and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination: required about the application of income tax legislation and its and the timing, extent and costs of required closure and rehabilitation interaction with income tax accounting principles.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there differing from the amounts currently provided.
is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed tax liabilities recognised on the balance sheet and the amount and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites are In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying amount of recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the closure and recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, rehabilitation asset and provision.
For closed sites, changes to resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
