6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 35 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities at balance date, not otherwise provided for in the financial statements, are categorised as arising from: 2015 2014 US$M US$M Associates and joint ventures a Tax and other matters 1,313 1,662 Total associates and joint ventures 1,313 1,662 Subsidiaries and joint operations b Bank guarantees 3 23 a Tax and other matters 1,947 1,691 Total subsidiaries and joint operations 1,950 1,714 Total contingent liabilities 3,263 3,376 a Tax and other matters include actual or potential litigation and tax-related amounts, predominantly relating to a number of actions against the Group, none of which are individually significant and where the liability is not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in these financial statements.
Additionally, there are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the Group, the outcome of which cannot be foreseen at present, and for which no amounts have been included in the table above.
b The Group has entered into various counter-indemnities of bank and performance guarantees related to its own future performance in the normal course of business.
The Separation Deed between BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited South32 deals with certain commercial, transitional and legal issues arising from the separation of South32 from the Group.
A key part of the Separation Deed is the agreement between the parties in relation to the Demerger Principle.
The fundamental underlying principle of the demerger is that: i South32 has the entire economic benefit, commercial risk and liabilities of the South32 Businesses and former South32 Businesses as if South32 and not the Group had owned those Businesses at all times: and ii the Group has the entire economic benefit, commercial risk and liabilities of the BHP Billiton Businesses including the entire risk in former BHP Billiton Businesses, as if the Group and not South32 had owned those Businesses at all times.
To give effect to the principle, subject to certain exceptions, BHP Billiton Limited indemnifies South32 against all claims and liabilities relating to the BHP Billiton Businesses and former BHP Billiton Businesses and South32 indemnifies the Group against all claims and liabilities relating to the South32 Businesses and former South32 Businesses.
The Separation Deed also contains specific indemnities with respect to certain matters.
No amounts have been claimed or provided for as at 30 June 2015 pursuant to the Separation Deed.
In May 2015, the Group announced the resolution of the previously disclosed investigation by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC into potential breaches of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
The US Department of Justice has also completed its investigation into BHP Billiton without taking any action.
The investigations related primarily to previously terminated minerals exploration and development efforts, as well as hospitality provided by BHP Billiton at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.
The US investigations have now been concluded on all matters.
The matter was resolved with the SEC pursuant to an administrative order, which imposed a US$25 million civil penalty.
The SEC order made no findings of corrupt intent or bribery by BHP Billiton.
As previously disclosed, an investigation by the Australian Federal Police AFP is ongoing and the Group continues to cooperate.
In light of the continuing nature of the AFP investigation, it is not appropriate at this stage for BHP Billiton to predict outcomes.
36 Subsequent events Other than the matters outlined elsewhere in this report, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the financial year that have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in subsequent accounting periods.
