2 Business overview continued A contract for the supply of natural gas to the Kelar power plant has 2.1.
2 Copper Business been secured with Gas Natural Fenosa.
First deliveries are scheduled Our Copper Business, headquartered in Santiago, Chile, is one to commence in CY2016, which will tie-in with the commissioning of the worlds leading producers of copper concentrate and and commercial operation of the Kelar plant.
cathode, uranium oxide, and a producer of zinc concentrate.
Our portfolio of mining operations includes the Escondida mine To address limitations on the availability of water, we desalinate sea water and carefully manage our use and reuse of available in Chile, a leading producer of copper, and Olympic Dam in South Australia, a major producer of copper and uranium oxide.
The EWS project, which involves the construction of a second desalination plant, will reduce our reliance on the Our total copper production in FY2015 was 1.7 million tonnes Mt.
Our concentrate production, which represents 60 per cent of total regions aquifers and help meet our environmental commitments.
The EWS project is expected to be commissioned in CY2017.
production, results from flotation of sulphide ores mined at our Escondida and Antamina mines.
Oxide ores and sulphide ores Pampa Norte amenable to leaching are mined and processed into copper Pampa Norte consists of two operations Spence and Cerro cathode, using conventional heap leaching, followed by solvent Colorado.
Copper cathode is produced at both operations following extraction and electrowinning processes at Escondida, Cerro a leaching, solvent extraction and electrowinning process.
Copper cathode is also produced at Olympic Dam, where sulphide ores are processed through conventional Our wholly owned Spence copper mine is located in the Atacama flotation and the resulting concentrate is further transformed Desert, 162 kilometres northeast of Antofagasta in Chile.
During into cathodes through a smelting and refining process.
FY2015, Spence produced 171.4 kt of high-quality copper cathode, using oxide and sulphide ore treatment through leaching, solvent We market four primary products: copper cathodes, copper extraction and electrowinning processes.
The reserve life is concentrates, zinc concentrates and uranium oxide.
We sell discussed in section 2.3.
2. our copper cathode production to wire rod mills, brass mills and casting plants around the world under contracts with prices Our wholly owned Cerro Colorado mine, located in the Atacama at premiums to the London Metal Exchange LME or the Commodity Desert, 120 kilometres east of Iquique in Chile, remains a significant Exchange Inc COMEX prices.
We sell the majority of our uranium producer of copper cathode, although production levels have oxide to electricity generating utilities, principally in Western fallen in recent years as grades have declined.
Despite this, Europe, North America and East Asia.
Uranium is typically sold production in FY2015 reached 78.2 kt of copper cathode.
under a mix of long-term and short-term contracts.
We sell most The reserve life is discussed in section 2.3.
The extension of our copper and zinc concentrates to smelters located in of the existing environmental and mining licences to continue diversified geographic markets such as China, South America, to enable Cerro Colorado to operate beyond December 2016 Japan, India and South Korea.
Treatment charges and refining is currently pending approval.
charges collectively referred to as TCRCs are negotiated with Antamina counterparties on a variety of tenors, trending towards shorter-term, We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost copper more market-based pricing periods less than one year.
Some and zinc mine in north central Peru.
Antaminas total production of the ores we mine contain quantities of silver and gold, which for FY2015 was 107.7 kt of copper in concentrate and 66.4 kt of zinc remain in the base metal concentrates we sell, and are typically in concentrate.
Antamina also produces molybdenum and lead subject to payment credits.
We sell refined silver and gold from bismuth concentrate, as well as small amounts of silver in the Olympic Dam.
Our five operating assets, which are located form of by-products.
The reserve life is discussed in section 2.3.
2. in South America and Australia, consist of the following: In FY2015, following the identification of a number of Americas debottlenecking opportunities, Antamina successfully increased Escondida nominal milling capacity to 53 million tonnes per annum Mtpa.
Our 57.5 per cent owned and operated Escondida mine is a leading Australia producer of copper.
Located in the Atacama Desert in northern Chile, Escondida employs approximately 12,000 operational Olympic Dam employees and contractors and has the capacity to move in excess Our wholly owned Olympic Dam mine is a producer of copper of 1.3 Mt of material per day.
Its two open-cut pits currently cathode and uranium oxide and a refiner of gold and silver bullion.
feed three concentrator plants, Laguna Seca, Los Colorados and The site includes an underground mine, where the primary method the recently commissioned Organic Growth Project 1 OGP1, as well of ore extraction is long-hole open stoping with cemented aggregate as two leaching operations oxide and sulphide.
The Los Colorados fill, and an integrated metallurgical processing plant.
concentrator plant will be placed into care and maintenance The underground mine extracts copper uranium ore and hauls once OGP1 ramp-up has been completed as current water source the ore by an automated train and trucking network feeding volumes cannot sustain the operation of three concentrators at underground crushing, storage and ore hoisting facilities.
Escondida is assessing extending the life of The processing plant consists of two grinding circuits in which the Los Colorados concentrator plant on the completion of the high-quality copper concentrate is extracted from sulphide ore Escondida Water Supply EWS project based on the availability through a flotation extraction process.
The operation includes of water and mine stability.
All three concentrator plants use a fully integrated metallurgical complex with a grinding and grinding and flotation technologies to produce copper concentrate.
concentrating circuit, a hydrometallurgical plant incorporating In FY2015, our share of Escondida production was 526.7 kilotonnes solvent extraction circuits for copper and uranium, a copper smelter, kt of payable copper in concentrate and 178.4 kt of copper a copper refinery and a recovery circuit for precious metals.
Escondida production for FY2016 will be impacted by an anticipated 27 per cent decline in ore grades.
This will be partly The Svedala mill, which accounts for approximately 60 per cent offset by increased throughput, enabled by the completion of the of Olympic Dams production, experienced an electrical failure OGP1 and operational improvements.
The reserve life is discussed in January 2015.
Repairs were completed by June 2015 and the in section 2.3.
2. mill is now operating at full capacity.
In FY2015, Olympic Dam produced 124.5 kt of copper cathode, 3.1 kt of uranium oxide, The availability of key inputs like power and water at competitive 104.8 kilo-ounces koz of refined gold and 724 koz of refined prices is an important focus for our Copper Business.
2013, we awarded a long-term energy agreement to a consortium Cannington consisting of Korea Southern Power Co. and Samsung Construction & Trading Corp. for the development, operation and maintenance In May 2015, our Cannington silver-lead zinc mine was included of a 517 megawatt MW combined-cycle gas-fired power plant in the demerger of South32.
Further information can be found Kelar power plant in the town of Mejillones, Chile.
7 and note 29 Discontinued which will be connected to the Northern Interconnected Grid operations to the Financial Statements.
SING, will supply the increasing demand for electricity at our operations.
Construction work is progressing as planned with 65.4 per cent completed as of 30 June 2015 and production is expected to begin in the October 2017 quarter.
80 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Information on Copper mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production refer to section 2.2.
2 and reserve tables refer to section 2.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Americas Copper Escondida Atacama Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining Original 2 open-cut pits: Escondida- 3 concentrator Desert, 57.5% of Minera concession construction Escondida and owned plants extract Copper 170km Escondida from Chilean completed Escondida Norte transmission copper concentrate cathode southeast of Limitada MEL Government in 1990 lines connect from sulphide transported Escondida and Antofagasta, valid indefinitely to Chiles ore by flotation by privately Rio Tinto Sulphide Escondida Norte Chile subject to northern extraction process owned rail 30% JECO leach copper mineral deposits payment of power grid to ports at Corporation production are adjacent but 2 solvent extraction annual fees Electricity Antofagasta consortium commenced distinct supergene plants produce purchased and Mejillones comprising in 2006 enriched porphyry copper cathode under Mitsubishi, copper deposits Copper Nominal capacity: contracts JX Nippon concentrate 153.7 Mtpa nominal expiring 2016 Mining and transported milling capacity and and 2029 Metals 10% by Escondida- 350 ktpa copper JECO2 Ltd 2.5% owned cathode nominal pipelines capacity of tank to its Coloso house port facilities Two 168 km concentrate pipelines 167 km water pipeline Port facilities at Coloso, Antofagasta Pampa Norte Spence Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining Development Open-cut SpenceProcessing and Desert, concession cost of owned crushing facilities, Copper Enriched and 162km from Chilean US$1.1 billion transmission separate dynamic cathode oxidised porphyry northeast of Government approved lines connect on-off leach transported copper deposit Antofagasta, valid indefinitely in 2004 to Chiles pads, solvent by rail to that presents Chile subject to northern extraction plant, ports at First copper dominantly in situ payment of power grid electrowinning plant Mejillones and produced copper oxide annual fees Antofagasta in 2006 mineralisation Electricity Nominal capacity of that overlies purchased tank house: 179 ktpa a near-horizontal under copper cathode sequence of contract supergene sulphide, transitional sulphide, and lower-most primary hypogene sulphide mineralisation Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining Commercial Open-cut Long-term 2 primary, secondary Desert, concession production contracts with and tertiary Copper Enriched and 120km east from Chilean commenced northern Chile crushers, leaching cathode oxidised porphyry of Iquique, Government in 1994 power grid pads, solvent trucked to copper deposit Chile valid indefinitely extraction plant, port at Iquique Expansions in that presents subject to electrowinning plant 1996 and 1998 dominantly in situ payment of copper oxide Nominal capacity of annual fees mineralisation tank house: 102ktpa that overlies copper cathode a near-horizontal sequence of supergene sulphide, transitional sulphide, and lower-most primary hypogene sulphide mineralisation Copper and zinc Antamina Andes Public road BHP Billiton Compaa Mining rights Commercial Open-cut Long-term Primary crusher, mountain 33.75% of Minera from Peruvian production contracts with concentrator, copper Copper Zoned porphyry range, Compaa Antamina SA Government commenced individual and zinc flotation and zinc and skarn deposit 270 km Minera held indefinitely, in 2001 power circuits, bismuth concentrates with central north of Antamina SA subject to producers moly cleaning circuit transported Capital cost copper-only ores Lima, north payment of by pipeline Glencore 33.75% US$2.3 billion and an outer band Nominal milling central Peru annual fees to port of Teck 22.5% 100% of copper-zinc capacity 53 Mtpa and supply Huarmey Mitsubishi 10% ore zone 300 km concentrate of information Molybdenum pipeline on investment and lead Port facilities and production bismuth at Huarmey concentrates transported by truck BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 81 2 Business overview continued Information on Copper mining operations continued Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Australia Copper and uranium Olympic Dam 560 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining lease Acquired in Underground Supplied via Underground northwest granted by 2005 as part 275 kV power automated train and Copper Large poly-metallic of Adelaide, South Australian of WMC line from trucking network cathode deposit of iron South Government acquisition Port Augusta, feeding crushing, trucked  expires in 2036 transmitted storage and ore to ports Copper uranium-gold by ElectraNet hoisting facilities Right of production mineralisation Uranium oxide extension for began in 1988 2 grinding circuits transported by 50 years Nominal milling Nominal milling road to ports subject to capacity raised capacity: 10.3 Mtpa remaining to 9Mtpa Flash furnace mine life in 1999 produces copper Optimisation anodes, then refined project to produce copper completed cathodes in 2002 Electrowon copper New copper cathode and uranium solvent oxide concentrate extraction produced by plant leaching and solvent commissioned extracting flotation in 2004 tailings enable Spence to achieve a total copper production of approximately Development projects 260 kt on average during the first 10 years of operation.
Americas Olympic Dam Escondida The focus at Olympic Dam is to transform the existing operation The Organic Growth Project 1 OGP1 is a new concentrator to materially lower the cost of production safely and sustainably.
with a 152 kilotonnes per day ktpd plant.
We expect this project We are progressing a pre-feasibility study to examine potential to provide additional processing capacity and allow access future optimisation and expansion opportunities.
to high-grade ore. OGP1 was approved in February 2012 with budgeted expenditure of US$3.8 billion US$2.2 billion BHP Billiton During FY2015, we received approval from the Australian and South share.
A US$361 million increase in the budget of OGP1 to Australian Governments to construct a site-based heap leaching US$4.2 billion US$ 2.4 billion BHP Billiton share was approved demonstration plant, as part of our efforts to identify an alternative, in October 2014 following challenges associated with contractors less capital-intensive process for extracting metals from ore mined progress.
The Project was completed in May 2015 and is currently underground.
Construction of the demonstration plant is subject in the commissioning and ramp-up phase.
to ongoing, off-site demonstration and test work outcomes and Board approvals.
The Escondida Water Supply EWS project was approved in July 2013 and consists of a new 2,500 litres per second sea water Resolution Copper desalination facility.
This project will provide an alternative water We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project supply to Escondida, as water usage increases upon completion in the US state of Arizona, a project which is operated by Rio Tinto of the 152 ktpd OGP1 copper concentrator.
Construction of the 55 per cent interest.
Resolution Copper is among the top 10 new desalination facility commenced in July2013 and includes largest undeveloped copper projects in the world and could the development of two pipelines, four high-pressure pump eventually become the largest copper producer in North America.
stations, a reservoir at the mine site and high-voltage infrastructure to support the system.
The new facility is expected to In FY2014, Resolution Copper completed a pre-feasibility study into a 120 ktpd underground panel cave operation and processing be commissioned in CY2017 at a cost of US$3.4 billion US$2.0 billion BHP Billiton share.
Further opportunities to economically optimise the project and minimise any technical risks have been identified, and the The Oxide Leach Area Project OLAP was completed in November project plans to continue to study these opportunities.
Additionally, 2014 and now in production.
The Project involved the creation a General Mine Plan of Operations was submitted to the US Forest of a new dynamic leaching pad and mineral handling system that Service in November 2013.
In December 2014, President Obama included several overland conveyors.
The new pad is expected signed legislation that will allow the US Federal Government to maintain oxide leaching capacity at current levels.
OLAP was to exchange 2,400 acres of federally owned land immediately approved in February 2012 with budgeted expenditure of US$721 adjacent to Resolutions operational site, for 5,300 acres of million US$414 million BHP Billiton share and a US$212 million important wildlife habitat, conservation and recreational land increase in the budget of OLAP to US$933 million US$536 million owned by Resolution.
Both the land exchange and proposed BHP Billiton share was approved in March 2014.
Expected final cost mine plan will now undergo a comprehensive environmental is US$899 million US$517 million BHP Billiton share.
and regulatory review that includes an assessment under the Pampa Norte US National Environmental Policy Act.
This process will include public input,  consultation with Arizona The Spence Growth Option SGO project, currently at prefeasibility phase, endeavours to maximise Spences value by exploiting Native American tribes, and a US Federal Government appraisal of the exchange lands.
the large and expandable hypogene resource with associated molybdenum sulphide by building a 95 ktpd concentrator.
In November 2014, Resolution Copper completed construction This would increase the mine life by approximately 50 years of the No #10 Shaft to a final depth of 2,116 metres.
Our share beyond the current FY2025 closure date.
The proposed investment of project expenditure for FY2015 was US$55 million.
is approximately US$3.2 billion and the project is scheduled to commence at the end of the November 2019 quarter.
The hypogene Exploration activities ore underlies the supergene reserves currently being exploited Our greenfield copper exploration activities during FY2015 and therefore eliminates the need for pre-stripping and additional were focused on advancing targets within Chile, Peru and mine maintenance infrastructure.
The option to maximise the southwestern United States.
Greenfield activities include use of existing heap leach infrastructure, to recover copper opportunity identification, application for and acquisition from the lower-grade chalcopyrite ores, is being developed as of mineral title, early reconnaissance operations and a complementary process to the concentrator CPY leach project.
The implementation of both the SGO and CPY leach projects will 82 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
