3 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 3.18 Market disclosure of the UK Financial Conduct Authority require companies listed We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure, in the UK to report on the extent to which they comply with the ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same Main Principles and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance access to high-quality, relevant information in an accessible Code UK Code, and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council FRC issued The Disclosure Committee manages our compliance with market the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 2014 Code.
The FRC disclosure obligations and is responsible for implementing has also published guidance for Boards on risk management reporting processes and controls and setting guidelines for the and internal control and related financial and business reporting.
As part of our commitment to continuous As the 2014 Code and the guidance apply to financial years improvement, we continue to ensure alignment with best practice beginning on or after 1 October 2014, BHP Billiton has considered as it develops in the jurisdictions in which BHP Billiton is listed.
the impact of the changes, will comply with the 2014 Code and guidance from 1 July 2015 and will report on compliance Disclosure officers have been appointed in the Groups Businesses, in the Annual Report for FY2016.
The UK Code is available online Group Functions and Marketing.
These officers are responsible at w ww.
for identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with referral information about the activities of the Business or functional The Listing Rules of the ASX require ASX-listed companies to areas using disclosure guidelines developed by the Committee.
report on the extent to which they meet the Corporate Governance The Committee then makes the decision whether a particular Principles and Recommendations published by the ASX Corporate piece of information is material and therefore needs to be disclosed Governance Council ASX Principles and Recommendations and to the market.
explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
The ASX Principles and Recommendations are available online at w w w. a sx gr oup.
a u To safeguard the effective dissemination of information, we have corporate - go vernance - council.
developed a market disclosure and communications document, which outlines how we identify and distribute information to Both the UK Code and the ASX Principles and Recommendations shareholders and market participants.
require the Board to consider the application of the relevant corporate governance principles, while recognising that departures A copy of the market disclosure and communications from those principles are appropriate in some circumstances.
document is available online at w w w. bhpbillit on.
com aboutus We complied with the provisions set out in the UK Code and with the ourcompany go vernance.
ASX Principles and Recommendations during the financial period.
Copies of announcements to the stock exchanges on which we are listed, investor briefings, Financial Statements, the Appendix 4G, summarising our compliance with the ASX Principles and Recommendations is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com Annual Report and other relevant information can be found aboutus our compan y go vernance.
Any person wishing to receive advice by email of news releases can subscribe BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are registrants with the at w ww.
Both companies are classified as foreign private issuers and both have American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE.
3.19 Remuneration We have reviewed the governance requirements currently Details of our remuneration policies and practices, and the applicable to foreign private issuers under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act remuneration paid to the Directors Executive and Non-executive US, including the rules promulgated by the SEC and the rules of and members of the GMC, are set out in the Remuneration Report the NYSE and are satisfied that we comply with those requirements.
in section 4 of this Annual Report.
Section 303A of the NYSE-Listed Company Manual contains a broad regime of corporate governance requirements for 3.20 Directors share ownership NYSE-listed companies.
Under the NYSE rules, foreign private issuers, such as ourselves, are permitted to follow home country Non-executive Directors have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent practice in lieu of the requirements of Section 303A, except for of their remuneration to the purchase of BHP Billiton shares until the rule relating to compliance with Rule 10A-3 of the 1934 Securities they achieve a shareholding equivalent in value to one years Exchange Act audit committee independence and certain remuneration.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level notification provisions contained in Section 303A of the Listed of shareholding throughout their tenure.
All dealings by Directors Company Manual.
11 of the Listed Company Manual, are subject to the Groups Securities Dealing Group Level Document however, requires us to disclose any significant ways in which and are reported to the Board and to the stock exchanges.
our corporate governance practices differ from those followed Information on our policy governing the use of hedge arrangements by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance standards.
over shares in BHP Billiton by both Directors and members of the After a comparison of our corporate governance practices with GMC is set out in section 4.4.
2. the requirements of Section 303A of the Listed Company Manual followed by US companies, the following significant difference Details of the shares held by Directors are set out in section 4.2.
27. was identified: Rule 10A-3 of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act requires 3.21 Conformance with corporate NYSE-listed companies to ensure that their audit committees are directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, governance standards retention and oversight of the work of the external auditor Our compliance with the governance standards in our home unless the companys governing law or documents or other jurisdictions of Australia and the United Kingdom, and with home country legal requirements require or permit shareholders the governance requirements that apply to us as a result of to ultimately vote on or approve these matters.
While the RAC our New York Stock Exchange NYSE listing and our registration is directly responsible for remuneration and oversight of the with the SEC in the United States, is summarised in this Corporate External Auditor, the ultimate responsibility for appointment Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report, the Directors and retention of the External Auditor rests with our shareholders, Report and the Financial Statements.
in accordance with UK law and our constitutional documents.
The RAC does, however, make recommendations to the Board on these matters, which are in turn reported to shareholders.
