1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report STI and LTI are the two components of remuneration that are 4.3.
6 Consideration of shareholder views measured on business performance, with the outcome assessed Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance against pre-determined performance conditions.
is expressed through the approach we take to engaging and communicating with shareholders.
We encourage shareholders The minimum amount the CEO could earn in respect of FY2016 to make their views known to us.
is US$2.270 million, which is fixed remuneration, and made up of his base salary of US$1.700 million, pension contributions Our shareholders are based across the globe.
Regular proactive of US$0.425 million and benefits of US$0.145 million.
engagement on remuneration and governance matters takes place with institutional shareholders and investor representative The maximum is US$13.150 million.
This assumes he earns the maximum under the STI of US$4.080 million and the normal organisations.
This is overseen by the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
maximum under the LTI of US$6.800 million.
All of these components are shown in the table below at the minimum, target In addition, shareholders can contact us at any time through and maximum levels.
The normal maximum amount of the LTI our Investor Relations team, with contact details available has been calculated on the basis of full vesting at the share price on our website: w w w. bhpbilliton.
The normal maximum LTI is 400 per cent Feedback from shareholders and investors is shared with the of base salary.
Board and Remuneration Committee through the Chairman Before deciding on the final outcome for the CEO and for other and the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is used as input members of the GMC, the Committee first considers the outcome to decision-making by the Board and the Committee, in respect against the pre-determined performance conditions.
It then applies of executive remuneration policy and application.
In particular, its overarching discretion.
It can exercise discretion downwards this feedback has had a direct bearing on the Committees only i. e. to reduce remuneration.
decisions in formulating this remuneration policy report content.
When the CEO was appointed in May 2013, the Board advised The Committee considers that this approach provides a robust him that the Committee would exercise its discretion on the basis mechanism to ensure Directors are aware of matters raised, have of what it considered to be a fair and commensurate remuneration a good understanding of current shareholder views, and formulate level to decide if the outcome should be reduced.
policy and make decisions as appropriate.
To be fair to the individual, remuneration levels need to accurately 4.3.
7 Potential remuneration outcomes for the CEO reflect the CEOs responsibilities and contributions.
To be commensurate with the expectations of shareholders, remuneration While the Remuneration Committee recognises that market forces levels need to reflect the expectations of our shareholders that necessarily influence remuneration practices, it strongly believes their Companys funds would be used to remunerate our employees that the fundamental driver of remuneration outcomes should be in a way that is proportionate to both performance and overall value.
It also believes that overall remuneration should be both fair to the individual and commensurate with the In this way, the Committee believes it can set a remuneration expectations of our shareholders.
level for the CEO that is sufficient to incentivise him and that is also fair to him and commensurate with shareholder expectations Accordingly, while target total remuneration is structured to attract and prevailing market conditions.
These same considerations led and retain a high calibre CEO, the amount of remuneration actually the Committee to set the incoming CEOs remuneration when received each year depends on: he was appointed in 2013 at a lower level than the previous level the achievement of superior business and individual for this role.
performance: The diagram below shows the relative proportion of each generating sustained shareholder value from relative outperformance: remuneration component for the CEO if the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance were achieved.
the view of the Committee as to what is fair to the individual and commensurate with shareholder expectations.
The amount included for other benefits is based on FY2015 actual figures for the CEO, excluding non-recurring items.
2 The STI target amount is based on target performance of 160 per cent of base salary.
The STI maximum amount is based on a maximum award of 240 per cent of base salary.
The impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of deferred STI awards is not included.
3 The LTI amount target and maximum is based on the CEOs normal maximum award equal to the face value of 400 per cent of base salary, which is lower than the maximum permissible award size under the plan rules.
The target value for the LTI award is based on the fair value of the award, which is 41 per cent of the face value, as this is the expected outcome on the balance of probabilities for the current plan design as calculated by the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee, Kepler Associates.
The minimum value for the LTI award is zero, and applies where the relative TSR of BHP Billiton is lower than the Peer Group and or Index TSR as applicable for each grant.
The impact of potential future share price movements up and down on the value of LTI awards is not included.
3 for more information on the components of remuneration for the CEO BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 171
