9 Shareholder information continued Demerger Implementation Deed 9.3.
2 DLC structure continued BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited entered Joint Electorate Actions into an Implementation Deed on 17 March 2015 to facilitate the Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited demerger of South32 Limited from the BHP Billiton Group.
Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have implemented special voting arrangements so that the shareholders The Implementation Deed sets out: of both companies vote together as a single decision-making body the conditions to the demerger: and on matters affecting the shareholders of each company in similar certain steps required to be taken by each of BHP Billiton Limited, ways such matters are referred to as Joint Electorate Actions.
BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited to implement the demerger.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Implementation of the demerger was completed on 25 May 2015 Limited share will effectively have the same voting rights as each and resulted in the formation of an independent listed company, BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint Electorate Actions.
South32 Limited, with a portfolio of assets producing alumina, A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc.
or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable In accordance with the Implementation Deed, the demerger listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited was effected through a distribution of South32 shares to eligible and also of BHP Billiton Plc.
Both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc by way shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special of an in-specie dividend by each of BHP Billiton Limited and Voting Share vote as a single class and, in the case of BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Plc.
Each eligible shareholder of BHP Billiton Limited Plc, the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the and BHP Billiton Plc received one South32 share for each share BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share vote as a single class.
in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable that Class Rights Actions it held as at the applicable record date for the demerger.
In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class 9.5 Constitution Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The effect of the of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, identical.
Where the term an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
BHP Billiton is used in this description of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can be read to mean either BHP Billiton These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
documents of the two companies, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement, the BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed and Provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles rights attaching to a specially created Special Voting Share issued of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can be amended only where such by each company and held in each case by a Special Voting amendment is approved by special resolution either: Company.
The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment legally and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or Cross guarantees otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions a Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and voting to the benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee rights in section 9.3.
and the BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts 9.5.
1 Directors were owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc The management and control of the business and affairs on a combined basis.
of BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which Restrictions on takeovers of one company only may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton, other than those The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc which are required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except in a general meeting.
with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one company without having made an equivalent offer to the 9.5.
2 Power to issue securities shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles breach of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, of Association, issue any shares or other securities including voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the redeemable shares with preferred, deferred or other special extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
rights, obligations or restrictions as and when the Board may determine and on any other terms the Board considers appropriate, provided that: 9.4 Material contracts any such issue does not affect any special rights conferred DLC agreements on the holders of any shares: On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited any such issue is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association: of a DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are as they were then known entered into the following agreements expressed at the date of issue.
designed to place the shareholders of both companies in a position where they effectively have an interest in a single group that combines the assets, and is subject to all the liabilities, of both companies: BHP Billiton DLC Structure Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which they operate are described in section 9.3 of this Annual Report.
