1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.2 Chief Executive Officers Report Local partnerships continue to be an integral part of our business.
In FY2015, we contributed US$225 million to programs that will have a positive impact on the quality of life for people in our host communities.
This year, we developed a new BHP Billiton Social Investment Framework to build a stronger linkage between our business and the communities that support and host us.
The framework has identified three areas of sustainable development that will form the basis of future investments: governance, environment, and human capability and social inclusion.
Climate change considerations remain central to planning and execution.
We are taking action to reduce emissions, build the resilience of our operations and supply chains, and work with others to support effective policy development.
We are exploring opportunities to invest in low-emission technologies such as carbon capture and storage and battery storage.
We are proud to have publicly committed our support for the recognition of Australias Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples in the nations constitution.
We have strong relationships BHP Billiton delivered a solid set of results in FY2015, based with Indigenous peoples in Australia and around the world.
on strong operating performance and improved productivity Our support for recognition in Australias foundation governance against a backdrop of a volatile global economy and lower document is consistent with the values underpinning the commodity prices.
relationships we seek to have with Indigenous Australians.
Our FY2015 safety performance was disappointing.
While we Last month marked the 130th anniversary of the establishment improved total recordable injury frequency performance by of the Broken Hill Proprietary Company.
The longevity of BHP Billiton two per cent to 4.1 injuries per million hours worked, five colleagues is a tribute to the enduring innovation, passion and commitment died at work.
It is with deep sadness that I extend my condolences that has supported our rise from a single operation on a remote to their families, friends and workmates.
Safety is unquestionably sheep station in western New South Wales, Australia to a Company my first priority, as it is for everyone at BHP Billiton.
I am working operating across the globe.
with all the leaders of BHP Billiton and we have implemented a Company-wide program of engagement to make our workplaces We will build upon this inheritance by making sure we continue safer than ever before.
to have the very best people working with the best assets in the best commodities.
We remain confident that focus on best-in-class In FY2015, the focus on best-in-class performance across our performance, unrivalled asset quality, diversification and investment operations delivered productivity gains of US$4.1 billion, two years in high-return projects, will create long-term value through the ahead of target.
Iron Ore and Metallurgical Coal achieved annual cycle and deliver superior returns to our shareholders.
production records, with increases of 14 per cent and 13 per cent respectively, Petroleum production increased by four per cent and In everything we do, we are motivated by the knowledge that the Copper production was flat following the unplanned mill outage at commodities we produce are central to global economic growth Olympic Dam.
This resulted in an overall Group production increase and development.
Every employee of BHP Billiton is proud of the of nine per cent on a copper equivalent basis.
role the Company plays in supporting the supply of the resources necessary to improve living standards and social progress.
Improved operational productivity has generated strong cash flow to fund the progressive dividend, maintain a solid A credit rating I would like to extend my sincere thanks to our suppliers, and allow us to continue to invest in growth.
Further operational customers, host communities and shareholders.
I would especially productivity will stretch the capacity of existing operations to safely like to thank the employees and contractors whose contributions increase volumes at very low cost, and increased capital productivity help BHP Billiton reach its potential, and whose commitment to will reduce the cost of investments.
In FY2015, we reduced capital step up and deliver their best makes me very proud to be part and exploration expenditure to US$11 billion and expect this to of this great Company.
decline to US$8.5 billion in FY2016.
We have unique, high-return growth opportunities within the portfolio, and our cash flows and disciplined capital management structure will allow us to progress these when the time is right.
In May 2015, we completed the demerger of South32 to create Andrew Mackenzie a more focused portfolio for BHP Billiton.
This simpler portfolio Chief Executive Officer of assets, with more similar characteristics, allows a sharper focus on the Businesses that generate the majority of our earnings, and increases the potential for further productivity gains and shareholder value.
Post-demerger, BHP Billitons strategy remains unchanged and Our Charter values of Sustainability, Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability will continue to define and guide us.
