8 Service contracts and policy on loss of office The terms of employment for the CEO are formalised in his employment contract.
Key terms of the current contract and relevant payments on loss of office are shown below.
If a new CEO or another Executive Director was appointed, similar contractual terms would apply, other than where the Remuneration Committee determines that different terms should apply for reasons specific to the individual.
The CEOs contract has no fixed term.
It can be terminated by BHP Billiton on 12 months notice.
BHP Billiton can terminate the contract immediately by paying base salary plus pension contributions for the notice period.
The CEO must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
The table below sets out the basis on which payments on loss of office may be made.
1 2 Leaving reason Death, serious injury, Cessation of employment with 3 4 Voluntary resignation Termination for cause disability or illness the agreement of the Board Base salary for the notice No payment will be made.
Base salary will be paid for Base salary for the notice Base salary period will be paid as a lump a period of up to four months, period will be paid as a lump sum or progressively over after which time employment sum or progressively over the notice period.
Pension Pension contributions for the No pension contributions Pension contributions will be Pension contributions for the notice period will be paid as will be provided from the paid for a period of up to four notice period will be paid as a lump sum or progressively date of termination.
months, after which time a lump sum or progressively over the notice period.
Benefits Applicable benefits may No benefits will be provided.
Applicable benefits may Applicable benefits may continue to be provided continue to be provided continue to be provided Accumulated annual leave during the notice period.
for the relevant year in entitlements and any statutory which employment ceases.
Accumulated annual leave payments will be paid.
Accumulated annual leave entitlements and any statutory entitlements and any statutory Accumulated annual leave Applicable expenses may payments will also be paid.
payments will also be paid.
entitlements and any statutory be paid for repatriation to payments will also be paid.
Applicable expenses may the home location where Applicable expenses may be paid for repatriation to a relocation has been be paid for repatriation to Applicable expenses may the home location where requested by BHP Billiton.
the home location where be paid for repatriation to a relocation has been a relocation has been the home location where Unvested Shareplus requested by BHP Billiton.
a relocation has been Matched Shares will lapse.
Unvested Shareplus Unvested Shareplus Matched Matched Shares will lapse.
Unvested Shareplus Matched Shares will vest in full.
STI Where CEO leaves No STI will be paid.
The Committee may The Committee may determine during the financial determine in its discretion in its discretion to pay an year or after the end to pay an amount in amount in respect of the of the financial year, respect of the participants participants performance but before an award performance for that year.
Unvested STIP equity Will lapse.
Will continue to be held, on the existing terms, for the scheduled deferral period before vesting subject to a Committee discretion to lapse some or all of the award.
The awards remain subject to malus and clawback.
Vested but Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for the Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for unexercised the rest of the exercise period, rest of the exercise period, the rest of the exercise period.
the rest of the exercise period, STIP equity unless the Committee unless the Committee or for a reduced exercise determines they will lapse.
period, unless the Committee determines they will lapse.
Unvested GIS equity Will lapse.
Will vest in full, except in the case of a leaving reason not specified in the plan rules, in which case the Committee has discretion to determine the treatment of equity awards.
Vested GIS Options Will be retained for the Will lapse.
Will be retained for the Will be retained for the with a market-based scheduled exercise period, scheduled exercise period, scheduled exercise period, exercise price and on the existing terms.
and on the existing terms.
previously provided to the CEO if still held on leaving.
LTI Unvested awards Will lapse.
A pro rata portion of unvested awards based on the proportion of the performance period served will continue to be held subject to the LTIP rules and terms of grant.
Vested but Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for Will remain exercisable for unexercised awards the rest of the exercise period, the rest of the exercise period, the rest of the exercise period.
the rest of the exercise period, unless the Committee unless the Committee or for a reduced exercise determines they will lapse.
1 If the Committee considers it to be necessary, BHP Billiton may enter into agreements with a CEO which may include the settlement of liabilities in return for payment s, including reimbursement of legal fees subject to appropriate conditions: or to enter into new arrangements with the departing CEO for example, entering into consultancy arrangements.
2 In the e vent of a change in control event e. g. takeover, compromise or arrangement, winding up of the Company as defined in the STIP and LTIP rules: base salary, pension contributions and benefits will be paid until the date of the change of control event: the Committee may determine that a cash payment be made in respect of performance during the current financial year and all unvested STI equity awards would vest in full: the Committee may determine that unvested LTI awards will either vest to the extent that the Committee determines appropriate with reference to performance against the performance condition up to the date of the change of control event and expectations regarding future performance or that the awards be lapsed if the Committee determines that the holders will participate in an acceptable alternative employee equity plan as a term of the change of control event.
3 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to death, serious injury, disability or illness that prohibits continued employment or total and permanent disablement.
4 Defined as occurring when a participant leaves BHP Billiton due to forced early retirement, retrenchment or redundancy, termination by mutual agreement or retirement with the agreement of the Company, or such other circumstances that do not constitute resignation or termination for cause.
