1 Strategic Report continued 1.7 Management of risk 1.7.
1 Approach to risk management We believe the identification and management of risk are central These include that: to achieving our corporate purpose of creating long-term The potential for impacts on the achievement of our corporate shareholder value.
purpose and business plans is identified through risk assessments using approved materiality and tolerability criteria.
The severity Risk has the potential to impact our health and safety, environment, of any risk event is assessed according to a matrix that describes community, reputation, regulatory, market and financial performance the degree of harm, injury or loss from the most severe impact and thereby the achievement of our corporate purpose.
associated with that risk event, assuming reasonable By understanding and managing risk, we provide greater certainty effectiveness of controls.
and confidence for our shareholders, employees, customers, A risk assessment risk identification, risk analysis, including suppliers, and for the communities in which we operate.
Successful likelihood and impact assessment and risk evaluation is risk management can be a source of competitive advantage.
conducted for material risk issues.
Our risks are viewed and managed on a Group-wide basis.
Risk controls are designed, implemented, operated and assessed The natural diversification in our portfolio of commodities, to produce a residual risk that is tolerable.
Performance standards geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities is a key element are established for critical controls over material risks with in our risk management approach.
Risk management is embedded in our critical business activities, We have established processes that apply when entering or functions and processes.
Materiality and our tolerance for risk commencing new activities in high-risk countries.
Risk assessments are key considerations in our decision-making.
and a supporting risk management plan are required to ensure that potential reputation, legal, business conduct and corruptionRisk issues are identified, analysed and assessed in a consistent related exposures are managed and legislative compliance is manner.
Performance requirements exist for the identification, maintained, including relevant anti-corruption legislation and the assessment, control and monitoring of material risk issues that application of any relevant sanctions or trade embargos.
could threaten our corporate purpose and business plans.
Our risk management governance approach is described in sections 3.14.1 and 3.15 of this Annual Report.
2 Risk factors We believe that because of the international scope of our operations and the industries in which we are engaged, there are numerous factors that may have an adverse effect on our results and operations.
The following describes the material risks that could affect BHP Billiton.
External risks Fluctuations in commodity prices and impacts of ongoing Our financial results may be negatively affected by currency global economic volatility may negatively affect our results, exchange rate fluctuations including cash flows and asset values Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide The prices we obtain for our oil, gas and minerals are determined variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the by, or linked to, prices in world markets, which have historically countries in which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates been subject to substantial volatility.
Our usual policy is to sell our of those currencies may have a significant impact on our financial products at the prevailing market prices.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of by our relatively broad portfolio of commodities does not fully our sales are denominated and the currency in which we present insulate the effects of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity our financial performance.
Operating costs are influenced by the prices can occur due to price shifts reflecting underlying global currencies of those countries where our mines and mine economic and geopolitical factors, industry demand, increased processing plants are located and also by those currencies supply due to the development of new productive resources, in which the costs of imported equipment and services are technological change, product substitution and national tariffs.
The Australian dollar, Chilean peso and US dollar are We are particularly exposed to price movements in iron ore, coal, some of the currencies influencing our operating costs.
We do not copper, and oil and gas.
For example, a US$1 per tonne decline generally believe that active currency hedging provides long-term in the average iron ore price and US$1 per barrel decline in the benefits to our shareholders.
From time to time, we consider average oil price would have an estimated impact on FY2015 profit currency protection measures appropriate in specific commercial after taxation of US$144 million and US$54 million, respectively.
circumstances, subject to strict limits established by our Board.
For further information relating to commodity price impacts, refer to section 1.15.1 of this Annual Report.
Volatility in global economic growth, particularly in the developing economies, has the potential to adversely impact future demand and prices for commodities.
The impact of potential long-term sustained price shifts and short-term price volatility, including the effects of unwinding the sustained monetary stimulus in the United States, creates the risk that our financial and operating results, including cash flows and asset values, will be materially and adversely affected by unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
20 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued External risks Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively impact our results Our operations are based on material long-term investments that are dependent on long-term fiscal stability and could be adversely The Chinese market has been driving global materials demand impacted by changes in fiscal legislation.
The natural resources and pricing over the past decade.
Sales into China generated industry continues to be regarded as a source of tax revenue US$16.3 billion FY2014: US$21.8 billion or 36.6 per cent FY2014: and can also be impacted by broader fiscal measures applying 38.5 per cent of our revenue in FY2015.
The FY2015 sales into to businesses generally.
China by Business included 66 per cent Iron Ore, 23 per cent Copper, nine per cent Coal, one per cent Nickel West reported in Our business could be adversely affected by new government Group and Unallocated and one per cent Petroleum.
A continued regulations and international standards, such as controls on slowing in Chinas economic growth and demand could result in imports, exports, prices and greenhouse gas emissions.
Increasing lower prices for our products and negatively impact our results, requirements relating to regulatory, environmental and social including cash flows.
or community approvals can potentially result in significant delays in construction and may adversely affect the economics of new Actions by governments or political events in the countries in mining and oil and gas projects, the expansion of existing operations which we operate could have a negative impact on our business and results of our operations.
Infrastructure, such as rail, ports, We have operations or interests e. g. through our non-operated power and water, is critical to our business operations.
We have assets in various countries around the globe, which have varying operations or potential development projects in countries where degrees of political, judicial and commercial stability.
We operate government-provided infrastructure or regulatory regimes for or have interests in certain emerging markets, which may involve access to infrastructure, including our own privately operated additional risks that could have an adverse impact on the profitability infrastructure, may be inadequate or uncertain or subject to of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, legislative change.
The impact of climate change may increase judicial activism, regulatory investigation, nationalisation, competition for, and the regulation of, limited resources, such protectionism, renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, as power and water.
These factors may adversely impact the leases, permits or other agreements, imposts, controls or efficient operations and expansion of our business.
prohibitions on the production or use of certain products, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital and changes We operate in countries where ownership of land is uncertain and in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
Risks where disputes may arise in relation to ownership.
For example, relating to bribery and corruption, including possible delays in Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the establishment or disruption resulting from a refusal to make so-called facilitation and recognition of native title under certain circumstances.
payments, may be prevalent in some of the countries in which These regulations are complex, difficult to predict and outside we operate.
If any of our major operations are affected by one our control and could negatively affect our Company, future or more of these risks, it could have a negative effect on our results and our financial condition.
operations in those countries, as well as the Groups overall operating results and financial condition.
Business risks Failure to discover or acquire new resources, maintain reserves or Potential changes to our portfolio of assets through acquisitions develop new operations could negatively affect our future results and divestments may have a material adverse effect on our future and financial condition results and financial condition The demand for our products and production from our operations We regularly review the composition of our asset portfolio and results in existing reserves being depleted over time.
As our from time to time may add assets to the portfolio or divest assets revenues and profits are derived from our oil and gas and minerals from the portfolio.
There are a number of risks associated with such operations, our future results and financial condition are directly acquisitions or divestments.
These include adverse market reaction related to the success of our exploration and acquisition efforts, to such changes or the timing or terms on which such changes and our ability to generate reserves to meet our future production are made, the imposition of adverse regulatory conditions and requirements at a competitive cost.
Exploration activity occurs obligations, commercial objectives not being achieved as expected, adjacent to established operations and in new regions, in developed unforeseen liabilities arising from such changes to the portfolio, and less-developed countries.
These activities may increase land sales revenues and operational performance not meeting our tenure, infrastructure and related political risks.
A failure in our expectations, anticipated synergies or cost savings being ability to discover or acquire new resources, maintain reserves or delayed or not being achieved, inability to retain key staff develop new operations in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow and transaction-related costs being more than anticipated.
the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, These factors could negatively affect our reputation, future financial condition and prospects.
Increased costs and schedule delays may adversely affect our Future deterioration in commodities pricing may make some existing reserves uneconomic.
Our actual drilling activities development projects and future drilling budget will depend on our mineral inventory Although we devote significant time and resources to our project size and quality, drilling results, commodity prices, drilling and planning, approval and review process, many of our development production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside our lease expirations, transportation pipelines, railroads and other control, which may cause us to underestimate the cost or time infrastructure constraints, regulatory approvals and other factors.
For instance, incidents during development projects may cause setbacks or cost overruns, There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating mineral required licences, permits or authorisations to build a project and oil and gas reserves.
Geological assumptions about our may be unobtainable at anticipated costs, or may be obtained mineralisation that are valid at the time of estimation may change only after significant delay and market conditions may change, significantly when new information becomes available.
Estimates thereby making a project less profitable than initially projected.
of reserves that will be recovered or the cost at which we anticipate such reserves will be recovered are based on uncertain assumptions.
In addition, we may fail to manage projects as effectively The uncertain global financial outlook may affect economic as we anticipate and unforeseen challenges may emerge.
assumptions related to reserve recovery and may require reserve Any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule restatements.
Reserve restatements could negatively affect our delays at our development projects and impact anticipated results and prospects.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 21 1 Strategic Report continued 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued Financial risks If our liquidity and cash flow deteriorate significantly it could The commercial counterparties we transact with may not meet adversely affect our ability to fund our major capital programs their obligations, which may negatively impact our results We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating as part of our strategy.
We contract with a large number of commercial and financial However, fluctuations in commodity prices and the ongoing global counterparties, including end-customers, suppliers and financial economic volatility may adversely impact our future cash flows institutions.
Global economic volatility continues to strain global and ability to access capital from financial markets at acceptable financial markets, with tighter liquidity in China and uncertain pricing.
If our key financial ratios and credit rating are not business conditions generally.
We maintain a one book approach maintained, our liquidity and cash reserves, interest rate costs with commercial counterparties to ensure all credit exposures on borrowed debt, future access to financial capital markets are quantified.
Our existing counterparty credit controls may not and the ability to fund current and future major capital programs prevent a material loss due to credit exposure to a major customer could be adversely affected.
In addition, customers, suppliers, contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against We may not fully recover our investments in mining, oil and gas existing contracts and obligations.
Non-supply of key inputs, such assets, which may require financial write-downs as tyres, mining and mobile equipment, diesel and other key One or more of our assets may be impacted by changed market consumables, may unfavourably impact costs and production at or industry structures, commodity prices, technical operating our operations.
These factors could negatively affect our financial difficulties, inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves condition and results of operations.
and increased operating cost levels.
These may cause us to fail to recover all or a portion of our investment in mining and oil and gas assets and may require financial write-downs, including goodwill adversely impacting our financial results.
Operational risks Cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively impact Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may adversely our operating margins and expansion plans impact our operations Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in many industry.
As the prices for our products are determined by the geographic locations, both onshore and offshore.
Our key port global commodity markets in which we operate, we do not facilities are located at Coloso and Antofagasta in Chile, and Port generally have the ability to offset these cost pressures through Hedland and Hay Point in Australia.
We have five underground corresponding price increases, which can adversely affect our mines, including three underground coal mines.
Notwithstanding our efforts to reduce costs processes may be subject to operational accidents, such as port and a number of key cost inputs being commodity price-linked, and shipping incidents, underground mine and processing plant the inability to reduce costs and a timing lag may adversely impact fire and explosion, open-cut pit wall failures, loss of power supply, our operating margins for an extended period.
railroad incidents, loss of well control, environmental pollution and mechanical critical equipment failures.
Our operations may also be A number of our operations, such as copper, are energy or water subject to unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, intensive and, as a result, the Groups costs and earnings could flood, hurricanes and tsunamis.
Our northwest Western Australia be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply interruptions.
iron ore, Queensland coal and Gulf of Mexico oil and gas operations These could include the unavailability of energy, fuel or water are located in areas subject to cyclones or hurricanes.
Our Chilean due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations in climate, copper operations are located in a known earthquake and tsunami inadequate infrastructure capacity, interruptions in supply due zone.
Based on our risk management and concerns about the value to equipment failure or other causes and the inability to extend of external insurance in the natural resource sector, our risk supply contracts on economic terms.
financing insurance approach is to minimise or not to purchase Many of our Australian employees have conditions of employment, external insurance for certain risks, including property damage, including wages, governed by the operation of the Australian Fair business interruption, construction-related risk, marine cargo and Work Act 2009.
Conditions of employment are often contained primary liability risks.
Existing business continuity plans may not within collective agreements that are required to be renegotiated provide protection for all of the costs that arise from such events.
on expiry typically every three to four years.
In some instances, The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in production, under the operation of the Fair Work Act it can be expected increased costs and loss of facilities.
Where external insurance is that unions will pursue increases to conditions of employment, purchased, third party claims arising from these events may exceed including wages, and or claims for greater union involvement the limit of liability of the insurance policies we have in place.
Our non-operated assets may not comply with our standards In circumstances where a collective agreement is being Some of our assets are operated and managed by joint venture renegotiated, industrial action is permitted under the Fair Work partners or by other companies.
Management of our non-operated Act.
Industrial action and any subsequent settlement to mitigate assets may not comply with our management and operating associated commercial damage can adversely affect productivity, standards, controls and procedures, including our health, safety, customer perceptions as a reliable supplier and contribute to environment and community HSEC standards.
Failure to adopt increases in costs.
equivalent standards, controls and procedures at these assets could lead to higher costs and reduced production and adversely The industrial relations environment in Chile remains challenging impact our results and reputation.
and it is possible that we will see further disruptions.
Changes to labour legislation are being considered by the Chilean Congress, Breaches in our information technology security processes may and if passed would result in the right to have a single negotiating adversely impact our business activities body across different operations owned by a single company, We maintain information technology IT systems, consisting which may also result in higher risk of operational stoppages.
of infrastructure, business applications and communications networks to support our business activities.
These systems may These factors could lead to increased operating costs at existing be subject to security breaches e. g. cyber-crime that can result operations and could negatively impact our operating margins in misappropriation of funds, increased health and safety risks and expansion plans.
to staff, disruption to our operations, environmental damage, poor product quality, loss of intellectual property, disclosure of commercially sensitive information and reputational damage.
22 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued Sustainability risks Safety, health, environmental and community impacts, Hydraulic fracturing incidents or accidents and related regulations may adversely Our Onshore US operations involve hydraulic fracturing, affect our people, operations and reputation or licence to operate an essential and common practice in the oil and gas industry to stimulate production of natural gas and oil from dense Safety subsurface rock formations.
Hydraulic fracturing involves Potential safety events that may have a material adverse impact using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture on our operations include fire, explosion or rock fall incidents in the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation, to allow flow of underground mining operations, personnel conveyance equipment hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We routinely apply hydraulic failures in underground operations, aircraft incidents, incidents fracturing techniques in our drilling and completion programs.
involving light vehicles and mining mobile equipment, ground control failures, well blowouts, explosions or gas leaks, and Attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead accidents involving inadequate isolation and working from to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using heights or lifting operations.
Increased regulation could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure and well Health construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations.
Health risks faced include fatigue, musculoskeletal illnesses and In the United States, the hydraulic fracturing process is typically occupational exposure to noise, silica, diesel exhaust particulate, regulated by relevant US state regulatory bodies.
Some states nickel and sulphuric acid mist.
Longer-term health impacts may are considering changes to regulations in relation to permitting, arise due to unanticipated workplace exposures or historical public disclosure, and or well construction requirements on exposures of our workforce to hazardous substances.
These hydraulic fracturing and related operations, including the possibility effects may create future financial compensation obligations.
of outright bans on the process.
Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas Given we operate globally, we may be affected by potential the states in which we currently operate have adopted various pandemic influenza outbreaks, such as A H1N1 and avian flu, laws and regulations, or issued regulatory guidance, concerning in any of the regions in which we operate.
Environment Several US federal agencies are also reviewing or advancing Environmental incidents have the potential to lead to material regulatory proposals concerning hydraulic fracturing and related operations.
The US Environmental Protection Agency EPA adverse impacts on our operations.
These include uncontrolled tailings containment breaches, subsidence from mining activities, commenced a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water resources.
The agency issued a escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons.
non-determinative Progress Report in December 2012 and is expected to issue a final draft assessment report for peer review Our operations by their nature have the potential to adversely and comment in CY2015.
As part of the studies efforts, the EPA impact biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystem released a preliminary analysis on 30 March 2015.
Changes in scientific understanding of these impacts, expected to issue a final report for peer review in CY2016.
regulatory requirements or stakeholder expectations may prevent The EPAs Office of Inspector General continues to research or delay project approvals and result in increased costs for the EPAs and states ability to manage potential threats to water mitigation, offsets or compensatory actions.
resources from hydraulic fracturing, with a possible longer-term We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
The US Bureau of Land Management BLM issued Our operating and closed facilities are required to have closure a final rule on 20 March 2015 that would impose new requirements plans.
Changes in regulatory or community expectations may on hydraulic fracturing operations conducted on federal lands, result in the relevant plans not being adequate.
This may increase including the disclosure of chemicals used, wellbore integrity, financial provisioning and costs at the affected operations.
water use and disposal of flow back water.
The BLM regulation took effect on 24 June 2015.
Activity at the federal level, including the Community ongoing EPA study, BLM rules and other analysis by federal and Local communities may become dissatisfied with the impact of state agencies to assess the impacts of hydraulic fracturing, our operations or oppose our new development projects, including could spur additional legislative or regulatory actions.
through litigation, potentially affecting costs and production, While we have not experienced a material delay or substantially and in extreme cases viability.
Community related risks may higher operating costs in our Onshore US operations as a result include community protests or civil unrest, and may cause delays of current regulatory requirements, we cannot predict whether to proposed developments.
Our operations or activities also risk additional federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted inadvertent breaches of human rights or other international laws and what such actions would require or prohibit.
legislation or regulation could subject our operations to delays and HSE legislation increased costs, or prohibit certain activities, which could adversely The nature of the industries in which we operate means affect the financial performance of our Onshore US operations.
many of our activities are highly regulated by health, safety Due to the nature of our operations, HSEC incidents or accidents and environmental HSE laws.
As regulatory standards and and related regulations may adversely affect our reputation or expectations are constantly developing, we may be exposed licence to operate.
to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental rehabilitation expenses.
Legislation requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, to establish that the substances can be used without negatively affecting health or the environment may impact our operations and markets.
Potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory delays, rehabilitation expenses and operational costs arising from such legislation could negatively affect our financial results.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 23 1 Strategic Report continued 1.7.
2 Risk factors continued Sustainability risks continued Climate change may impact the value of our Company, and our There is a potential gap between the current valuation of fossil fuel reserves on the balance sheets of companies and in global operations and markets equities markets and the reduced value that could result if The physical impacts of climate change and various regulations a significant proportion of reserves were rendered incapable that seek to address climate change may negatively affect our of extraction in an economically viable fashion due to technology, operations, productivity and the markets in which we sell our regulatory or market responses to climate change.
Fossil fuel-related emissions are a significant source a scenario, stranded reserve assets held on our balance sheet of greenhouse gases contributing to climate change.
We produce may need to be impaired or written off and our inability to make fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas for sale to customers, and productive use of such assets may also negatively impact we use fossil fuels in our mining and processing operations either our financial condition and results.
directly or through the purchase of fossil fuel-based electricity.
The growth of alternative energy supply options, such as renewables A number of national governments have already introduced, and nuclear, could also present a change to the energy mix that or are contemplating the introduction of, regulatory responses may impact on fossil fuel markets.
to greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels to address the impacts of climate change.
This includes countries The physical effects of climate change on our operations may where we have operations such as Australia, the United States include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, rising sea and Chile, as well as customer markets such as China, India and levels, increased storm intensities and higher temperatures.
In addition, the international community aims to complete These effects may adversely impact the financial performance a new global climate agreement at the 21st Conference of the of our operations.
Parties COP21 in Paris in December 2015.
The absence of A breach of our governance processes may lead to regulatory regulatory certainty, global policy inconsistencies and the challenges penalties and loss of reputation presented by managing our portfolio across a variety of regulatory We operate in a global environment that encompasses multiple frameworks has the potential to adversely impact our operations jurisdictions and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance and supply chain.
From a medium to long-term perspective, and compliance processes, which include the review of internal we are likely to see some adverse changes in the cost position controls over financial reporting and specific internal controls of our greenhouse gas-intensive assets and energy-intensive assets in relation to trade and financial sanctions, and offers of things as a result of regulatory impacts in the countries where we operate.
of value to government officials and representatives of state-owned These proposed regulatory mechanisms may impact our operations enterprises, may not prevent future potential breaches of law, directly or indirectly through our suppliers and customers.
Our Code of Business Conduct, Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change together with our mandatory policies, such as the anti-corruption, regulation are uncertain given the wide scope of potential trade and financial sanctions and competition policies, may regulatory change in the many countries in which we operate.
not prevent instances of fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty For example, the Australian Government repealed a carbon nor guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements.
tax in 2014 and carbon pricing is being discussed as part This may lead to regulatory fines, disgorgement of profits, of a broader tax reform package in Chile.
litigation, loss of operating licences and or reputational damage.
3 Management of principal risks The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results and performance are described in section 1.7.
Our approach to managing these risks is outlined below.
Principal risk area Risk management approach External risks Risks arise from falls in commodity The diversification of our portfolio of commodities, geographies and currencies is a key prices and demand in major markets strategy for reducing the effects of volatility.
Section 1.15.1 of this Annual Report describes such as China or Europe or changes external factors and trends affecting our results and note 23 Financial risk management in currency exchange rates and actions to the Financial Statements outlines the Groups financial risk management strategy, including by governments and political events market, commodity, and currency risk.
The Financial Risk Management Committee oversees that impact long-term fiscal stability.
these risks as described in sections 3.15 and 3.16.
We also engage with governments and other key stakeholders to ensure the potential adverse impacts of proposed fiscal, tax, resource investment, infrastructure access and regulatory changes are understood and where possible mitigated.
Business risks Risks include the inherent uncertainty Our Geoscience Technology and Engineering function provides governance and technical of identifying and proving reserves, leadership for Mineral Resource development and Ore Reserves reporting as described adding and divesting assets in section 2.3.
Our governance over reporting of Petroleum reserves is described and managing our capital in section 2.3.
We have established investment approval processes that apply to all major capital projects and asset divestment and acquisitions.
The Investment Committee oversees these as described in sections 3.15 and 3.16.
Our Project Management function additionally seeks to ensure that projects are safe, predictable and competitive, and it has established a continuous improvement practice.
24 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.7.
3 Management of principal risks continued Principal risk area Risk management approach Financial risks Continued volatility in global financial We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating, supported by our portfolio risk management markets may adversely impact future strategy.
As part of this strategy, the diversification of our portfolio reduces overall cash flow cash flows, our ability to adequately volatility.
Commodity prices and currency exchange rates are not hedged, and wherever access and source capital from possible we take the prevailing market price.
We use Cash Flow at Risk analysis to monitor financial markets and our credit volatilities and key financial ratios.
Credit limits and review processes are required to be rating.
Volatility may impact planned established for all customers and financial counterparties.
The Financial Risk Management expenditures, as well as the ability Committee oversees these as described in sections 3.15 and 3.16.
Note 23 Financial risk to recover investments in mining management to the Financial Statements outlines our financial risk management strategy.
In addition, the commercial counterparties customers, suppliers and financial institutions we transact with may, due to adverse market conditions, fail to meet their contractual obligations.
Operational risks Operating cost pressures and reduced We seek to ensure that adequate operating margins are maintained through our strategy productivity could negatively impact to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost and expandable upstream assets.
operating margins and expansion plans.
The Groups concentrated effort to reduce operating costs and drive productivity improvements Non-operated assets may not comply has realised tangible results, with a reduction in controllable costs.
Unexpected natural The capability to sustain productivity improvements is being further enhanced through and operational catastrophes may continued refinements to our Operating Model.
The Operating Model is designed to deliver adversely impact our operations.
a simple and scalable organisation, providing a competitive advantage through defining work, Breaches in IT security processes may organisation and performance measurements.
Defined global business processes, including adversely impact the conduct of our 1SAP, provide a standardised way of working across the organisation.
generate useful data and improve operating discipline.
Global sourcing arrangements have been established to ensure continuity of supply and competitive costs for key supply inputs.
We seek to influence the application of our standards to non-operated assets.
Through the application of our risk management processes, we identify catastrophic operational risks and implement the critical controls and performance requirements to maintain control effectiveness.
Business continuity plans are required to be established to mitigate consequences.
Consistent with our portfolio risk management approach, we continue to be largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage, business interruption and construction.
From an industrial relations perspective, detailed planning is undertaken to support the renegotiation of employment agreements and is supported by training and access to expertise in negotiation and agreement making.
IT security controls to protect IT infrastructure, business applications and communication networks and respond to security incidents are in place and subject to regular monitoring and assessment.
To maintain adequate levels of protection, we also continue to monitor the development of threats in the external environment and assess potential responses to those threats.
Sustainability risks HSEC incidents or accidents may Our approach to sustainability risks is reflected in Our Charter and described in section 1.14, adversely affect our people or including a Company-level safety intervention that was initiated in FY2015.
A comprehensive set neighbouring communities, operations of Group Level Documents GLDs set out Group-wide HSEC-related performance requirements and reputation or licence to operate.
designed to ensure effective management control of these risks.
The potential physical impacts and Our approach to corporate planning, investment decision-making and portfolio management related responses to climate change provides a focus on the identification, assessment and management of climate change risks.
may impact the value of our Company, We have been applying an internal price on carbon in our investment decisions for more than and operations and markets.
Through a comprehensive and strategic approach to corporate planning, we work we operate in a challenging global with a broad range of scenarios to assess our portfolio, including consideration of a broad environment straddling multiple range of potential policy responses to and impacts from climate change.
Our models suggest jurisdictions, a breach of our that BHP Billitons portfolio diversification results in the resilience of our overall asset valuation governance processes may lead through all these scenarios.
to regulatory penalties and loss Our approach to engagement with community stakeholders is outlined in our Community GLD.
Businesses are also required to undertake social impact opportunity assessments to identify, mitigate or manage key potential social and human rights risks.
As with our other risks, for climate change risk our Risk Management GLD provides the framework for risk management.
Internal audits are conducted to test compliance with GLD requirements and action plans are developed to address any gaps.
Key findings are reported to senior management and reports are considered by relevant Board committees.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out requirements related to working with integrity, including dealings with government officials and third parties.
Processes and controls are in place for the internal control over financial reporting, including under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We have established anti-corruption and antitrust related performance requirements, which are overseen by the Legal and Compliance function as described in section 3.17.
Additionally, the Disclosure Committee oversees our compliance with securities dealing obligations and continuous and periodic disclosure obligations as described in sections 3.15 and 3.18.
