6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 9.3.
2 DLC structure 9.1 History and development The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC are reflected in the DLC BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and, before that, Structure Sharing Agreement and include the following: The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was incorporated the two companies are to operate as if they are a single unified in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077. economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 same individuals and a unified senior executive management team: and is registered in England and Wales with registration number the Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties 3196209.
Successive predecessor entities to BHP Billiton Plc to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of have operated since 1860.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders Since 29 June 2001, we have operated under a Dual Listed as if the two companies were a single unified economic entity Company DLC structure.
Under the DLC structure, the two and, for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into parent companies, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc, account in the exercise of their powers the interests of the operate as a single economic entity, run by a unified Board shareholders of the other: and management team.
More details of the DLC structure certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
These can be found in section 9.3.
are designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation Ratio BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their between a BHP Billiton Limited share and a BHP Billiton Plc share separate corporate identities and maintained their separate stock is 1:1, the economic and voting interests in the combined exchange listings, but they are operated and managed as a single BHP Billiton Group resulting from the holding of one BHP Billiton unified economic entity, with their boards and senior executive Limited share are equivalent to that resulting from the holding management comprising the same people.
of one BHP Billiton Plc share.
Further details are set out in the sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights below.
Additional documents that affect the DLC include: 9.2 Markets BHP Billiton Limited Constitution As at the date of this Annual Report, BHP Billiton Limited has BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association a primary listing on the Australian Securities Exchange ASX BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed in Australia and BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing on the UK Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares are admitted BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
also has a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions JSE in South Africa.
The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject In addition, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are listed to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
among other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: Trading on the NYSE is via American Depositary Shares ADSs, be an Australian company, which is headquartered in Australia: each representing two ordinary shares which are evidenced by ultimately manage and control the companies conducting American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Citibank N. A. Citibank the business that was conducted by its subsidiaries at the is the Depositary for both ADS programs.
BHP Billiton Limiteds time of the merger for as long as those businesses form part ADSs have been listed for trading on the NYSE ticker BHP since of the BHP Billiton Group.
28 May 1987 and BHP Billiton Plcs since 25 June 2003 ticker BBL.
The conditions also require the global headquarters of the BHP Billiton Group to be in Australia.
9.3 Organisational structure The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 9.3.
1 General or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these and the BHP Billiton Plc Group, operating as a combined enterprise, conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
following the completion of the DLC merger in June 2001.
Refer Failure to comply with the conditions attracts substantial penalties to note 30 Subsidiaries to the Financial Statements of this under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975.
Annual Report for a full list of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc subsidiaries.
Equalisation of economic and voting rights BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders The BHP Billiton DLC merger was designed to place shareholders have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton of both companies in a position where they effectively have an Group.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share interest in a single group that combines the assets, and is subject in one company relative to the economic and voting interests to the liabilities, of both companies.
of a share in the other company are determined by reference to a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its respective shareholders and no matching action was taken.
This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited share is normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice versa.
If one company has insufficient profits or is otherwise unable to pay the agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into such transactions as are necessary to enable both companies to pay the agreed amount of pre-tax dividends per share.
