2 Business overview continued Onshore US 2.1 Business Groups We produce oil, condensate, gas and NGLs in four shale areas: 2.1.
1 Petroleum and Potash Business Eagle Ford, Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville.
Shale reservoirs are characterised by low permeability, so it is necessary to stimulate Our Petroleum and Potash Business headquartered in Houston, the reservoir to create additional permeability and, therefore, the United States, comprises conventional and non-conventional flow of liquids and gas to the wellbore.
Extracting oil and gas from oil and gas operations and a potash project based in shale involves hydraulic fracturing, which is a process developed Saskatchewan, Canada.
to efficiently access supplies of oil and gas locked inside dense subsurface rock formations, such as shale.
Hydraulic fracturing Petroleum involves the use of water, sand and chemicals to fracture the Our Petroleum Business includes exploration, development, hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the well to produce production and marketing activities.
We have a high-quality commercial volumes.
resource base concentrated in the United States and Australia.
Our core production operations are located in the US Gulf Prices for oil, NGLs and gas are based on US regional price of Mexico, Australia and Trinidad and Tobago conventional indices, including West Texas Intermediate prices for oil, relevant and Onshore US unconventional.
We produce crude oil and published US regional gas indices for natural gas and Mont condensate, gas and natural gas liquids NGLs.
Our overall production for FY2015 was 255.7 million barrels Eagle Ford of oil equivalent MMboe.
This was mainly attributable to our The Eagle Ford production operation is located primarily in the US and Australian operations, which produced 162.3 MMboe southern Texas counties of DeWitt, Karnes, McMullen and LaSalle.
and 77.7 MMboe, respectively, with the majority of US production We produce oil, condensate, gas and NGLs from two fields, Black coming from Onshore US, which produced 125.7 MMboe.
The oil and gas produced is sold domestically Operations outside Australia and the United States delivered in the United States, via connections to intrastate and interstate the remaining production volumes.
Information relating to our pipelines, and internationally through the export of processed oil and gas reserves is set out in section 2.3.
The Eagle Ford gathering system consists of 1,602 kilometres of gathering lines that deliver In line with our aim of simplification and a sharper strategic focus, gathered volumes to five central delivery points CDPs, from we continue to evaluate our existing portfolio in order to optimise where processed volumes are transported to market.
our position around our core business.
Our Black Hawk acreage comprises 0.1 million net acres and United States is located primarily in the DeWitt and Karnes Counties in southern Texas.
Our ownership interests range from five per cent to Oklahoma 100 per cent.
A majority of our interest 50 per cent share New Mexico Fayetteville in the Black Hawk is held with Devon Energy.
At 30 June 2015, Arkansas we held an interest in approximately 772 gross wells and Haynesville Mississippi approximately 427 net wells.
We acted as joint venture operator Texas for approximately 15 per cent of our gross wells.
Permian Houston Louisiana Our Hawkville acreage comprises 0.2 million net acres and is located Eagle Ford primarily in the McMullen and La Salle Counties in southern Texas.
Shenzi Our ownership interests range from nine per cent to 100 per cent.
Neptune Gulf of Mexico At 30 June 2015, we held an interest in approximately 494 gross Atlantis wells and approximately 409 net wells.
We acted as joint venture Mad Dog operator for approximately 84 per cent of our gross wells.
Liquids-focused area Permian Gas-focused area The Permian production operation consists of 0.2 million net acres and is primarily located in the western Texas county of Reeves.
We produce oil, gas and NGLs.
The oil and gas produced is Our production operations include the following: sold domestically in the United States, via connections to intrastate Gulf of Mexico and interstate pipelines.
Our ownership interests range from We operate two fields in the Gulf of Mexico Shenzi with a 14 per cent to 100 per cent.
At 30 June 2015, we held an interest 44 per cent interest and Neptune with a 35 per cent interest in approximately 81 gross wells and approximately 75 net wells.
and hold non-operating interests in three other fields Atlantis We acted as joint venture operator for approximately 93 per cent with a 44 per cent interest, Mad Dog with a 23.9 per cent interest, of our gross wells.
The Permian gathering system consists of and Genesis with a 4.95 per cent interest.
We have ongoing 145 kilometres of gathering lines that deliver gathered volumes infill drilling in most of our Gulf of Mexico fields and also planned to third party CDPs, from where processed volumes are transported ongoing water injection wells at the Shenzi and Atlantis fields.
During FY2015, as part of our continued focus on investing All the fields are located between 155 and 210 kilometres offshore and operating core assets, we sold our interest in our upstream from the US state of Louisiana.
We also own 25 per cent and Onshore US Pecos shale operation, located in the Permian Basin, 22 per cent, respectively, of the companies that own and operate to Silverback Exploration, LLC for a cash consideration of the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra gas pipeline.
We also sold our Pecos midstream operations pipelines transport oil and gas from the Green Canyon area, to EagleClaw Midstream, LLC for a cash consideration where our Gulf of Mexico fields are located, to connecting of US$52 million.
pipelines that transport product onshore.
Our US oil production Haynesville is delivered to refineries along the Gulf Coast of the United States.
The Haynesville production operation is located primarily in northern Louisiana and consists of 0.2 million net acres.
We produce gas that is sold domestically in the United States, via connections to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Our ownership interests range from less than one per cent to 100 per cent.
At 30 June 2015, we held an interest in approximately 1,045 gross wells and approximately 395 net wells.
We acted as joint venture operator for approximately 37 per cent of our gross wells.
During FY2015, as part of our continued focus on investing and operating core assets, we sold our interest in our Onshore North Louisiana conventional operations to JW Operating Company for a cash consideration of US$135 million.
