6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 9.9 American Depositary Receipts fees 9.10 Taxation and charges The taxation discussion below describes the material Australian, UK and US federal income tax consequences to a US holder of We have American Depositary Receipts ADR programs owning BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Plc ordinary shares or ADSs.
The discussion below also outlines the Depositary fees potential South African tax issues for US holders of BHP Billiton Plc Citibank serves as the depositary bank for both of our ADR shares that are listed on the JSE.
ADR holders agree to the terms in the deposit agreement The following discussion is not relevant to non-US holders of filed with the SEC for depositing ADSs or surrendering the ADSs BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares or ADSs or BHP Billiton Plc for cancellation and for certain services as provided by Citibank.
By its nature, the commentary below Holders are required to pay all fees for general depositary services is of a general nature and we recommend that holders of ordinary provided by Citibank in each of our ADR programs, as set forth shares or ADSs consult their own tax advisers regarding the in the tables below.
Australian, UK, South African and US federal, state and local tax Standard depositary fees: and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders For purposes of this commentary, a US holder is a beneficial Issuance of ADSs upon Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs owner of ordinary shares or ADSs who is, for US federal income deposit of shares or fraction thereof issued tax purposes: Delivery of Deposited Securities Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs a citizen or resident alien of the US: against surrender of ADSs or fraction thereof surrendered a corporation or other entity treated as a corporation for Distribution of Cash Distributions No fee US federal income tax purposes that is created or organised under the laws of the US or any political subdivision thereof: Corporate actions depositary fees: an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source: or Depositary service Fee payable by the ADR holders a trust: Cash Distributions i. e. sale of rights, Up to US$2.00 per 100 ADSs other entitlements, return of capital or fraction thereof held a if a court within the US is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and one or more US persons have the Distribution of ADSs pursuant Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs authority to control all of its substantial decisions: or to exercise of rights to purchase or fraction thereof held additional ADSs.
Excludes stock b that has made a valid election to be treated as a US person dividends and stock splits for tax purposes.
Distribution of securities other than Up to US$5.00 per 100 ADSs This discussion of material tax consequences for US holders is based ADSs or rights to purchase additional or fraction thereof held on the Australian, UK, US and South African laws currently in effect, ADSs i. e. spin-off shares the published practice of tax authorities in those jurisdictions and Distribution of ADSs pursuant to an No fee the double taxation treaties and conventions currently in existence.
ADR ratio change in which shares are not distributed These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
US holders in BHP Billiton Limited Fees payable by the Depositary to the Issuer a Australian taxation Citibank has provided BHP Billiton net reimbursement of Dividends US$1.7 million in FY2015 for ADR program-related expenses Dividends including other distributions treated as dividends for for both of BHP Billitons ADR programs FY2014 US$1.4 million.
Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a US holder ADR program-related expenses include legal and accounting that is not an Australian resident for Australian tax purposes will fees, listing fees, expenses related to investor relations in the generally not be subject to Australian withholding tax if they are United States, fees payable to service providers for the distribution fully franked broadly, where a dividend is franked, tax paid by of material to ADR holders, expenses of Citibank as administrator BHP Billiton Limited is imputed to the shareholders.
of the ADS Direct Plan and expenses to remain in compliance Dividends paid to such US holders, which are not fully franked, with applicable laws.
will generally be subject to 15 per cent Australian withholding Citibank has further agreed to waive other ADR program-related tax only to the extent if any that the dividend is neither: expenses for FY2015, amounting to less than US$0.03 million, franked: nor which are associated with the administration of the ADR programs declared by BHP Billiton Limited to be conduit foreign income.
Broadly, this means that the relevant part of the dividend Our ADR programs trade on the NYSE under the stock tickers is declared to have been paid out of foreign source amounts BHP and BBL for the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc received by BHP Billiton Limited that are not subject to programs, respectively.
As of 21 August 2015, there were 86,600,415 tax in Australia, such as dividends remitted to Australia ADRs on issue and outstanding in the BHP Billiton Limited ADR by foreign subsidiaries.
program and 41,106,341 ADRs on issue and outstanding in the The Australian withholding tax outcome described above BHP Billiton Plc ADR program.
Both of the ADR programs have applies to US holders who are eligible for benefits under the Tax a 2:1 ordinary shares to ADR ratio.
Convention between Australia and the US as to the Avoidance of Double Taxation the Australian Tax Treaty.
Otherwise, the rate of Australian withholding tax may be 30 per cent.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 313 9 Shareholder information continued In contrast, dividends including other distributions treated as the US holder is an individual who is not eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty as a treaty resident of the US and elected dividends for Australian tax purposes paid by BHP Billiton Limited to a US holder may instead be taxed by assessment in Australia on becoming a non-resident of Australia to continue to have the ordinary shares or ADSs subject to Australian capital gains tax.
if the US holder: is an Australian resident for Australian tax purposes although the The comments above on the sale of ordinary shares and ADSs tax will generally be limited to 15 per cent where the US holder do not apply: is eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty as a treaty to temporary residents of Australia who should seek advice resident of the US and any franking credits may be creditable that is specific to their circumstances: against their Australian income tax liability : or if the Investment Management Regime IMR applies to the carries on business through a permanent establishment in Australia US holder.
In this regard, the Australian Government has passed and the dividend is effectively connected with that permanent legislation to exempt from Australian income tax and capital establishment in which case any franking credits may be creditable gains tax gains made on disposals by certain categories of against their Australian income tax liability : or non-resident funds called IMR entities of relevantly portfolio performs independent personal services from a fixed base interests in Australian public companies subject to a number situated in Australia and the dividend is effectively connected of conditions.
The IMR exemptions broadly apply to widely held with that fixed base.
IMR entities in relation to their direct investments and indirect investments made through an independent Australian fund Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs manager.
The exemptions apply to gains made by IMR entities Gains made by US holders on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs that are treated as companies for Australian tax purposes as well will generally not be taxed in Australia.
as gains made by non-resident investors in IMR entities that are However, the precise Australian tax treatment of gains made treated as trusts and partnerships for Australian tax purposes.
by US holders on the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs generally The IMR exemptions will apply for the 201516 income year and depends on whether or not the gain is an Australian sourced later income years but an entity may choose for the provisions gain of an income nature for Australian income tax purposes.
to apply to certain earlier income years.
Where the gain is Australian sourced and of an income nature, Stamp duty, gift, estate and inheritance tax a US holder will generally only be liable to Australian income tax Australia does not impose any stamp duty, gift, estate or inheritance on an assessment basis whether or not they are also an Australian taxes in relation to transfers or gifts of shares or ADSs or upon the resident for Australian tax purposes if: death of a shareholder.
they are not eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty: or b US taxation they are eligible for benefits under the Australian Tax Treaty but the This section describes the material US federal income tax gain constitutes any of the following: consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
business profits of an enterprise attributable to a permanent It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital establishment situated in Australia through which the enterprise assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder carries on business in Australia: or of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a member of a special class income or gains from the alienation of property that form of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, part of the business property of a permanent establishment a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of an enterprise that the US holder has in Australia, or pertain of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, to a fixed base available to the US holder in Australia for the a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum purpose of performing independent personal services: or tax, a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent income derived from the disposition of shares in a company, or more of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Limited, a person that the assets of which consist wholly or principally of real property holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging which includes rights to exploit or to explore for natural or conversion transaction, a person that purchases or sells ordinary resources situated in Australia, whether such assets are held shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes, or a person directly or indirectly through one or more interposed entities.
whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
Where the gain is either not Australian sourced or is not of an income If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal nature, the US holder will generally only be liable to Australian capital income tax treatment of a partner generally will depend on the status gains tax on an assessment basis if they acquired or are deemed of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
A partner to have acquired their shares or ADSs after 19 September 1985 in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs should consult and one or more of the following applies: its tax adviser with regard to the US federal income tax treatment the US holder is an Australian resident for Australian tax of an investment in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
purposes: or This section is in part based on the representations of the Depositary the ordinary shares or ADSs have been used by the US holder and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement in carrying on a business through a permanent establishment and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with in Australia: or its terms.
the US holder either alone or together with associates directly In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs will or indirectly owns or owned 10 per cent or more of the issued be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by those share capital of BHP Billiton Limited at the time of the disposal ADSs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for ordinary or throughout a 12-month period during the two years prior to the shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax.
time of disposal and, at the time of the disposal, the sum of the market values of BHP Billiton Limiteds assets that are taxable Australian real property held directly or through interposed entities exceeds the sum of the market values of BHP Billiton Limiteds assets held directly or through interposed entities that are not taxable Australian real property at that time which, for these purposes currently includes mining, quarrying or prospecting rights in respect of minerals, petroleum or quarry materials situated in Australia and may be extended to associated information and goodwill : or 314 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information Dividends Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the Passive Foreign Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells Investment Company PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise must include in its gross income the amount of any dividend paid a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal by BHP Billiton Limited out of its current or accumulated earnings to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes plus and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in those ordinary any Australian tax withheld from the dividend payment even though shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss the holder does not receive it.
The dividend is taxable to the holder from sources within the US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, The capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend.
at preferential rates where the holder has a holding period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs sold.
There are limitations Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs on the deductibility of capital losses.
will be taxable at the preferential rates applicable to long-term The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale capital gains provided the US holder holds the shares or ADSs for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other before the ex-dividend date and does not enter into certain risk reduction transactions with respect to the shares or ADSs during disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax basis the abovementioned holding period.
However, a non-corporate US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar amount, and generally will recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the US Internal Revenue Code will not be eligible for such preferential rates.
In the case conversion or other disposal of the foreign currency.
This foreign currency gain or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are taxed as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends received income or loss for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of Passive Foreign Investment Company rules dividends received from other US corporations.
We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and or ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the is made annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares to change.
If BHP Billiton Limited were treated as a PFIC, any gain or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, a US holder The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency would be treated as if it had realised such gain and certain excess will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated by distributions ratably over its holding period for the ordinary shares reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution is or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the Depositary, each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with regardless of whether and when the foreign currency is in fact an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such converted into US dollars.
If the foreign currency is converted into year.
In addition, dividends received with respect to ordinary shares US dollars on the date received, the US holder generally should or ADSs would not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable not recognise foreign currency gain or loss on such conversion.
to qualified dividend income if BHP Billiton Limited were a PFIC If the foreign currency is not converted into US dollars on the date either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable received, the US holder will have a basis in the foreign currency year, but instead would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary equal to its US dollar value on the date received, and generally will income.
Assuming the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, a US recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent conversion holder may mitigate the adverse tax consequences described above or other disposal of such currency.
Such foreign currency gain by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary income respect to such shares or ADSs.
or loss for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
US holders in BHP Billiton Plc Subject to certain limitations, Australian tax withheld in accordance a UK taxation with the Australian Treaty and paid over to Australia will be creditable against an individuals US federal income tax liability.
Special rules Dividends apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect Under UK law, no UK tax is required to be withheld at source to dividends that are taxed at the preferential rates applicable from dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs.
To the extent a refund of the tax withheld Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs is available to a US holder under Australian law or under the Australian US holders will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised Treaty, the amount of tax withheld that is refundable will not be on disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs unless: eligible for credit against the holders US federal income tax liability.
they are resident in the UK: or A US holder that does not elect to claim a US foreign tax credit may instead claim a deduction for Australian income tax withheld, they carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through but only for a taxable year in which the US holder elects to do so a branch or agency for the year in which the disposal occurs with respect to all foreign income taxes paid or accrued in such and the shares or ADSs have been used, held or acquired for taxable year.
the purposes of such trade or profession or vocation, branch or agency.
In the case of a trade, the term branch includes Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and generally a permanent establishment.
will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, general category income, which are treated separately from each other An individual who ceases to be a resident in the UK for tax purposes for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit allowable while owning shares or ADSs and then disposes of those shares to a US holder.
In general, a taxpayers ability to use foreign or ADSs while not a UK resident may become subject to UK tax tax credits may be limited and is dependent on the particular on capital gains if he she: circumstances.
US holders should consult their tax advisers had sole UK residence in the UK tax year preceding his her with respect to these matters.
departure from the UK: had sole UK residence at any time during at least four of the seven UK tax years preceding his her year of departure from the UK: and subsequently becomes treated as having sole UK residence again before five complete UK tax years of non-UK residence have elapsed from the date he she left the UK.
In this situation US holders will generally be entitled to claim US tax paid on such a disposition as a credit against any corresponding UK tax payable.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 315 9 Shareholder information continued UK inheritance tax If a partnership holds the ordinary shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of a partner generally will depend on the status Under the current UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty, ordinary of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
A partner shares or ADSs held by a US holder who is domiciled for the in a partnership holding the ordinary shares or ADSs should consult purposes of the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty in the its tax adviser with regard to the US federal income tax treatment US, and is not for the purposes of the UKUS Inheritance and Gift of an investment in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Tax Treaty a national of the UK, will generally not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a chargeable gift This section is in part based on the representations of the Depositary of the ordinary shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, and the assumption that each obligation in the deposit agreement provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate tax liability and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with is paid, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are part of the business its terms.
property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the In general, for US federal income tax purposes, a holder of ADSs will UK or, in the case of a shareholder who performs independent be treated as the owner of the ordinary shares represented by those personal services, pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADSs, and ADSs for ordinary Where the ordinary shares or ADSs have been placed in trust shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax.
by a settlor who, at the time of settlement, was a US resident shareholder, the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally not Dividends be subject to UK inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the time Under US federal income tax laws and subject to the PFIC rules of settlement, was not domiciled in the US and was a UK national.
discussed below, a US holder must include in its gross income In the exceptional case where the ordinary shares or ADSs are the gross amount of any dividend paid by BHP Billiton Plc out subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined tax, the UKUS Inheritance and Gift Tax Treaty generally provides for US federal income tax purposes.
The dividend is taxable for double taxation to be relieved by means of credit relief.
to the holder when the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax receives the dividend.
Under applicable legislation, UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT is, subject to certain exemptions, payable on Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder on shares or ADSs any issue or transfer of shares to the Depositary or their nominee will be taxable at the preferential rates applicable to long-term where those shares are for inclusion in the ADR program at a capital gains provided that the US holder holds the shares or ADSs rate of 1.5 per cent of their price if issued, the amount of any for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days consideration provided if transferred on sale or their value if before the ex-dividend date and does not enter into certain risk transferred for no consideration.
However, from 1 October 2009, reduction transactions with respect to the shares or ADSs during this 1.5 per cent charge has generally ceased to apply to issues the abovementioned holding period.
However, a non-corporate of shares into European Union EU depositary receipt systems US holder that elects to treat the dividend income as investment and into EU clearance systems.
Further, the First-tier Tribunal income pursuant to Section 163 d 4 of the US Internal Revenue has held that the 1.5 per cent SDRT charge on a transfer of shares Code will not be eligible for such preferential rates.
In the case to an issuer of ADRs as an integral part of a fresh capital raising of a corporate US holder, dividends on shares and ADSs are was incompatible with EU law.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs taxed as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the dividends has confirmed that it will no longer seek to impose the 1.5 per cent received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect SDRT charge on the issue of shares or, where it is integral to the of dividends received from other US corporations.
raising of new capital, the transfer of shares to a depositary receipt Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and issuer or a clearance service, wherever located.
The law in this area profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will may still be susceptible to change.
We recommend advice should be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the be sought in relation to paying the 1.5 per cent SDRT or stamp duty holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares charge in any circumstances.
or ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADS.
No UK stamp The amount of any cash distribution paid in any foreign currency duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADS provided that the will be equal to the US dollar value of such currency, calculated instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date such distribution is the UK.
Transfers of ordinary shares to persons other than the received by the US holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the Depositary, Depositary or their nominee will give rise to stamp duty or SDRT regardless of whether and when the foreign currency is in fact at the time of transfer.
The relevant rate is currently 0.5 per cent converted into US dollars.
If the foreign currency is converted into of the amount payable for the shares.
The purchaser normally pays US dollars on the date received, the US holder generally should the stamp duty or SDRT.
not recognise foreign currency gain or loss on such conversion.
Special rules apply to transactions involving intermediates and If the foreign currency is not converted into US dollars on the date stock lending.
received, the US holder will have a basis in the foreign currency equal to its US dollar value on the date received, and generally will b US taxation recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent conversion This section describes the material US federal income tax or other disposal of such currency.
Such foreign currency gain or loss consequences to a US holder of owning ordinary shares or ADSs.
generally will be treated as US source ordinary income or loss for It applies only to ordinary shares or ADSs that are held as capital foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
This section does not apply to a holder of ordinary shares or ADSs that is a member of a special class Dividends will be income from sources outside the US, and of holders subject to special rules, including a dealer in securities, generally will be passive category income or, for certain taxpayers, a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market method general category income, which are treated separately from of accounting for its securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, each other for the purpose of computing the foreign tax credit a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, allowable to a US holder.
In general, a taxpayers ability to use a person who actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or more foreign tax credits may be limited and is dependent on the of the voting stock of BHP Billiton Plc, a person that holds ordinary particular circumstances.
US holders should consult their shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion tax advisers with respect to these matters.
transaction, a person that purchases or sells ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a wash sale for tax purposes, or a person whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
316 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs Sale of ordinary shares and ADSs Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells A US holder who or which is tax resident in South Africa would or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise be liable for income tax on any profit on disposal of ordinary a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal shares or ADSs, or capital gains tax on any gain on disposal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount of ordinary shares or ADSs, depending on whether the shares realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, and ADSs are held on revenue or capital account.
in those ordinary shares or ADSs.
The gain or loss will generally Income tax is payable on any profit on disposal of ordinary shares be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit or ADSs held by a non-resident US holder where the profit is of limitation purposes.
The capital gain of a non-corporate US holder a revenue nature and sourced in South Africa unless relief is afforded is generally taxed at preferential rates where the holder has a holding under the Double Tax Agreement concluded between South Africa period greater than 12 months in the shares or ADSs sold.
In such a case, the profit would only be taxed in South limitations on the deductibility of capital losses.
Africa if it is attributable to a permanent establishment of that US holder in South Africa.
The US dollar value of any foreign currency received upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will be calculated Where the ordinary shares or ADSs are not held on revenue account, by reference to the spot rate in effect on the date of sale or other non-resident US holders will not be liable for South African tax disposal or, in the case of a cash basis or electing accrual basis on capital gains realised on the disposal of ordinary shares taxpayer, on the settlement date.
A US holder will have a tax basis or ADSs unless: in the foreign currency received equal to that US dollar amount, and such US holders are tax resident in South Africa: generally will recognise foreign currency gain or loss on a subsequent the shares or ADSs are held in a company, where 80 per cent conversion or other disposal of the foreign currency.
This foreign or more of the market value of those shares or ADSs is attributable currency gain or loss generally will be treated as US source ordinary at the time of disposal of those shares or ADSs directly or income or loss for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
indirectly to immovable property situated in South Africa, held Passive Foreign Investment Company rules otherwise than as trading stock: or We do not believe that the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares the US holders interest the shares or ADSs in BHP Billiton Plc or ADSs will be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income is attributable to a permanent establishment which the US holder tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that has in South Africa.
is made annually at the end of the year and thus may be subject A US holder who holds ordinary shares or ADSs connected to change.
If BHP Billiton Plc were treated as a PFIC, any gain realised to a permanent establishment in South Africa will recognise on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would a capital gain or loss for South African income tax purposes in general not be treated as a capital gain.
Instead, a US holder equal to the difference between the Rand value of the amount would be treated as if it had realised such gain and certain excess realised and the holders tax basis, determined in Rand, in those distributions ratably over its holding period for the ordinary shares ordinary shares or ADSs.
The holders tax basis will generally or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for be equal to the cost that was incurred to acquire the shares, each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an if such shares were acquired after 1 October 2001.
The capital interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
gain of a non-residents permanent establishment in South Africa In addition, dividends received with respect to ordinary shares will be taxed at an effective rate of 18.6 per cent.
or ADSs would not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if BHP Billiton Plc were a PFIC either Securities Transfer Tax in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, South African Securities Transfer Tax is levied at 0.25 per cent but instead would be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
in respect of the transfer of ordinary shares or ADSs.
The tax Assuming the shares or ADSs are marketable stock, a US holder is levied on the amount of consideration at which the ordinary may mitigate the adverse tax consequences described above share or ADS is transferred or, where no value is declared, by electing to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with the closing price of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
The tax respect to such shares or ADSs.
is ultimately borne by the person to whom that ordinary share or ADS is transferred.
c South African taxation Dividends Certain US federal income tax consequences of the demerger of As from 1 April 2012, it is possible that US holders of BHP Billiton Plc South32 to US holders in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs that remain South African residents may be subject This section describes certain US federal income tax consequences to South African Dividends Tax, at a maximum rate of 15 per cent, of the demerger of South32 the demerger to US beneficial on any dividends received from shares listed on the JSE.
The South owners of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc shares or ADSs African Dividends Tax will be withheld from the gross amount of the who hold their shares or ADSs as capital assets for US federal dividend paid to the shareholder.
income tax purposes, and who have as their functional currency the US dollar.
This section does not apply to a holder of shares No South African Dividends Tax is required to be withheld from cash or ADSs that is a member of a special class of holders subject to dividends provided the dividends are paid to, inter alia, non-South special rules, including a dealer in securities, a trader in securities African tax resident shareholders or South African tax resident that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for its corporate shareholders including South African pension, provident, securities holdings, a tax-exempt organisation, a life insurance retirement annuity and benefit funds.
However, these dividends company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person who will only be exempt from South African Dividends Tax if these types actually or constructively owns 10 per cent or more of the voting of shareholders provide the requisite exempt declarations to the stock of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, a person that holds regulated intermediaries making the cash dividend payments.
shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion Dividends Tax is nevertheless required to be withheld on dividends transaction, or a person that purchases or sells shares or ADSs paid on ordinary shares and ADSs of BHP Billiton Plc listed on the as part of a wash sale for tax purposes.
For additional information JSE, where such dividends are paid to South African tax resident on the demerger, refer to sections 1.3.
7, and note 29 shareholders who are natural persons individuals or trusts, other Discontinued operations to the Financial Statements of this than closure rehabilitation trusts.
Except for certain exclusions, generally speaking such dividends paid to South African tax resident natural persons or trusts are exempt from South African income tax and as such, the Dividends Tax may be considered as a final and non-creditable levy.
