6 Legal proceedings We are involved from time to time in legal proceedings and Anti-corruption investigation governmental investigations of a character normally incidental In May 2015, the Group announced the resolution of the to our business, including claims and pending actions against previously disclosed investigation by the US Securities and us seeking damages or clarification of legal rights and regulatory Exchange Commission SEC into potential breaches of the inquiries regarding business practices.
In many cases, insurance US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
The US Department or other indemnification protection afforded to us relates to of Justice has also completed its investigation into BHP Billiton such claims and may offset the financial impact on the Group without taking any action.
The investigations related primarily to previously terminated This section summarises the significant legal proceedings minerals exploration and development efforts, as well as hospitality and investigations in which we are currently involved or have provided by BHP Billiton at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.
finalised since the last Annual Report.
The US investigations have now been concluded on all matters.
Actions concerning Cerrejn privatisation The matter was resolved with the SEC pursuant to an administrative order, which imposed a US$25 million civil penalty.
The SEC order As disclosed in last years Annual Report, three actions were made no findings of corrupt intent or bribery by BHP Billiton.
commenced by the non-government organisation, Corporacin Colombia Transparente CCT against various defendants, The SECs findings related to a hospitality program hosted by including Billiton Investment 3 BV and Billiton Investment BHP Billiton that supported its sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing 8 BV, in connection with the privatisation of 50 per cent of Olympic Games.
As part of this program, BHP Billiton invited the Cerrejn Zona Norte CZN mining complex in Colombia customers, suppliers, business partners, and government officials, in 2002 i. e. Popular Actions 1,029, 1,032 and 1,048.
These along with BHP Billiton employees, to the 2008 Beijing Olympic actions are now at an end, with the Court finding against CCT Games.
While BHP Billiton made efforts at the time to address the in favour of the defendants, including Billiton Investment 3 BV risks related to inviting government officials to the 2008 Beijing and Billiton Investment 8 BV.
Olympics, the controls it relied upon were insufficient to satisfy the civil books and records and internal accounting controls A separate action referred to in last years Annual Report arising requirements of the FCPA.
out of the privatisation of the CZN mining complex brought by Mr Martn Nicols Barros Choles against various defendants, The SEC noted the significant cooperation BHP Billiton provided including Carbones del Cerrejn Limited which is 33 per cent during the extensive investigation, which commenced in 2009. owned by Billiton Investment 3 BV has also come to an It also noted the significant remedial actions BHP Billiton has end with the Court finding against Mr Choles and in favour taken over the past five years to enhance its compliance program.
of the defendants, including Carbones del Cerrejn Limited.
At the time of its sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Olympics and Paralympics, BHP Billiton had no independent compliance function.
Instead, accountability for complying with BHP Billitons anti-corruption policies, which were set out in BHP Billitons Guide to Business Conduct, was vested in its operating business units.
BHP Billiton has since created an independent compliance function that reports to the head of the legal function and the Risk and Audit Committee of the BHP Billiton Board.
Today, this compliance function would be required to approve any offer of hospitality of this kind to a government official.
Under the SEC order, BHP Billiton will self-report on its compliance program to the SEC for a period of 12 months following the date of the SEC order 20 May 2015.
As previously disclosed, an investigation by the Australian Federal Police AFP is ongoing and the Group continues to co-operate.
In light of the continuing nature of the AFP investigation, it is not appropriate at this stage for BHP Billiton to predict outcomes.
