1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.10 Independence The Board is committed to ensuring a majority of Directors is Retirement plan independent.
The Board considers that all the current Non-executive As a former Director of BHP Limited prior to the establishment Directors, including the Chairman, are independent.
of the Dual Listed Company structure with Billiton Plc in 2001, Dr Schubert participated in a retirement plan approved by Process to determine independence shareholders in 1989.
The plan was closed on 24 October 2003.
The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the Benefits accrued to that date, together with interest earned on independence of its Directors.
This determination is carried the benefits, have been preserved and will be paid on retirement.
out upon appointment, annually and at any other time The Board does not believe that the independence of Dr Schubert where the circumstances of a Director change such as is compromised as a result of this plan.
Relationships and associations A copy of the policy on Independence of Directors is available Lindsay Maxsted was the CEO of KPMG in Australia from 2001 online at w w w. bhpbillit on.
com aboutus ourcompan y go vernance.
The Board considers that this prior relationship with Under the policy, an independent Director is one who is: KPMG does not materially interfere with Mr Maxsteds exercise independent of management and any business or other of objective, unfettered or independent judgement, or his ability relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise to act in the best interests of the BHP Billiton Group.
The Board of objective, unfettered or independent judgement by the has determined, consistent with its policy on the independence Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of Directors, that Mr Maxsted is independent.
The Board notes of the BHP Billiton Group.
in particular that: Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, at the time of his appointment to the Board, more than three but is affected by circumstances that appear relevant to the years had elapsed since Mr Maxsteds retirement from KPMG.
Boards assessment of independence, the Board has undertaken The Director independence rules and guidelines that apply to explain the reasons why it reached its conclusion.
In applying to the Group which are a combination of Australian, UK and the independence test, the Board considers relationships with US rules and guidelines all use three years as the benchmark management, major shareholders, subsidiary and associated cooling off period for former audit firm partners: companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts Mr Maxsted has no financial e. g. pension, retainer or advisory business against pre-determined materiality thresholds, all fee or consulting arrangements with KPMG: of which are set out in the policy.
A summary of the factors Mr Maxsted was not part of the KPMG audit practice after that may be perceived to impact the independence of certain 1980 and, while at KPMG, was not in any way involved Directors is set out below.
in, or able to influence, any audit activity associated Tenure with BHP Billiton.
As at the end of the year under review, four Directors, Jac Nasser, The Board considers Mr Maxsteds financial acumen and extensive John Schubert, Sir John Buchanan and Carlos Cordeiro, had experience in the corporate restructuring field to be important each served on the Board for more than nine years.
Two of those in the discharge of the Boards responsibilities.
His membership Directors Jac Nasser and John Schubert are standing for of the Board and Chairmanship of the Risk and Audit Committee re-election at the 2015 AGMs, having each undergone a formal are considered by the Board to be appropriate and desirable.
Some of the Directors hold or have previously held positions in Mr Nasser was first appointed to the Board in June 2006 companies with which BHP Billiton has commercial relationships.
as an independent Non-executive Director.
The Board believes Those positions and companies are set out in the Director profiles that his expertise and broad international experience materially in section 3.2.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships enhance the skills and experience profile of the Board.
between the Group and companies in which Directors hold or In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, held positions and has concluded that in all cases the relationships Mr Nassers term of appointment has been subject to do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered a particularly rigorous review, which took into account or independent judgement or their ability to act in the best interests the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Dr Schubert was first elected to the Board of BHP Limited A specific instance is Malcolm Brinded.
The Board is of the view that Dr Schubert continues executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell Plc, a material customer to make a valuable contribution through his role as Chairman of the BHP Billiton Group.
Mr Brinded stepped down from the of the Sustainability Committee and his role on the Nomination Board of Shell on 1 April 2012 and left Shell group employment and Governance Committee, as well as to the work of the Board on 30 April 2012.
Prior to and since the appointment of Mr Brinded more broadly.
Dr Schuberts extensive experience as an executive, as a Director of BHP Billiton, the Board has assessed the relationship particularly in the international oil industry, and subsequently between BHP Billiton and Shell group and remains satisfied that as a public company director across multiple industries, adds Mr Brinded is able to apply objective, unfettered and independent significantly to the skills and expertise of the Board.
judgement and act in the best interests of BHP Billiton.
The Board does not believe that Mr Nassers or Dr Schuberts tenure Transactions during the year that amounted to related party materially interferes with their ability to act in the best interests transactions with Directors or Director-related entities under of the Group.
The Board believes that each of them has retained International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined independence of character and judgement and has not formed in note 33 Related party transactions to the Financial Statements.
associations with management or others that might compromise their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Group.
