3 Corporate Governance Statement continued Key members of management, including the CEO and CFO, are The CEO is required to report regularly to the Board in a spirit of openness and trust on the progress being made by the Group.
present and available to answer questions.
The External Auditor attends the AGMs and is also available to answer questions.
The Board and its committees determine the information required from the CEO and any employee or external party, including Proceedings at shareholder meetings are webcast live from our the External Auditor.
Open dialogue between individual members website.
Copies of the speeches delivered by the Chairman and of the Board and the CEO and other members of the management CEO to the AGMs are released to the stock exchanges and team is encouraged to enable Directors to gain a better posted to our website.
A summary of proceedings and the outcome understanding of the Group.
of voting on the items of business are released to the relevant stock exchanges and posted to our website as soon as they are available Independent advice following completion of the BHP Billiton Limited meeting.
The Board and its committees may seek advice from independent experts whenever it is considered appropriate.
Individual Directors, The Board Governance Document is available online with the consent of the Chairman, may seek independent at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com in vestors shar eholderinfo meetings.
professional advice at the Groups expense on any matter connected with the discharge of their responsibilities.
3.4 Role and responsibilities of the Board Strategic focus and review The Boards role is to represent the shareholders.
It is accountable Within this framework, at the start of the calendar year, the to them for creating and delivering value through the effective Board agrees its strategic focus and priorities for the year governance of the Group.
This role requires a high-performing ahead.
This ensures that the work of the Board is aligned Board, with all Directors contributing to the Boards collective with the corporate purpose and takes into account external decision-making processes.
factors, such as commodity market developments and changes to the operating and regulatory environment.
The Board Governance Document is a statement of the practices and processes the Board has adopted to discharge its responsibilities.
The Board also evaluates its activities on a regular basis taking It includes the processes the Board has implemented to undertake into account: its own tasks and activities: the matters it has reserved for its own matters considered by the Board including time spent consideration and decision-making: the authority it has delegated on those matters : to the CEO, including the limits on the way in which the CEO can legal and governance requirements of the Board and execute that authority: and guidance on the relationship between its committees: the Board and the CEO.
feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders: The Board Governance Document specifies the role of the the outcomes of its evaluation process.
Chairman, the membership of the Board and the role and The Board is satisfied that it has discharged its obligations conduct of Non-executive Directors.
It also provides that the as set out in the Board Governance Document.
Group Company Secretary is accountable to the Board and advises the Chairman, and through the Chairman, the Board Key activities during the year and individual Directors, on all matters of governance process.
The Board approved a range of business decisions during Further information is set out in sections 3.5 to 3.8. the year, as outlined in section 5.1.
Information relating to our AGMs is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus our compan y go v ernance.
3.5 Board membership Allocation of decision-making authority The Board currently has 11 members, each of whom must seek The matters that the Board has specifically reserved for re-election by shareholders annually.
With the appointment its decision are: of Anita Frew to the Board effective 15 September 2015, the Board appointments to the position of CEO and approval of the will have 12 members.
This will reduce to 11 following the retirement appointment of executives reporting directly to the CEO: of Carlos Cordeiro after the forthcoming AGMs.
The Non-executive approval of strategy and annual budgets of the Group: Directors including Anita Frew are considered by the Board determination of capital and non-capital items in accordance to be independent of management and free from any business with the approved delegations of authority: relationship or other circumstance that could materially interfere determination and adoption of documents including the with the exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement.
publication of reports and statements to shareholders For further information on the process for assessing independence, that are required by the Groups constitutional documents, refer to section 3.10. by statute or by other external regulation.
In terms of Non-executive Directors, the Nomination and The Board is free to alter the matters reserved for its decision, Governance Committee retains the services of external recruitment subject to the limitations imposed by the constitutional specialists to continue to assist in the identification of potential documents and the law.
The CEO is delegated authority to take all decisions and The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between actions that further the corporate purpose of creating long-term Executive and Non-executive Directors to promote shareholder shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development interests and govern the Company effectively.
While the Board and marketing of natural resources.
This is subject to the limits includes a smaller number of Executive Directors than is common imposed by the Board on the CEOs decision-making authority for UK-listed companies, its composition is appropriate for the and set out in the Board Governance Document, and the matters DLC structure and is in line with Australian-listed company practice.
the Board has specifically reserved for its decision, including in In addition, the Board has extensive access to members of senior the Groups authorities framework.
The CEO remains accountable management, who frequently attend Board meetings, where they to the Board for the authority that is delegated and for the make presentations and engage in discussions with Directors, performance of the Group, with the expectation that the CEO answer questions, and provide input and perspective on their works in a constructive partnership with the Board.
The Board areas of responsibility.
The Board, led by the Chairman, also holds monitors the decisions and actions of the CEO and the performance discussions in the absence of management at the beginning of the Group to gain assurance that progress is being made and end of each meeting.
towards the corporate purpose within the limits imposed through The Directors of the Group, along with their biographical details, the Groups governance assurance framework.
The Board also are listed in section 3.2.
1. monitors the performance of the Group and assesses its risk profile through its committees.
Reports from the committees are set out in section 3.14.
