1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report The consolidation of commercial accountabilities through a 2.1.
6 Marketing centralised model presents one face to markets and customers Marketing supports the Groups strategy by: across multiple commodities, and allows our assets to focus on securing sales of BHP Billiton product: their key priorities of maximising production safely at a low cost realising the full value of our products: of production.
The model enables the optimisation of BHP Billitons managing the supply chain from resources to markets: sales positions, provides greater value to distribution activities, and supporting strategic decision-making by providing ensures more effective governance and risk management, which improves commercial capability thereby maximising sales prices market insights: for our commodities benefitting the Group as a whole and our minimising operating costs and optimising working capital.
Marketing also utilises a structured, Marketings responsibilities, activities and organisational structure rigorous and consistent framework to identify, plan and execute are designed to give effect to this purpose.
The Marketing organisation is accountable for managing the Co-location of TMUs ensures that market insights can be leveraged Groups revenue line.
Marketing adds value by leveraging the across products.
Based on these shared insights, our marketers intrinsic value of our products, customer relationships and have been able to drive major value accretive initiatives and the Groups broader value proposition relative to other market efficiencies within the Group, as well as across the wider industry.
participants to maximise realised sales prices, minimising the cost For example, BHP Billitons cross-industry engagement and of raw materials inputs, optimising freight and other distribution leadership in the drive towards improved liquidity and transparency costs, minimising overheads, enabling the Businesses to maximise in the markets for many of the Groups products through support upstream resource value, managing market-related risks, and of and investment in, centrally located transparent multilateral ensuring the Groups long-run view of markets is well informed electronic physical transaction platforms, such as globalORE, and insightful.
This allows the Businesses to focus on safety, globalCOAL and the China Beijing International Mining Exchange.
production and cost, while Marketing focuses on optimising Freight and distribution costs account for approximately realised prices and sales outcomes.
80 per cent of the total costs managed by Marketing.
Marketing Marketing is organised into trading and marketing units TMUs has a centralised ocean freight team that manages in-house freight that are specialised in marketing particular commodities, to enable requirements for the Group.
The objective of the freight business tailored strategies for the differences and features of each of the is to create a competitive advantage through the procurement markets for BHP Billitons products.
Even within a specific commodity of safe, sustainable shipping solutions, which both maximise type, the markets can be quite different e. g. the market for copper production throughput and minimise costs through the Groups cathode is quite different to the market for copper concentrates.
Each TMU is responsible for forming strong partnerships with our BHP Billiton is one of the largest global shippers of bulk customers and placing the right product with the right customer commodities.
The Groups key role in the market allows us at the right time.
A solid understanding of both the intrinsic value to drive safety and best practice via our interactions and usage of our products and the technical requirements of each customer of the highest quality freight service providers and ship owners.
is reflected in the fair value of our products.
The scope and scale of our commodity portfolio and extensive fleet of hire chartered vessels allows the Group to arbitrage Marketing also engages in technical collaboration with many and optimise positions to minimise freight costs.
This includes customers to enhance mutual understanding of customer flexibility in diverting tonnages between markets, maximising perceptions and requirements and how BHP Billiton products tonnages for both inbound and outbound journeys, and will better serve such requirements by: parcelling of commodities.
developing a solid understanding of the technical requirements of a customers individual production processes and specific BHP Billitons market insight is enhanced by the Groups proximity product requirement: to customers and the flow of information through the centralised assisting in ensuring customers are able to make optimal use structure.
Marketing analyses the fundamentals of demand and of BHP Billitons products.
supply to inform our long-run views of commodity markets.
We consider various global scenarios in our modelling, and regularly Consistent with our philosophy of locating our major units close monitor signposts in the market to ensure an in-depth to their main activities, the primary hub for our marketing activities understanding of evolving trends.
is Singapore, where we employ approximately 480 people, while our marketing of oil and gas is headquartered in Houston, United Our commodity price forecasts support asset and portfolio States.
The two Marketing hub offices incorporate all the functions level investment decisions, strategic planning and capital required to manage sales and distribution from our Businesses management.
Marketings outlook on the global economy, to our customers.
In addition, we have regional marketers located the resource industry and each of the commodities in our close to our customers in nine cities across the world.
Having portfolio also serve to inform broader organisational priorities, our primary marketing hub in Singapore ensures that we are such as our position on climate change.
close to our major customers with Asian commodity flows, which increasingly dominate world flows.
Sixty-eight per cent of BHP Billitons sales are in Asia.
Singapore not only provides a highly skilled work force, but also provides for a stable and transparent regulatory framework that supports trade and investment.
Furthermore, Singapore is a world leader in logistic capabilities and provides a base for world-class connectivity with an effective transportation network.
Singapores workforce also gives us access to staff that speak the languages of our key customers in Asia.
The high living standards in Singapore attract the highly qualified mobile people we need to manage our continuously evolving business.
