1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Our Non-executive Directors are paid in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the ASX Corporate Governance Councils Principles and Recommendations 3rd Edition.
9 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration for Non-executive Directors, the link to strategy, how each component operates, and how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Fees The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
8% increase per annum annualised, or inflation if higher in the location in which duties are Competitive base fees are paid Non-executive Directors are paid a base fee and relevant primarily performed, on a per fee basis.
in order to attract and retain committee membership fees.
high-quality individuals, and to Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director provide appropriate remuneration are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
All fee levels are reviewed annually and any changes are Committee fees are provided effective from 1 July.
to recognise the additional Fees are set at a competitive level with advice on benchmark responsibilities, time and fees in equivalent size companies provided by external advisers.
Fee levels reflect the size and complexity of the Group, the multi-jurisdictional environment arising from the Dual Listed Company structure, the multiple stock exchange listings and the extent of the geographic regions in which the Group operates.
The economic environment and the financial performance of the Group are taken into account.
Consideration is also given to salary reviews across the rest of the Group.
13 for current fee levels provided to Non-executive Directors Pension Pension contributions provided on fees only where required by law.
Benefits Travel allowances Non-executive Directors receive travel allowances on 8% increase per annum annualised, or inflation a per-trip basis reflecting the considerable travel burden if higher in the location in which duties are Competitive benefits are paid imposed on members of the Board as a consequence of primarily performed, on a per-trip basis.
in order to attract and retain the Dual Listed Company structure and the resulting Board high-quality individuals and meetings in Australia and the UK, along with site visits at adequately compensate for our multiple geographic locations.
Other benefits As a consequence of the Dual Listed Company structure, Up to a limit not exceeding 20% of fees.
Non-executive Directors are required to prepare personal tax Competitive benefits are paid returns in both Australia and the UK, regardless of whether they in order to attract and retain reside in one or neither of those countries.
They are accordingly high-quality individuals, and to reimbursed for the costs of personal tax return preparation in provide appropriate remuneration whichever of the UK and or Australia is not their place of residence for the role undertaken.
including payment of the tax cost associated with the provision of the benefit.
Non-executive Directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse partner to business meetings.
The costs associated with spouse partner attendance at one business meeting per annum are met by BHP Billiton and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable benefits for the Non-executive Director.
In such cases BHP Billiton reimburses the Non-executive Director for this tax cost.
STI and LTI Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any STI or LTI arrangements.
Payments on early termination There are no provisions in any of the Non-executive Directors appointment arrangements for compensation payable on early termination of their directorship.
1 UK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised, it should not be interpreted that it is the Companys current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The ongoing remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited Non-executive Director will reflect the remuneration policy in place for other Non-executive Directors, as above.
The components will therefore comprise fees, pension contributions where required by law and benefits as set out in the table above.
No variable remuneration STI and LTI will be provided to newly recruited Non-executive Directors.
Letters of appointment and policy on loss of office The standard letter of appointment for Non-executive Directors is available on our website.
The Board has adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Non-executive Directors must seek re-election by shareholders annually, if they wish to remain on the Board.
As such no Non-executive Directors seeking re-election have an unexpired term in their letter of appointment.
A Non-executive Director may resign on reasonable notice.
No payments are made to Non-executive Directors on loss of office.
A legacy arrangement provides accrued retirement benefits under the now closed Retirement Plan of BHP Billiton Limited, and this will continue to be honoured.
30 for retirement disclosures for the Non-executive Directors Considerations when setting Non-executive Director remuneration When Non-executive Director remuneration is determined, the same considerations in respect of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group and shareholder views, as described in relation to setting remuneration for the CEO, are taken into account.
5 for consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Section 4.3.
6 for consideration of shareholder views BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 173
