1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Rail Line 2.1.
3 Iron Ore Business Pilbara Our Iron Ore Business, headquartered in Perth, Australia, is Region one of the leading iron ore producers in the world.
We sell lump Perth and fines products produced in Australia and produce pellets Port Hedland from our operations in Brazil.
Nelson Point Finucane Island Our two assets consist of the following: South Hedland Goldsworthy Karratha Western Australia Iron Ore Yarrie Operations at Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO involve Marble Bar Great an integrated system of mines and more than 1,000 kilometres Northern Highway of rail infrastructure and port facilities in the Pilbara region Port Hedland Newman Rail Line of northern Western Australia, with our headquarters located Chichester in Perth.
Our focus is to safely maximise output through operating Deviation our mines and utilising available infrastructure at our disposal.
Karijini Since 2001, we have expanded our WAIO operations in response National Yandi Park to increasing demand for iron ore, particularly from China.
We have Area C Orebody completed eight expansion projects during this period to increase 24 25 Orebody 18 our mine, rail and port capacity.
This includes the recent completion Jimblebar Note: Location of markers Mt Whaleback of a number of expansion projects and ongoing debottlenecking Newman Wheelarra is indicative only Orebody 29 30 35 of the supply chain to underpin potential further growth in capacity to 290 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
Our share of FY2015 production Existing Operations was 218.0 Mt of ore, which is expected to increase in FY2016 to Port Hedland Newman Rail Line Goldsworthy Rail Line 233 Mtpa.
The reserve lives for our WAIO operations are discussed in section 2.3.
Our Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing Our port facilities are located on both sides of the harbour us to plan our development around a series of integrated at Port Hedland.
These facilities consist of Nelson Point, mining hubs joined to the orebodies by conveyors or spur lines.
owned by the Mt Newman JV, and Finucane Island, owned This approach enables us to maximise the value of installed by the Mt Goldsworthy JV.
The port facilities include five ore infrastructure by using the same processing plant and rail car dumpers, three lump rescreening plants, eight stackers, infrastructure for a number of orebodies.
five reclaimers, stock and blending yards, and eight ship loaders.
Lump and fines products are sold to steel mills in China, South Vessels depart the harbour via a dredged channel that is Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Switzerland and approximately 45 kilometres long and has a width of 300 metres.
Australia under long-term and short-term contracts.
Contract Along with the other joint venture partners, we have entered prices are generally linked to market indices.
into marketing agreements in the form of joint ventures with some In order to establish a consistent, long-term, high-quality customers.
These customer joint ventures, JW4, Wheelarra and lump ore product with a stable grade, we produce a blended POSMAC, involve subleases of part of WAIOs existing mineral leases.
The product is a blend of lump ores produced The ore is sold to the existing joint ventures with contractual terms from the Newman, Area C and Jimblebar mining areas, known applying to the customers share.
As a consequence, we are entitled as Newman Blend lump.
During FY2015, 23 per cent to 85 per cent of production from these subleases and the customer of our sales were lump and 77 per cent were fines.
joint ventures are not joint operations for accounting purposes.
WAIO operations WAIO Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are reported Our WAIO operations consist of four main joint ventures: for the Pilbara as a whole by ore type, to reflect our production Mt Newman, Yandi, Mt Goldsworthy and Jimblebar.
Our interest of the Newman Blend lump product and fines, as well as our single in the joint ventures is 85 per cent, with Mitsui and ITOCHU logistics chain and associated management system.
The reserve owning the remaining 15 per cent.
The joint ventures are lives of our Western Australian mines are discussed in section 2.3.
Samarco The Mt Newman Joint Venture JV consists of a number of orebodies We are a 5050 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco joined by conveyors and spur lines to a mining hub at Mt Whaleback.
Samarco currently comprises a mine and three Ore is crushed, beneficiated where necessary and blended concentrators located in the state of Minas Gerais, and four pellet to create lump and fine products.
The ore is then transported to port plants and a port, located in Anchieta in the state of Espirito Santo.
using Mt Newman JV-owned rail facilities.
The Yandi JV comprises Three 400-kilometre pipelines connect the mine site to the the Yandi mine where ore is crushed and screened and then pelletising facilities.
transported by rail on the Newman main line.
The Mt Goldsworthy Samarcos main product is iron ore pellets.
Extraction and JV consists of the Area C mine in the central Pilbara and the Yarrie beneficiation of iron ore are conducted at the Germano facilities mine in northern Pilbara.
Ore is crushed and screened at Area C in the municipalities of Mariana and Ouro Preto.
Conveyor and transported by rail to Port Hedland.
Production at the Yarrie systems are used to extract the ore and convey it from the mines.
mine in the northern Pilbara has been suspended since 25 February Ore beneficiation then occurs in concentrators, where crushing, 2014, following improved productivity at our other mining milling, desliming and flotation processes produce iron concentrate.
The Jimblebar operation comprises the Jimblebar mine, The concentrate leaves the concentrators as slurry and is pumped located 40 kilometres east of Newman.
Jimblebar delivered first through the slurry pipelines from the Germano facilities to the production in the September 2013 quarter and produced 17 Mt pellet plants in Ubu, Anchieta, where the slurry is processed during FY2015.
The Jimblebar mining hub ramped-up to a production into pellets.
The iron ore pellets are then heat treated.
The pellet rate exceeding 45 Mtpa during FY2015.
All ore is transported output is stored in a stockpile yard before being shipped out by rail on the Mt Newman JV and Mt Goldsworthy JV rail lines of the Samarco-owned Port of Ubu in Anchieta.
A typical train configuration consists of two locomotives per 124 ore cars, called a rake, with two rakes per Pellets are independently marketed by Samarco and sold train.
Each individual ore car carries approximately 132 tonnes to steelmakers in 19 countries, with prices generally linked of iron ore. Our rail operations are controlled from Perth via to market indices.
our integrated remote operations centre, which co-locates rail In FY2015, our share of production was 14.5 Mt of pellets.
control, port production control, mine dispatch control and The reserve life for Samarco is discussed in section 2.3.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 83 2 Business overview continued Information on Iron Ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production refer to section 2.2.
2 and reserve tables refer to section 2.3.
Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Iron ore Mt Newman Joint Venture Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton: Mining lease Production Open-cut From May 2014 Newman Hub: region, 85% Mt Whaleback under the began at Yarnima primary and Iron ore Bedded ore types Western Orebodies Iron Ore Mt Whaleback power station secondary crushing transported Mitsui classified as per Australia 18, 23, 24, 25, Mt Newman orebody started and screening plants by Mt Newman ITOCHU Iron host Archaean 29, 30 and 35 Agreement Act in 1969 supplying nominal capacity Mt Whaleback JV-owned 10% or Proterozoic iron 1964 expires in approximately 63 Mtpa : heavy Orebodies rail to Port Operatorship Production formation, which ITOCHU 2030 with right two thirds of media beneficiation 18, 23, 24, 25, Hedland of Orebody 18 from are Brockman Minerals to successive power, with a plant, stockyard 29, 30 and 35 427 km transitioned Orebodies 18, and Marra Mamba and Energy renewals supplementary blending facility, to BHP Billiton 23, 24, 25, 29, of Australia of 21 years contract with single cell rotary in July 2014 30 and 35 5% Alinta Dewap car dumper, complements Newman train-loading facility production power station from Mt Orebody 25: primary for the Whaleback and secondary remaining crushing and First ore from amount screening plant Newman Hub nominal capacity as part of 13 Mtpa RGP4 construction delivered in 2009 Yandi Joint Venture Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining lease Development Open-cut From May 2014 Three processing region, 85% under the began in 1991 Yarnima plants, primary Iron ore Channel Iron Western Iron Ore power station crusher and transported Mitsui Iron Ore First shipment Deposits are Australia Marillana Creek started overland conveyor by Mt Newman Corporation in 1992 Cainozoic fluvial Agreement Act supplying nominal capacity JV-owned rail 7% sediments Capacity 1991 expires in approximately 80 Mtpa to Port ITOCHU expanded 2033 with one two thirds of Hedland Ore delivered Minerals between renewal right power, with a 316 km to two train-loading and Energy 1994 and 2013 to a further supplementary facilities Yandi JVs of Australia 21 years contract with railway spur 8% Alinta Dewap links Yandi Newman mine to power station Newman main line JW4 Joint Venture Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Sublease over Operations Open-cut From May 2014 JW4 processes ore region, 68% part of the began in Yarnima through Yandi Iron ore Channel Iron Western mining lease April 2006 power station on-sold to ITOCHU Deposits are Australia under the started Yandi JV, then Minerals Ore currently Cainozoic fluvial Iron Ore supplying transported and Energy being sediments Marillana Creek approximately via rail to of Australia produced Agreement Act two thirds of Finucane 6.4% is sold to 1991 expires in power, with a Island and Yandi JV and Mitsui Iron Ore 2033 with one supplementary Nelson Point blended with Corporation renewal right contract with shipping Yandi ore 5.6% for a further Alinta Dewap facilities, JFE Steel 21 years Newman Port Hedland Australia power station 20% Sublease agreement over JW4 deposit Jimblebar operation Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining lease Production Open-cut From May 2014 Two primary and region, 85% under the at Jimblebar Yarnima secondary crushers, Bedded ore types Western Iron Ore began in power station ore handling plant, ITOCHU classified as per Australia McCameys March 1989 started stockyards and Minerals host Archaean or Monster supplying supporting mining and Energy From 2004, Proterozoic banded Agreement approximately hub infrastructure of Australia production was iron formation, Authorisation two thirds of nominal capacity 8% transferred which are Brockman Act 1972 expires power, with a 55 Mtpa to Wheelarra and Marra Mamba Mitsui Iron Ore in 2030 with supplementary as part of the Corporation rights to contract with Wheelarra 7% successive Alinta Dewap sublease renewals Newman agreement of 21 years power station First ore from newly commissioned Jimblebar mine was delivered in September 2013 84 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Iron ore continued Wheelarra Joint Venture Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Sublease Wheelarra JV Open-cut From May 2014 Wheelarra processes region, 51% agreement over produces Yarnima ore through the Iron ore is Bedded ore types Western the Wheelarra iron ore from power station Jimblebar hub transported ITOCHU Minerals classified as per Australia deposit of Wheelarra started via conveyor and Energy host Archaean or Jimblebar lease deposit of supplying to Jimblebar of Australia Proterozoic banded with ITOCHU Jimblebar approximately mine 6 km 4.8% iron formation, Minerals and lease two thirds of which is Brockman Mitsui Iron Ore Energy of power, with a Ore produced Corporation Australia, Mitsui supplementary is processed 4.2% Iron Ore and contract with and blended Maanshan Iron four separate Alinta Dewap with Jimblebar & Steel Australia subsidiaries Newman ore at 10% of Chinese power station Jimblebar Shagang steelmakers mine and Australia This then sold to 10% arrangement, Mt Newman JV Hebei Iron entitles us & Steel Australia to 85% of 10% production from Wugang the Wheelarra Australia sublease 10% consistent with BHP Billiton Sublease ownership in agreement over Mt Newman JV Wheelarra deposit Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton 4 mineral Operations Area C, Yarrie From May 2014 Ore processing region, 85% leases under commenced and Nimingarra Yarnima plant, primary Yarrie and Western the Iron Ore at Mt all open-cut power station crusher and Nimingarra Mitsui Iron Ore Australia Mt Goldsworthy Goldsworthy started overland conveyor iron ore Corporation Bedded ore types Agreement Act in 1966 and supplying nominal capacity transported 7% classified as per Area C 1964 and the at Shay Gap approximately 60 Mtpa Yarrie by Mt host Archaean or ITOCHU Iron Ore in 1973 two thirds of Nimingarra Goldsworthy Proterozoic iron Minerals Goldsworthy power, with a JV-owned Original formation, which and Energy Nimingarra supplementary rail to Port Goldsworthy are Brockman, of Australia Agreement Act contract with Hedland mine closed Marra Mamba 8% 1972, expire Alinta Dewap 218 km in 1982 and Nimingarra between 2014 Newman Area C iron ore Associated and 2028, power station transported by Shay Gap with rights to Mt Newman mine closed successive JV-owned in 1993 renewals rail to Port Mining at of 21 years Hedland Nimingarra A number of 360 km mine ceased smaller mining Mt in 2007, then leases granted Goldsworthy continued under the JV railway spur from adjacent Mining Act 1978 links Area C Yarrie area expire in 2026 mine to Yandi Opened railway spur Area C mine in 2003 Yarrie mine suspended operations in February 2014 POSMAC Joint Venture Pilbara Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Sublease over Operations Open-cut From May 2014 POSMAC Region, 65% part of mineral commenced Yarnima processes through Iron ore Bedded ore types Western lease held by in October power station Mt Goldsworthy on-sold to Mt ITOCHU classified as per Australia Mt Goldsworthy 2003 started Goldsworthy Minerals host Archaean JV under the supplying JV, it is then and Energy Iron ore or Proterozoic iron Iron Ore approximately transported of Australia currently formation, which Mt Goldsworthy two thirds of via Mt 8% being is Marra Mamba Agreement Act power, with a Goldsworthy produced Mitsui Iron Ore 1964 with rights supplementary JV-owned is sold to Mt Corporation to successive contract with rail and Goldsworthy 7% renewals Alinta Dewap Mt Newman JV and POSCO of 21 years Newman JV-owned blended with 20% power station rail to Port Area C ore Sublease Hedland agreement over POSMAC deposit BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 85 2 Business overview continued Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Mine & Means Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Iron ore continued Samarco Southeast Public road BHP Billiton Samarco Mining Production Open-cut Samarco holds Facilities with Brazil 50% of Samarco concessions began at interests in capacity to process Conveyor Itabirites Minerao SA granted by Germano 2 hydroelectric and pump 32 Mtpa belts transport metamorphic Brazilian mine in 1977 power plants ore concentrate and iron ore to Vale SA quartz-hematite Government as and at Alegria which supply produce and ship beneficiation 50% rock and friable long as Alegria complex 14.5% of its 30.5 Mtpa pellets plant hematite ores complex mined in 1992 electricity 100% basis Three slurry according to Second pellet Power supply pipelines agreed plan plant built contract with transport in 1997 Cemig concentrate Gerao e to pellet Third pellet Transmisso plants on plant, second expires coast concentrator in 2022 and second Iron pellets pipeline built exported via in 2008 port facilities Fourth pellet plant, third concentrator and third pipeline built in 2014 Development projects Exploration activities Western Australia Iron Ore Western Australia WAIO has been executing a number of expansion projects WAIO has a substantial existing reserve base supported by in recent years.
These projects, approved in March 2011 considerable additional mineralisation, all within a 250-kilometre for a total of US$7.4 billion US$6.6 billion BHP Billiton share radius of our existing infrastructure.
This concentration of orebodies plus pre-commitment funding of US$2.3 billion US$2.1 billion also gives WAIO the flexibility to add growth tonnes to existing BHP Billiton share, were designed to deliver an integrated hub infrastructure and link brownfield developments to our existing operation with a minimum capacity of 220 Mtpa mainline rail and port facilities.
The total area covered by exploration 100 per cent basis.
and mining tenure amounts to 6,500 square kilometres.
This excludes crown leases, and general purpose and miscellaneous These projects, each of which is substantially complete, included: licences, which are used for infrastructure space and access.
the Jimblebar Mine Expansion project to develop the Jimblebar The majority of deposits are located on five main lease areas held mine and rail links, and procure mining equipment and rolling by BHP Billiton and our joint venture partners, as appropriate.
Iron stock in order to deliver a capacity of 35 Mtpa.
Initial production ore mineralised materials fall mainly within the Hamersley Ranges was achieved in the September 2013 quarter.
The project costs of the Pilbara district, with a minor component of the inventory as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$3.5 billion BHP Billiton lying within the Pilbara Craton of northwest Western Australia.
Final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised budget of US$3.6 billion: In FY2015, exploration activity was completed over multiple further development of Port Hedland, including two additional project areas and deposits.
The total drilling carried out amounts berths and ship loaders, a car dumper, connecting conveyor route, to approximately 486.7 kilometres, composed of reverse circulation and associated rail works and rolling stock.
Initial production drilling of 445.5 kilometres, diamond drilling of 25.1 kilometres and was achieved in the December 2012 quarter.
The project costs hydrology drilling of 16.2 kilometres, consisting of approximately as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$1.8 billion BHP Billiton share.
Total exploration expenditure in FY2015 Final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised amounted to US$118 million.
budget of US$1.9 billion: Guinea Iron Ore port blending facilities and rail yards to enable ore blending.
BHP Billiton has a 41.3 per cent interest in a joint venture that Initial production was achieved in the December 2013 quarter.
holds the Nimba Mining Concession and four iron ore prospecting The project costs as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$0.9 billion permits in southeast Guinea.
Final costs are expected to be delivered below the revised budget of US$1.0 billion.
On 29 July 2014, BHP Billiton and ArcelorMittal signed an agreement for the acquisition by ArcelorMittal of BHP Billitons Our plan to continue to grow production following the recent 43.5 per cent stake in Euronimba Limited, which holds an effective completion of a number of expansion projects includes ongoing 95 per cent interest in the Mount Nimba iron ore project in Guinea.
debottlenecking of the supply chain to underpin potential further growth in capacity to 290 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
In May 2015, ArcelorMittal terminated the transaction following failure to meet the conditions to closing by the agreed deadline.
Western Australia Iron Ore Orebody 24 mine We will continue to assess our options for the Mount Nimba In FY2014, WAIO completed execution of its development of the iron ore project.
Orebody 24 mine, located approximately 10 kilometres northeast of Newman.
Orebody 24 is a sustaining mine to maintain iron ore Liberia Iron Ore production output from the Mt Newman JV operations.
The project BHP Billiton has a 100 per cent interest in a Mineral Development was approved in November 2011 and included the construction Agreement with the Government of Liberia.
This enables the further of an ore crushing plant, train loadout facility, rail spur and other exploration and development of our Liberian iron ore mineral leases.
The project costs as at 30 June 2015 amounted to US$0.6 billion BHP Billiton share.
Final costs are On 25 August 2014, BHP Billiton and Cavalla Resources signed a sale and purchase agreement for the acquisition by Cavalla Resources expected to be delivered below the revised budget of US$0.7 billion.
of BHP Billitons 100 per cent interest in its Liberia iron ore project.
Completion of the transaction remains subject to the receipt of regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions.
