1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.15 Additional information 1.15.1 External factors and trends The following section describes some of the external factors and US$M trends that have had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic US$1 bbl on oil price 54 and changing environment and with information that is rarely US10 MMBtu on US gas price 27 complete and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed US1 lb on copper price 24 in this section under our portfolio risk management approach, which relies on the effects of diversification, rather than individual US$1 t on iron ore price 144 risk management programs.
Details of our risk factors can be US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 23 found in section 1.7.
Details of our financial risk management strategies and financial instruments outstanding US$1 t on energy coal price 11 at 30 June 2015 can be found in section 1.7.
3 of this Annual US1 lb on nickel price 2 Report and in note 23 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements.
Commodity markets were influenced by modest growth in global Management monitors particular trends arising from external economic activity in FY2015.
Solid momentum in the US economy, factors with a view to managing the potential impact on our future supported by improved growth in the Eurozone and Japan, saw financial condition and results of operations.
The following external developed economies contribute an improved share of activity factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and relative to emerging markets.
A number of emerging economies, areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that including China, saw growth slow while Russia and Brazil is incomplete or uncertain.
In the case of most steelmaking raw materials and energy commodities, supply growth was greater Information in this section has been presented on a Continuing than demand growth resulting in lower prices.
The price for operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that crude oil dropped significantly, while the Henry Hub gas price were demerged with South32, unless otherwise noted.
Details declined on higher supply and increased inventory levels relative of the contribution of the South32 assets to the Groups results to the previous year.
The Asian LNG price dropped on greater are disclosed in note 29 Discontinued operations to the supply and lower oil prices.
The copper price was also lower Financial Statements.
as supply disruptions were offset by weaker than expected Commodity prices consumption.
Although aluminium demand grew, supply exceeded The prices we obtain for our products represent a key driver consumption due to increasing production from China.
In the of our business, and fluctuations in these commodity prices manganese market, the supply side response to weak demand affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
growth was slower than expected resulting in a decrease in prices.
The estimated impact on FY2015 profit after taxation of changes of commodity prices is set out below.
The following tables show the prices for our most significant commodities for the years ended 30 June 2015, 2014 and 2013, on both a Continuing and Discontinued operations basis.
These prices represent selected quoted prices from the relevant sources as indicated, and will differ from the realised prices on the sale of the Groups production due to differences in quotation periods, quality of products, delivery terms and the range of quoted prices that are used for contracting sales in different markets.
2 Platts Liquefied Natural Gas Delivery Ex-Ship DES Japan Korea Marker typically applies to Asian LNG spot sales.
3 Platts Dated Brent is a benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
4 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Ethane typically applies to ethane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
5 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Propane typically applies to propane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
6 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Normal Butane typically applies to butane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
7 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost and Freight CFR China used for fines.
8 Platts Low-Vol hard coking coal Index FOB Australia representative of high-quality hard coking coals.
9 GlobalCOAL FOB Newcastle 6,000kcal kg NCV typically applies to coal sales in the Asia Pacific market.
