1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 5.7 Indemnities and insurance 5.9 Corporate governance Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 The UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, each Director, Secretary corporate governance statement set out in the Directors Report.
or Executive Officer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton has an existing practice of issuing a separate corporate respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct governance statement as part of its Annual Report.
The information of the business of the Company or the discharge of the duties of required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK the Director, Secretary and Executive Officer.
The Directors named Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
6 is located in section 3.2 of this Annual Report, the Executive Officers and the in section 3, with the exception of the information referred to Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc in LR 9.8.
6, which is located in sections have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly 5.2, 5.3, 5.17 and 5.20 of this Annual Report.
held one of those positions.
In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and 5.10 Dividends BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access A final dividend of 62 US cents per share will be paid on and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective 29 September 2015, resulting in total dividends in respect Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party of FY2015 of 124 US cents per share.
Details of the dividends paid indemnity provisions for the purposes of the UK Companies Act are set out in sections 1.6.
3 and note 19 Dividends to the Financial 2006 and each of these qualifying third party indemnities was Statements and details of the dividend policy are set out in sections in force as at the date of this Directors Report.
3 and 9.7 of this Annual Report.
We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed as a Director of a subsidiary, who, while acting in good faith, 5.11 Auditors incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of BHP Billiton In addition, as part of the arrangements to effect the demerger Plc will be proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meetings in of South32, we have agreed to indemnify certain former Directors, accordance with section 489 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Secretaries and Executive Officers of BHP Billiton, who have A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to transitioned to South32, from certain claims and liabilities the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the incurred in their capacity as Directors or Officers of South32.
independence requirements of the Australian Corporations From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, Act 2001 and the professional code of conduct for External to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services Auditors is set out in section 7.5 of this Annual Report.
in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services During FY2015, Lindsay Maxsted was the only officer of BHP Billiton by the External Auditor.
The terms of engagement in the UK include who previously held the role of director or partner of the Groups that we must compensate and reimburse KPMG LLP, and protect External Auditor at a time when the Groups External Auditor KPMG LLP against any loss, damage, expense, or liability incurred conducted an audit of the Group.
His prior relationship with KPMG by KPMG LLP in respect of third party claims arising from a breach is outlined in section 3.10 of this Annual Report.
Lindsay Maxsted by the Group of any obligation under the engagement terms.
was not part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980 and, while We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay to at KPMG, was not in any way involved in, or able to influence, Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees including any audit activity associated with BHP Billiton.
former Officers pursuant to Rule 146 of the Constitution of Each person who held the office of Director at the date BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 of the Articles of Association the Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise agree to pay by way of the following statements: indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures Directors, Company so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Secretaries and some employees including former Officers information of which the Groups External Auditor is unaware: against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have in carrying out their duties.
taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance audit information and to establish that the Groups External of US$2,068,352 net during FY2015.
Auditor is aware of that information.
No indemnity in favour of a current or former officer of BHP Billiton This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour of the External Auditor, UK Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance has been called on during FY2015.
with and subject to these provisions.
5.8 Employee policies 5.12 Non-audit services Our people are fundamental to our success.
At BHP Billiton, Details of the non-audit services undertaken by our External we are committed to shaping a culture where our employees Auditor, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, are set are provided with opportunities to develop, are valued and are out in note 38 Auditors remuneration to the Financial Statements.
encouraged to contribute towards making work safer, simpler All non-audit services were approved in accordance with the and more productive.
We strongly believe that having employees process set out in the Policy on Provision of Audit and Other who are engaged and connected to our organisation, reinforces Services by the External Auditor, and no non-audit services were our shared purpose aligned to Our BHP Billiton Charter and will carried out that were specifically excluded by the Policy on result in a more harmonious workplace.
Provision of Audit and Other Services by the External Auditor.
Based on advice provided by the Risk and Audit Committee, the Further information in relation to employee engagement and employee policies, including communications and disabilities, Directors have formed the view that the provision of non-audit can be found in section 1.13.2. services is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors, and that the nature of non-audit services means that auditor independence was not compromised.
Further information about our policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is set out in section 3.14.1 of this Annual Report.
