1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.15 Additional information 1.15.1 External factors and trends The following section describes some of the external factors and US$M trends that have had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic US$1 bbl on oil price 54 and changing environment and with information that is rarely US10 MMBtu on US gas price 27 complete and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed US1 lb on copper price 24 in this section under our portfolio risk management approach, which relies on the effects of diversification, rather than individual US$1 t on iron ore price 144 risk management programs.
Details of our risk factors can be US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 23 found in section 1.7.
Details of our financial risk management strategies and financial instruments outstanding US$1 t on energy coal price 11 at 30 June 2015 can be found in section 1.7.
3 of this Annual US1 lb on nickel price 2 Report and in note 23 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements.
Commodity markets were influenced by modest growth in global Management monitors particular trends arising from external economic activity in FY2015.
Solid momentum in the US economy, factors with a view to managing the potential impact on our future supported by improved growth in the Eurozone and Japan, saw financial condition and results of operations.
The following external developed economies contribute an improved share of activity factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and relative to emerging markets.
A number of emerging economies, areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that including China, saw growth slow while Russia and Brazil is incomplete or uncertain.
In the case of most steelmaking raw materials and energy commodities, supply growth was greater Information in this section has been presented on a Continuing than demand growth resulting in lower prices.
The price for operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that crude oil dropped significantly, while the Henry Hub gas price were demerged with South32, unless otherwise noted.
Details declined on higher supply and increased inventory levels relative of the contribution of the South32 assets to the Groups results to the previous year.
The Asian LNG price dropped on greater are disclosed in note 29 Discontinued operations to the supply and lower oil prices.
The copper price was also lower Financial Statements.
as supply disruptions were offset by weaker than expected Commodity prices consumption.
Although aluminium demand grew, supply exceeded The prices we obtain for our products represent a key driver consumption due to increasing production from China.
In the of our business, and fluctuations in these commodity prices manganese market, the supply side response to weak demand affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
growth was slower than expected resulting in a decrease in prices.
The estimated impact on FY2015 profit after taxation of changes of commodity prices is set out below.
The following tables show the prices for our most significant commodities for the years ended 30 June 2015, 2014 and 2013, on both a Continuing and Discontinued operations basis.
These prices represent selected quoted prices from the relevant sources as indicated, and will differ from the realised prices on the sale of the Groups production due to differences in quotation periods, quality of products, delivery terms and the range of quoted prices that are used for contracting sales in different markets.
2 Platts Liquefied Natural Gas Delivery Ex-Ship DES Japan Korea Marker typically applies to Asian LNG spot sales.
3 Platts Dated Brent is a benchmark price assessment of the spot market value of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
4 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Ethane typically applies to ethane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
5 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Propane typically applies to propane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
6 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Normal Butane typically applies to butane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
7 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost and Freight CFR China used for fines.
8 Platts Low-Vol hard coking coal Index FOB Australia representative of high-quality hard coking coals.
9 GlobalCOAL FOB Newcastle 6,000kcal kg NCV typically applies to coal sales in the Asia Pacific market.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 59 1 Strategic Report continued 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued The following summarises the average and closing pricing Copper: The London Metal Exchange LME copper cash trends of our most significant commodities for FY2015.
settlement price decreased by nine per cent in FY2015.
The copper price trended downwards during the first seven months amid Natural gas Henry Hub: The Platts US Henry Hub natural improved supply, weaker than anticipated consumption and the gas price decreased by 22 per cent during FY2015.
The decrease strengthening of the US dollar.
The price decreased to a five-year was a result of increased production growth, partially offset by low in mid-January on short-selling by Chinese-backed hedge consumption growth in the power sector.
The price increased in February, impacted by Chilean ended the year at 2,577 Billion cubic feet Bcf, one per cent above supply disruption due to flooding, while softening of Chinese the five-year average and 35 per cent higher year-on-year.
The demand dampened prices since May.
Since 30 June 2015, year-end price was 15 per cent below the average for the year.
the copper price decreased 11 per cent on 28 August 2015.
Since 30 June 2015, the US Henry Hub natural gas price decreased five per cent on 31 August 2015.
Iron ore: The Platts 62 per cent iron ore CFR China decreased 42 per cent over FY2015 as low-cost seaborne iron ore supply Natural gas Asian Spot LNG: The Asian liquefied natural gas spot outpaced demand growth.
Productivity and cost compression price decreased by 41 per cent during FY2015.
The decrease was on the supply side also impacted price as mining companies driven by weaker north Asian end-user demand and ample global lowered their cost structures in response to the changed supply availability.
In turn, this allowed for more spot purchases environment.
The year-end price was 17 per cent below the on lower prices and provided some support for Asian buyers average price for the year.
Since 30 June 2015, the iron ore to maintain higher inventory levels.
Meanwhile, the drop in CFR price decreased six per cent on 31 August 2015. crude oil prices has had a lagged negative impact on oil-linked LNG contracts in the second half of FY2015.
The year-end price Metallurgical coal: The Platts Low-Vol Hard Coking Coal Index was 25 per cent below the average for the year.
decreased by 20 per cent during FY2015.
While demand from traditional markets recovered steadily, the price decrease Crude oil: The Platts Dated Brent crude price decreased by was mainly driven by continuing supply growth and weak Chinese 32 per cent during FY2015 following increases in global crude demand.
The year-end price was 15 per cent below the average supply, particularly from US production, growing faster than price for the year.
Since 30 June 2015, the Hard Coking Coal demand.
Libyan supply outages returned to market in the latter Index decreased eight per cent on 31 August 2015. half of CY2014, and OPEC decided to maintain its production Energy coal: The globalCOAL Newcastle FOB price decreased levels.
The year-end price was 17 per cent below the average for the year.
Since 30 June 2015, the Dated Brent crude price by 18 per cent during FY2015.
The decrease was driven by weak Chinese seaborne demand, despite healthy growth from India, decreased 21 per cent on 28 August 2015. and sustained supply from Australia and Indonesia supported NGL: A barrel of natural gas liquids consists mainly of ethane by depreciating currencies.
Since 30 June 2015, the Newcastle and liquefied petroleum gas propane and butane.
The Mont energy coal price decreased seven per cent on 31 August 2015.
Belvieu ethane and propane price decreased by 28 per cent and 39 per cent, respectively, during FY2015 following increases in Nickel: The LME cash settlement nickel price increased two per cent ethane and propane supply.
Mont Belvieu butane prices decreased during FY2015 though the price decreased over the course of by 35 per cent during FY2015 following a decrease in the West the financial year driven by weak demand and adequate supply, Texas Intermediate oil price.
The year-end propane and butane as evidenced by rising LME stocks.
The year-end price was prices were 45 per cent and 35 per cent below the average for 25 per cent below the average price for the year.
Since 30 June the year, respectively.
Since 30 June 2015, the Mont Belvieu ethane 2015, the nickel price decreased 14 per cent on 28 August 2015. price decreased seven per cent and the Mont Belvieu propane price increased nine per cent 31 August 2015.
Discontinued operations 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 1 Year ended 30 June Closing Closing Closing Average Average Average Aluminium LME cash US$ t 1,647 1,851 1,731 1,880 1,764 1,938 2 Alumina US$ t 323 312 318 339 321 327 3 Manganese Alloys US$ t 821 999 1,038 879 1,020 1,106 4 Manganese Ores US$ dmtu 2.98 4.20 5.54 3.89 4.95 5.29 1 Post-demerger BHP Billitons results will not be impacted by fluctuations in the prices of commodities aluminium, alumina, manganese alloys and ores that no longer form part of post-demerger operations.
2 Platts PAX Free on Board FOB Australia market price assessment of calcined metallurgical smelter grade alumina.
3 Bulk FerroAlloy high carbon ferromanganese HCFeMn Western Europe DDP.
4 Metal Bulletin manganese ore 44 per cent Mn Cost Insurance Freight CIF.
60 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued The FY2015 pricing trends for the commodities that comprise The US economy continued to improve despite weakness in the our Discontinued operations were as follows: March 2015 quarter caused by severe weather in the northeast and a stronger US dollar.
Ongoing strength in the labour market, Aluminium: The LME cash settlement price increased by rising disposable incomes, higher equity markets and improved seven per cent during FY2015.
However, price premiums in Japan, housing prices supported consumer demand.
After a period in Europe and the United States ended lower, reflecting the market which businesses failed to respond to improved economic surplus on increasing production from China.
The year-end price conditions and higher levels of profitability, corporate investment was 12 per cent below the average for the year.
has begun to show signs of recovery.
The Federal Reserve is Alumina: The FOB Australia price increased six per cent during expected to begin increasing interest rates in the first half of FY2016.
FY2015, supported by a lack of bauxite availability as a result The European Central Bank began a program of quantitative easing of the Indonesian ore ban, and growing demand from China.
in March 2015, which appears to be driving a modest pick-up Manganese: The Metal Bulletin manganese ore China CIF price in economic growth.
Activity has improved across the Eurozone, decreased 21 per cent during FY2015.
Demand growth slowed with the exception of Greece, reflecting a broad-based lift in and the market was well supplied amid high Chinese inventories.
domestic demand and we expect the improvement in growth The year-end price was 23 per cent below the average price for to continue in FY2016.
The Western Europe spot high carbon ferromanganese Japans economy saw growth improve in annualised terms as price decreased 14 per cent during FY2015, driven by persistent the year progressed, supported by the Bank of Japans quantitative oversupply and the currency depreciation of major producers easing and a weaker yen.
Growth should be supported by stronger in India, Australia, South Africa and Europe.
A longer-term, sustainable Exchange rates recovery is contingent on the scale and speed of structural reform.
We remain exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign Commodity prices generally trended downwards in FY2015, with currency sales and purchases, as we believe active currency prices for most of our commodities notably lower going into hedging does not provide long-term benefits to our shareholders.
Operating costs and costs of locally sourced equipment are Chinese steel production declined by 1.3 per cent in the second influenced by fluctuations in local currencies, primarily the half of FY2015 versus the corresponding period in FY2014, triggered Australian dollar and Chilean peso.
Foreign exchange gains and largely by a slowing construction sector.
New construction starts losses reflected in operating costs owing to fluctuations in the local were lower this year due to considerable levels of existing stock.
currencies relative to the US dollar may potentially offset one Although Chinas steel exports are at an all-time high, we expect another.
The majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars subdued crude steel production growth over the remainder of and we borrow and hold surplus cash predominately in US dollars: CY2015 with some upside potential should the construction sector those transactions and balances provide no foreign exchange recover.
However, with steel stock per capita still well below that exposure relative to the US dollar functional currency of the Group.
of developed nations, we expect moderate but sustainable growth The US dollar strengthened against our main local currencies during in Chinese steel production over the next decade.
An extended FY2015, resulting in stronger average US dollar rates versus the view on the life cycle of steel usage has resulted in a lower but Australian dollar and Chilean peso.
Average and closing exchange longer plateau for crude steel production, peaking between 935 Mt rates for current and prior periods are contained within note 42 and 985 Mt in the middle of the next decade.
The implications for Functional and presentation currency to the Financial Statements.
pig iron demand, and therefore iron ore and metallurgical coal, We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation are mitigated in the medium term by lower scrap availability as the scrap cycle in China will take longer to develop.
Outside to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, including certain debt and other China, steel production growth is improving steadily driven by India, the Middle East and South-East Asia.
Details of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations are contained within note 23 Financial risk The supply of most steelmaking raw materials has grown faster management to the Financial Statements.
In iron ore, we estimate that approximately 100 Mt of incremental lower cost seaborne supply will enter the market Changes in product demand and supply in CY2015, outweighing demand growth.
In this context, higher The global economy grew at a modest rate in FY2015 with a cost Chinese domestic production, along with high-cost seaborne mild improvement in developed economies offsetting a moderation exports, continues to exit the market.
Private mines in China have in emerging markets.
seen their operating rates fall from approximately 90 per cent in In China, a slowdown in the property sector and fixed asset CY2011 to approximately 35 per cent today.
Many producers have investment led to lower economic growth following policy also cut their costs.
As a result, the iron ore cost curve has both tightening in CY2014.
Consumer spending remained resilient flattened and fallen from previous levels.
reflecting the continued rebalancing of the economy.
A number In metallurgical coal, while uneconomic high-cost supply has slowly of interest rate reductions, cuts in bank reserve requirements, withdrawn from the seaborne market, prices remain subdued as boosts to infrastructure spending and administrative measures industry-wide cost reductions and weaker producer currencies supporting the property market are likely to buttress growth against the US dollar support continued production from marginal over the remainder of CY2015.
In line with our expectations, suppliers.
Recent quality restrictions have also weakened Chinas the economy is growing more slowly, though off a higher base, import demand but this was partially offset by growth in traditional as it matures over the medium term and the governments reform markets.
The long-term outlook remains robust as the supply program promotes domestic consumption over investment.
of premium hard coking coals becomes scarce.
We expect near-term volatility to continue as the authorities press ahead with reform in a cautious but sustained manner Depreciating currencies have sustained Indonesian and Australian as they seek to improve the efficiency of capital allocation thermal coal exports, prolonging the weak pricing environment.
in the economy while maintaining support for employment.
Despite healthy seaborne demand growth from India, Chinas However, our robust longer-term outlook for China remains import demand has weakened, limiting prospects for price intact as the economy transitions.
recovery in the near term.
In copper, prices were affected by weaker than expected consumption and the strengthening US dollar.
In the near term, new supply under development is expected to keep the market well supplied.
However, a deficit is expected to emerge at the end of this decade as grade decline, rising costs and a scarcity of high-quality future development opportunities are likely to constrain the industrys ability to meet attractive demand growth.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 61 1 Strategic Report continued 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued Global crude oil demand growth was outpaced by supply growth costs associated with higher volumes of US$3.2 billion.
With higher putting pressure on prices throughout the year.
Despite strong depreciation and amortisation charges of US$1.4 billion and higher demand growth, liquids supply exceeded demand by 2.6 MMboe d impairment charges of US$350 million.
Total expenses excluding in the second half of FY2015.
We expect prices to remain range exceptional items of US$3.2 billion decreased from US$36.5 billion bound in the short term due to available supply capacity from to US$33.8 billion.
the United States and OPEC.
The long-term demand outlook Exploration and development of resources remains healthy, underpinned by the transport sector, notably Minerals exploration in the Asian region.
Over the past six years, brownfield exploration has increased US natural gas prices declined during the year as production growth our reserve base around our portfolio of existing assets in large was only partially offset by increased consumption in the power resource basins, which now provide us with growth opportunities.
In the longer term, demand is expected to benefit from This has allowed us to reduce brownfield exploration expenditure increasing industrial use, growth in gas-fired power generation and rationalise our greenfield exploration program.
and the start of LNG exports.
As core acreage is depleted, less Greenfield minerals new sites exploration is focused on advancing productive and higher cost shale areas will be required to targets within Chile, Peru, southwestern United States and is meet growing demand.
In the LNG market, weaker North Asian organised through our Copper Business.
Greenfield activities end-user demand and ample supply have kept prices subdued.
include opportunity identification, application for and acquisition We expect modest growth of the global economy.
In the longer of mineral title, early reconnaissance operations and multi-million term, urbanisation and industrialisation will remain the primary dollar delineation drilling programs.
The transition to consumption-led In addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class growth in emerging economies should provide particular support deposits, several of our Businesses undertake brownfield for industrial metals, energy and fertilisers.
exploration, principally aimed at delineating and categorising Capital expenditure mineral deposits near existing operations, and advancing projects Capital expenditure is important in pursuing our strategy through through the development pipeline.
the development of large-scale resource projects and in sustaining Our expenditure on minerals exploration over the last three our existing operations.
Capital expenditure is disclosed for each financial years is set out below.
2015 2014 2013 Operating costs US$M US$M US$M Information in this section has been presented on a Continuing Year ended 30 June Restated Restated operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that Greenfield exploration 55 46 179 were demerged with South32, unless otherwise noted.
Details Brownfield exploration 194 340 467 of the contribution of the South32 assets to the Groups results are disclosed in note 29 Discontinued operations to the 1 Total minerals exploration 249 386 646 Financial Statements.
1 Excludes minerals exploration from Discontinued operations.
As the prices for our products are determined by the global commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally The Groups minerals exploration expenditure declined have the ability to offset cost pressures through corresponding by 36 per cent in FY2015 to US$249 million as we sharpened price increases: therefore, controlling our operating costs is a key our focus on advancing copper targets within Chile, Peru driver of our results.
Operating costs for the last three years are and southwestern United States.
set out in section 1.11.1 as well as an analysis of the change in Total Petroleum exploration expenses.
Further analysis of the factors that impacted expenses during FY2015 is set out below and in section 1.15.3.
We have reduced exploration expenditure in Petroleum over recent years with a focus on high-impact liquids opportunities in the Gulf In discussing the factors that affected Total expenses, we refer of Mexico, Western Australia and Trinidad and Tobago.
to the change in operating cash costs and change in exploration and business development.
Collectively we refer to these as change 2015 2014 2013 in controllable cash costs.
Operating cash costs by definition Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M do not include non-cash costs being depreciation, amortisation, Petroleum exploration 567 600 675 impairments, movements in deferred stripping balances and movements in provisions.
The change in operating cash costs also Exploration expense excludes the impact of exchange rates and inflation on the actual costs incurred in the corresponding period, changes in fuel and Exploration expense represents that portion of exploration energy costs, changes in exploration and business development expenditure that is not capitalised in accordance with our costs and one-off items.
These items are excluded so as to accounting policies, as set out in note 43 Significant accounting provide a consistent measurement of changes in costs across policies to the Financial Statements.
all the Businesses based on the factors that are within their Exploration expense for each Business over the three-year period control and responsibility.
Change in operating cash costs and change in controllable 2015 2014 2013 cash costs are not measures that are recognised under US$M US$M US$M International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and they Year ended 30 June Restated Restated may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other 1 2 Exploration expense companies.
A reconciliation of the movements in Underlying Petroleum and Potash 532 544 709 EBIT to the financial statement line items in the Consolidated Income Statement is included in section 2.5 of this Annual Report.
Copper 90 111 266 Iron Ore 38 56 74 Our focus on reducing operating costs through productivity initiatives saw a decrease in operating cash costs of US$2.7 billion Coal 20 29 32 and a reduction in exploration and business development of Group and unallocated items 18 30 47 US$29 million for a combined reduction in controllable cash BHP Billiton Group 698 770 1,128 costs of US$2.7 billion.
In addition, the improvement in operating costs was complemented by favourable exchange rate impacts 1 Excludes exploration expenses from Discontinued operations.
These improvements were partially offset by 2 Includes US$28 million 2014: US$72 million: 2013: US$102 million exploration expense previously capitalised, written off as impaired.
inflation of US$433 million and an increase in the production 62 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
