9 Shareholder information continued A US beneficial owner of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc 9.11 Government regulations shares or ADSs who received a distribution of shares or ADSs of Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
South32 pursuant to the demerger a Participating US holder will be treated as receiving a taxable distribution for an amount The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental equal to the US dollar fair market value at the time of the distribution to BHP Billiton.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped of the South32 shares or South32 ADSs distributed as part of the mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
The distribution by BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton jurisdictions, we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government Plc will be treated as a dividend for US federal income tax purposes that owns the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights usually take to the extent of current or accumulated earnings and profits as the form of a lease or licence, which gives us the right to access determined for US federal income tax purposes of BHP Billiton the land and extract the product.
The terms of the lease or licence, Limited in the case of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and including the time period for which it is effective, are specific to the BHP Billiton Limited ADS holders or of BHP Billiton Plc in the case laws of the relevant government.
Generally, we own the product we of BHP Billiton Plc shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc ADS holders.
extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
Any excess will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the In certain jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Trinidad extent of the Participating US holders tax basis in BHP Billiton shares and Tobago, a production sharing contract PSC governs the or BHP Billiton ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
BHP Billiton relationship between the government and companies concerning Limited and BHP Billiton Plc do not maintain calculations of their how much of the oil and gas extracted from the country each will earnings and profits in accordance with US federal income tax receive.
In PSCs, the government awards rights for the execution principles: therefore, Participating US holders should assume that of exploration, development and production activities to the the entire distribution will be taxed as a dividend.
The company bears the financial risk of the initiative and explores, develops and ultimately produces the field as Subject to certain exceptions for short-term and hedged positions, required.
When successful, the company is permitted to use the a non-corporate Participating US holder of shares in BHP Billiton money from a certain set percentage of produced oil and gas Limited or BHP Billiton Plc or their ADSs will generally be subject to recover capital and operational expenditures, known as cost to tax on the distribution at the rate applicable to long-term capital oil.
The remaining production is known as profit oil and is split gains, provided that BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as between the government and the company at a rate determined applicable are not PFICs in their current taxable year and were by the government and set out in the PSC.
not PFICs for their most recently ended taxable year.
Based on their audited annual Financial Statements, BHP Billiton Limited Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the minerals, and BHP Billiton Plc do not believe they are PFICs or were PFICs for oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant government their most recently ended taxable years.
However, this is a factual to grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted determination that is based upon regulations and guidance the material in order to ready it for sale.
interpretation of which is not entirely clear, and accordingly there Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural can be no assurances in this regard.
resources is the ability to explore for those natural resources.
In the case of a corporate Participating US holder, the distribution Typically, the rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction generally are granted to us by the government that owns those natural available in receipt of dividends from US domestic corporations.
resources that we wish to explore.
Usually, the right to explore If taxable as a dividend, the distribution will be income from sources carries with it the obligation to spend a defined amount of money outside the United States, and generally will be passive category on the exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
income under the rules for computing the foreign tax credit Although onshore oil and gas rights in the United States can allowable to a Participating US holder.
be derived from government state and federal mineral rights, A Participating US holder will have a tax basis in the South32 they are primarily derived from private ownership of the rights, shares or South32 ADSs equal to the amount of dividend income which is the case for our onshore oil and gas rights.
Oil and gas recognised in respect of the distribution.
The holding period for rights primarily take the form of a lease, but also can be owned the South32 shares or South32 ADSs will begin on the day after onshore outright in fee.
If the rights granted are by lease, we are the South32 shares or ADSs were distributed.
afforded the rights to access, explore, extract, produce and market the oil and gas for a period of years and then generally so long In general, dividends and payments of the proceeds from the thereafter as there is oil or gas production or operations on the sale, exchange or other disposition of shares, paid within the leased lands.
United States or through certain US-related financial intermediaries to a US person are subject to information reporting and may be Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of subject to backup withholding unless the holder establishes that environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational it is a corporation or other exempt recipient or, in the case of health and safety, and the rights and interests of Indigenous backup withholding, provides an accurate taxpayer identification peoples with which we must comply in order to continue to number and certifies under penalty of perjury that it is a US person enjoy the right to conduct our operations within that jurisdiction.
and that it is not subject to backup withholding.
Backup withholding These obligations often require us to make substantial expenditures is not an additional tax.
A holder generally may obtain a refund to minimise or remediate the environmental impact of our of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules operations, to ensure the safety of our employees and contractors in excess of such holders US federal income tax liability by filing and the like.
Environmental protection, land rehabilitation and a refund claim with the IRS.
occupational health and safety onshore in the United States are principally regulated by the government and to a lesser degree, if applicable, by the lease contract with the landowner.
For further information on these types of obligations, refer to section 1.14 of this Annual Report.
318 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: BHP Billiton Limited From time to time, the United Nations Security Council and the 9.11.1 Uranium production in Australia Australian Government impose international sanctions on certain To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, countries and organisations.
The countries and organisations we are required to hold possession and export permissions, which that are currently subject to United Nations sanctions are certain are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government or individuals or entities linked with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and bodies that report to the Australian Government.
associated individuals and entities, other designated individuals and entities associated with terrorism, certain entities and To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, a Permit individuals associated with the Central African Republic, the to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be held Democratic Republic of Congo, Cote dIvoire, the Democratic pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, Eritrea, Guinea-Bissau, Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Sudan, Somalia and Yemen.
by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office The countries currently subject to the Australian Governments established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers autonomous sanctions are Myanmar, the Democratic Peoples Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and reports Republic of Korea North Korea, the former Federal Republic to the Australian Government.
of Yugoslavia, Iran, Libya, Syria, Russia, Crimea and Sevastopol, To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural Ukraine and Zimbabwe.
The controls impose certain approval and Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian reporting requirements on transactions involving such countries, Customs Prohibited Exports Regulations 1958.
The Export entities and individuals and or assets controlled or owned by them.
Permit is issued by the Minister with responsibility for Resources Certain transfers into or out of Australia of amounts greater and Energy.
than A$10,000 in any currency may also be subject to reporting requirements.
In addition, under the Australian Banking Foreign A special permit to transport nuclear material is required under Exchange Regulations 1959, the Reserve Bank of Australia may the Non-Proliferation Act by a party that transports nuclear impose restrictions on certain financial transactions and require material from one specified location to another specified location.
the consent of the Reserve Bank of Australia for the movement As we engage service providers to transport uranium, each of funds into and out of Australia.
No such restrictions are of those service providers is required to hold a permit to currently in place.
transport nuclear material issued by the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office.
Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton 9.11.2 Exchange controls and shareholding limits Limiteds securities are not restricted by exchange controls BHP Billiton Plc or other limitations, save that, in certain circumstances, There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the BHP Billiton may be required to withhold Australian taxes.
United Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or the remittance of dividends to non-resident holders of or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right BHP Billiton Plcs shares, although the Group does operate of non-residents to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary in some other jurisdictions where remittances of funds could shares other than as set out below.
be affected as they are subject to exchange control approvals.
The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 There are certain sanctions adopted by the UK Government that the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares implement resolutions of the Security Council of the United in BHP Billiton.
Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval Nations and sanctions imposed by the European Union EU of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals against certain countries, entities and individuals and may restrict by a foreign person either alone or together with associates the export or import of capital or the remittance of dividends to acquire control of 15 per cent or more of the voting power to certain non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
or issued shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
Any enforcement of financial sanctions by the UK Government would be initiated by HM Treasury.
Such sanctions may be in force The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders from time to time and include those against: prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in BHP Billiton Limited i certain entities and or individuals associated with Afghanistan, and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred where Belarus, the Central African Republic, Cote dIvoire, the he considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national interest Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, the and the 15 per cent threshold referred to above would be exceeded Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, Eritrea, the Republic as a result.
Such orders may also be made in respect of acquisitions of Guinea, the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, Iran, Lebanon, by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their Liberia, the Russian Federation, Somalia, South Sudan, associates in aggregate already control 40 per cent or more Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, Ukraine, Yemen, Zimbabwe and the of the issued shares or voting power in BHP Billiton Limited.
previous regimes of Iraq and Libya: ii entities and individuals linked with Al-Qaeda and other terrorist organisations.
There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association or subject to the effect of any sanctions under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under the heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
