1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.4.
11 Remuneration for the CEO in FY2016 The remuneration for the CEO in FY2016 will be provided in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs.
3 for the remuneration policy for the CEO Base salary increase in September 2015 Base salary is reviewed annually, and increases are applicable from 1 September.
The CEO will not receive a base salary increase in September 2015 and it will remain unchanged at US$1.700 million per annum for FY2016.
FY2016 STI performance measures STI awards will be determined and provided on the same basis as set out for FY2015, and the HSEC, attributable profit, capital project management and individual performance measures are unchanged.
Given the importance the Remuneration Committee places on safety, the scorecard weighting attached to HSEC has been increased for FY2016 to 25 per cent from 20 per cent in FY2015.
The capital project management weighting has been reduced to 10 per cent from 20 per cent reflecting a lower number and value of major capital projects in execution, and the individual performance component weighting has been increased to 25 per cent from 20 per cent.
The attributable profit weighting is unchanged at 40 per cent.
6 for a description of STI for FY2015, including the performance measures The performance measures set out in the table below have been set by the Remuneration Committee for the CEO in FY2016.
Performance measure Weighting Target performance HSEC 25% Fatalities, environmental and community incidents: Nil fatalities and nil actual significant environmental and community incidents.
Year-on-year improvement in trends for events with potential for such outcomes.
TRIF and occupational illness: Improved performance compared with FY2015 results, with severity and trends to be considered as a moderating influence on the overall HSEC assessment.
Risk management: For all material risks, Businesses to have all critical control designs and critical control assessment test plans reviewed by the material risk owner and recorded.
Year-on-year improvement in trends for potential events associated with identified material risks.
Health, environment and community initiatives: All assets to achieve 100% of planned targets in respect of occupational exposure reduction, water and greenhouse gas, social investment, quality of life, community perceptions and community complaints.
Attributable profit 40% For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the target for attributable profit will not be disclosed in advance: however, we plan to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances adjusted for commodity prices where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will explain why and give foreign exchange movements an indication of when they will be disclosed.
and exceptional items Capital project management 10% For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the targets for capital project management cost and schedule will not be disclosed in advance: however, we plan to disclose targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will explain why and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Individual performance 25% The CEO's individual measures for FY2016 comprise contribution to BHP Billiton's overall performance and the management team, and the delivery of projects and initiatives within the scope of the CEO role as set out by the Board, including strategy implementation, consolidation of relationships with key stakeholders, improvement in leadership capabilities and employee engagement throughout the Group, delivery of productivity initiatives, and GMC member development and succession.
FY2016 LTI award On the advice of the Committee, the Board has proposed an FY2016 LTI award for the CEO with a face value of US$6.800 million, being 400 per cent of the CEOs base salary.
Taking into account the performance condition as represented by the fair value factor of 41 per cent, the fair value of these awards is US$2.788 million.
The FY2016 LTI award will use the same performance and service conditions, vesting schedule and peer groups as the FY2015 LTI award except that Alcoa, Cameco and MMC Norilsk Nickel have been removed from the sector peer group of companies primarily as a consequence of the South32 demerger, and the capped maximum weighting for any one company has changed from 15 per cent to 20 per cent.
8 for a description of LTI for FY2015 If approved by shareholders, this FY2016 LTI award will be granted following the AGMs i. e. in or around December 2015.
The number of awards will be notified to shareholders at the time that they are provided.
