7 Discontinued operations The assets that were demerged from BHP Billiton that formed South32 now Discontinued operations are summarised below.
The information below reflects the assets as at 25 May 2015.
For further information on the demerger, see sections 1.3.
4 of this Annual Report or note 29 Discounted operations to the Financial Statements.
Marketing o ice Singapore Head o ice Regional head o ice Perth Regional head o ice Cerro Matoso Global shared services Johannesburg Brazil Aluminium South Africa Energy Coal Australia Manganese GEMCO Cannington Mozal Aluminium South Africa South Africa Aluminium Manganese Hotazel Illawarra Metallurgical Coal Worsley Alumina Australia Manganese TEMCO South Africa Manganese Metalloys Operated Businesses Non-operated Businesses O ices Illawarra Metallurgical Coal Alumina Illawarra Metallurgical Coal operates three underground metallurgical Worsley Alumina coal mines near Wollongong in New South Wales, Australia.
At the Worsley Alumina is an integrated bauxite mining and alumina time of separation, metallurgical coal was trucked to Port Kembla refining operation located in Western Australia.
At the time of Coal Terminal or to BlueScope Steel Limiteds Port Kembla steelworks.
separation, Bauxite ore mined near Boddington was conveyed to the Worsley Alumina refinery, located near Bunbury.
Alumina Manganese was then railed from the refinery to Bunbury for export to Worsley Australia Manganese Aluminas export customers, including South32s Hillside and Australia Manganese comprises the GEMCO open-cut manganese Mozal Aluminium smelters in southern Africa.
mine and the TEMCO manganese alloy plant.
At the time of separation, GEMCO, which is located in the Northern Territory, Aluminium Australia, exported approximately 90 per cent of its ore product South Africa Aluminium to customers through port facilities at Milner Bay and the balance South Africa Aluminium comprises the Hillside smelter near of the ore was shipped to the TEMCO manganese alloy plant Richards Bay, South Africa.
Hillside imported alumina from in Bell Bay, Tasmania, Australia.
The majority of TEMCOs alloy the Worsley Alumina refinery.
At the time of separation, production was exported to customers in Asia and North America, approximately 80 per cent of Hillsides aluminium production with the balance of TEMCOs production being sold to steel was exported through Richards Bay Port, with the balance customers in Australia and New Zealand.
of Hillsides aluminium production trucked to the Bayside casthouse or to domestic customers.
South Africa Manganese South Africa Manganese comprises the Hotazel Mines, being the Mozal Aluminium Mamatwan open-cut mine and the Wessels underground mine, and Mozal Aluminium is an aluminium smelter located near Maputo, the Metalloys plant.
The Hotazel Mines are located near the town Mozambique.
At the time of separation, alumina was supplied of Kuruman, South Africa.
At the time of separation, approximately to Mozal Aluminium from the Worsley Alumina refinery, which 75 per cent of the ore was processed at the mine resulting in export is now majority owned by South32.
Most of Mozal Aluminiums saleable product.
The remainder of the ore was converted to alloy aluminium was exported to Europe through Matola, the port at the Metalloys plant, which is located near Johannesburg, of Maputo.
Brazil Aluminium Nickel Brazil Aluminium comprises an interest in the Minerao Rio do Cerro Matoso Norte MRN Mine, as well as its interests in the Alumar alumina refinery and Alumar aluminium smelter, together with some Cerro Matoso is an open-cut lateritic nickel mine and ferronickel interests in ancillary facilities and lands.
The MRN Mine is located smelter, located near Montelibano, in the Cordoba Department in the Trombetas region in the state of Para, Brazil, and Alumar in northern Colombia, which produces high-purity, low-carbon is located at Sao Luis in the state of Maranhao, Brazil.
At the time ferronickel granules.
At the time of separation, the product was of separation, the majority of the bauxite produced from the transported approximately 260 kilometres by road to Cartagena.
MRN Mine was sold to its shareholders and related parties.
Silver Bauxite produced from the MRN Mine was previously supplied Cannington to the Alumar refinery, where most of the alumina produced was exported via the nearby Sao Marcos Bay facilities, with Cannington is a silver, lead and zinc underground mine and a small portion transferred to the Alumar smelter.
All of Alumars concentrator operation located approximately 200 kilometres aluminium production was trucked to domestic customers.
southeast of Mount Isa in northwest Queensland, Australia.
At the time of separation, concentrate produced at Cannington Coal was trucked to the Yurbi rail loading facility and then railed South Africa Energy Coal approximately 800 kilometres to the Port of Townsville for export South Africa Energy Coal operates four energy coal mines in the to customers mainly located in northeast Asia, Europe and Canada.
Witbank region, located in the Mpumalanga province of South Africa.
At the time of separation, approximately 55 per cent of coal produced was sold domestically and the remainder was exported through the Richards Bay Coal Terminal RBCT.
