5 Directors Report continued 5.3 Results, financial instruments 5.5 Remuneration and share interests and going concern 5.5.
1 Remuneration Information about our financial position and financial results The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments is included in the Financial Statements in this Annual Report.
of members of the GMC including the Executive Director and The Consolidated Income Statement shows profit attributable the Non-executive Directors, and information about the relationship to BHP Billiton members of US$1.9 billion in FY2015, compared between that policy and our performance, are set out in sections with US$13.8 billion in FY2014.
4.3 and 4.4 of this Annual Report.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely The remuneration tables contained in section 4.4 of this Annual to affect its future development, performance and position are Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC including discussed in section 1 of this Annual Report.
In addition, sections the Executive Director and the Non-executive Directors.
1.5 to 1.7 and 3.15, and note 23 Financial risk management to the Financial Statements detail the Groups capital management 5.5.
2 Directors objectives, its approach to financial risk management and Sections 4.4.
27 and 5.17 of this Annual Report set out the relevant exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a of the Directors who held office during FY2015, at the beginning reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and end of FY2015, and in relation to all Directors in office as at to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the date of this Directors Report, their relevant interests in shares Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as at the date of this of accounting in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
No rights over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by any of the Non-executive Directors.
Interests held by the Executive Director under employee equity 5.4 Directors plans as at 30 June 2015 are set out in the tables showing The Directors who served at any time during the financial year interests in incentive plans contained in section 4.4 and note 24 or up until the date of this Directors Report were Jac Nasser, Key management personnel to the Financial Statements.
Andrew Mackenzie, Malcolm Brinded, Malcolm Broomhead, We have not made available to any Director any interest in Sir John Buchanan, Carlos Cordeiro, David Crawford, Pat Davies, a registered scheme.
Carolyn Hewson, Lindsay Maxsted, Wayne Murdy, Keith Rumble, The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement John Schubert and Shriti Vadera.
Further details of the current Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan in section 3.2 of this Annual Report.
These details include the period for which each Director held office up to the date of this was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
Directors Report, their qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, the directorships held in other listed companies Further information about this plan and its closure are set out in section 4.4.
since 1 July 2012 and the period for which each directorship has been held.
3 GMC members David Crawford and Keith Rumble retired as Non-executive Sections 4.4.
27 and 5.18 of this Annual Report set out the relevant Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect interests held by those senior executives who were members of from 20 November 2014 and 22 May 2015, respectively.
Sir John the GMC other than the Executive Director during FY2015 in shares Buchanan served as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and from 2003 up until his death on 13 July 2015.
Sir John was end of FY2015, and at the date of this Directors Report.
Interests the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
held by members of the GMC under employee equity plans as at Carlos Cordeiro has announced that he will retire as a Non-executive 30 June 2015 are set out in the tables showing interests in incentive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at the plans contained in section 4.4 and note 24 Key management conclusion of the BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting personnel to the Financial Statements.
Anita Frew was appointed as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton 5.6 Secretaries Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 15 September 2015 and, in accordance with the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Margaret Taylor is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of her the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association, will seek election qualifications and experience are set out in section 3.2 of this at the 2015 Annual General Meetings.
The following people also act, or have acted during the financial year, as company secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited, Shriti Vadera was appointed the Senior Independent Director BHP Billiton Plc or both as indicated : Jane McAloon, BEc Hons, for BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 14 August 2015.
LLB, GDipGov, FCIS BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held resigned 1 June 2015, Nicole Duncan, BA Hons, LLB BHP Billiton during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings Limited and BHP Billiton Plc resigned 12 December 2014, Rachel are set out in section 3.12 of this Annual Report.
Agnew, BComm Economics, LLB Hons BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc appointed 12 December 2014, Kathryn Griffiths, BA, LLB Hons, GDipACG, FCIS, FGIA, GAICD BHP Billiton Limited appointed 12 December 2014, Megan Pepper, BA Hons, LLB Hons, GradDipACG, FCIS, FGIA BHP Billiton Limited appointed 12 December 2014, Geof Stapledon, BEc, LLB Hons, DPhil, FCIS BHP Billiton Plc and Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACIS BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual has experience in a company secretariat role or other relevant fields arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton, large listed companies or other relevant entities.
