3 Components of remuneration The following table shows the components of total remuneration, the link to strategy, how each component operates, how performance is assessed and will impact remuneration, and the maximum opportunity for each component.
Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum Base salary Base salary is broadly aligned with salaries for comparable roles in global companies 8% increase per annum of similar global complexity, size, reach and industry, and reflects the CEOs responsibilities, annualised, or inflation A competitive base salary is paid location, skills, performance, qualifications and experience.
in order to attract and retain a high-quality and experienced Base salary is reviewed annually with effect from 1 September.
Reviews are informed, CEO, and to provide appropriate but not led, by benchmarking to comparable roles as above, changes in responsibility remuneration for this important and general economic conditions.
Substantial weight is also given to the general base role in the Group.
Base salary is not subject to separate performance conditions.
Base salary is denominated in US dollars.
The Remuneration Committees discretion in respect of base salary increases applies up to the maximum shown.
Pension Pension contributions are benchmarked to comparable roles in global companies.
Provides a market-competitive Pension contributions are provided, with a choice of funding vehicles: a defined contribution level of post-employment benefit plan, an unfunded retirement savings plan, an international retirement plan or a self-managed to attract and retain a high-quality superannuation fund.
Alternatively, a cash payment may be provided in lieu.
The Committees discretion in respect of pension contributions applies up to the maximum shown.
Benefits Benefits may be provided as determined by the Committee.
Currently, this includes such Benefits as determined items as the costs of private family health insurance, death and disability insurance, car by the Committee but Provides personal insurances parking, and personal tax return preparation in the required countries where BHP Billiton to a limit not exceeding and assistance where has requested that the CEO relocate internationally, or where BHP Billitons Dual Listed 10% of base salary BHP Billitons structure gives Company structure requires personal tax returns in multiple jurisdictions.
and if applicable rise to tax obligations across a one-off taxable multiple jurisdictions, and The CEO may from time to time be accompanied by his spouse partner on business related relocation allowance a market-competitive level travel, including for Board meetings.
The costs associated with spouse partner attendance up to US$700,000.
of benefits to attract and are met by BHP Billiton.
In some instances, they are deemed to be taxable benefits for the retain a high-quality CEO.
In such cases, BHP Billiton reimburses the CEO for this tax cost.
The CEO is eligible to participate in Shareplus, which is BHP Billitons all-employee share purchase plan.
26 for information about Shareplus and the CEOs participation The Committees discretion in respect of benefits applies up to the maximums shown.
A relocation allowance and assistance is provided only where a change of location is made at BHP Billitons request.
The Groups mobility policies provide one-off payments with no trailing entitlements.
STI Setting performance measures and targets Maximum award The purpose of STI is to focus A scorecard of measures is set at the commencement of each financial year.
240% of base salary the CEOs efforts on those cash 120% and 120% The measures and their relative weightings are chosen by the Committee, in their discretion, performance measures and in deferred equity.
in order to appropriately drive overall performance for the coming year.
Specified financial outcomes that are priorities measures will constitute the largest weighting.
The scorecard will also include measures Target performance for the Group for the relevant that impact the long-term sustainability of the Group.
The Sustainability Committee assists 160% of base salary financial year, and to motivate the Remuneration Committee in determining appropriate HSEC measures and weightings.
cash 80% and 80% the CEO to strive to achieve We plan to disclose the weightings of HSEC, financial and individual measures around the in deferred equity.
beginning of each performance period.
Threshold The performance measures The target is determined for each performance measure at a level which will motivate performance for each year are chosen on the CEO to achieve an appropriately stretching annual performance outcome and which the basis that they are expected will contribute to the longer-term success of the Group and shareholder wealth.
The target 80% of base salary to have a significant shortand for each financial measure is derived from the annual budget as approved by the Board for cash 40% and 40% long-term impact on the success the relevant financial year.
For HSEC and for individual measures the target is ordinarily expressed in narrative form and Minimum award will be disclosed near the beginning of the performance period.
For reasons of commercial Deferral of a portion of STI awards Zero sensitivity, while we will provide a narrative description of financial target performance in in deferred equity over BHP Billiton broad terms, the actual target for each financial measure will not be disclosed in advance.
shares encourages a longer-term However, we plan to disclose the target for each measure retrospectively.
In the rare instances focus aligned to that of where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain shareholders.
why and give an indication of when the target may be disclosed.
3 for information Should any other performance measures be added at the discretion of the Committee, on MSR for the CEO we will determine the timing of disclosure of the relevant target with due consideration of commercial sensitivity.
Section 1.10 for a description of Section 4.4.
6 for details of performance measures and outcomes for FY2015 KPIs for the Group Section 4.4.
11 for details of performance measures for FY2016 168 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.3.
3 Components of remuneration continued Remuneration component 1 and link to strategy Operation and performance framework Maximum STI continued Assessment of performance At the conclusion of the financial year, the CEOs achievement against each measure is assessed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board, and an STI award determined.
If performance is below the Threshold level for any measure, no STI will be provided in respect of that portion of the STI opportunity.
The Remuneration Committee is assisted by the Sustainability Committee in relation to assessment of performance against HSEC measures, and considers guidance provided by other Committees in respect of other measures.
The Board believes this method of assessment is transparent, rigorous and balanced, and provides an appropriate, objective and comprehensive assessment of performance.
In the event that the Remuneration Committee does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply to be a true reflection of the performance of the Group or should it consider that individual performance or other circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to not provide all or a part of any STI award.
This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended award outcomes.
Delivery of award STI awards are provided under the STIP.
The value of any STI award is provided half in cash and half in an award of the equivalent value of BHP Billiton equity, which is deferred for two years and may be forfeited if the CEO leaves the Group within the deferral period.
The award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP Billiton shares in 2 the future if the CEO is still employed by BHP Billiton at the end of the deferral period.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested 3 awards.
The Committee has a discretion to settle STI awards in cash.
Both cash and equity STI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below this table.
LTI Relative TSR performance condition Normal Maximum Award The purpose of the LTI is to The award is subject to a relative TSR performance condition, which must be achieved over 4 focus the CEOs efforts on the a five-year period.
Full vesting under the LTIP only occurs where BHP Billitons relative TSR Face value of 400% achievement of sustainable significantly outperforms the TSR of the comparator group s. The comparator group s and of base salary.
long-term value creation and the weighting between comparator groups will be determined by the Committee in relation Exceptional Maximum success of the Group including to each grant.
8 for further detail Face value of 488% of business risks.
on LTIP comparator group s of base salary.
It aligns the CEOs reward with Relative TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows for an objective sustained shareholder wealth external assessment over a sustained period on a basis that is familiar to shareholders.
creation in excess of that of relevant comparator group s, Level of performance required for vesting through the relative TSR None of the award will vest if BHP Billitons TSR is below the Peer Group TSR being the 6 performance condition.
weighted median TSR where the comparator group is a specified group of peer companies and or below Index TSR being the index value where the comparator group is a market index The provision of LTIP awards such as the MSCI World index.
over BHP Billiton shares also For each award, the Committee will determine the level of relative TSR outperformance encourages long-term share required on a per annum basis, or on a compounded basis over the five-year period, against exposure for the CEO, and aligns the peer group and or market index in order for the whole of the LTI award to vest.
the long-term interests of the CEO and shareholders.
8 for details of the outperformance required for recent grants Demonstration of this alignment between the interests of the CEO 25% of the award will vest if BHP Billitons TSR is equal to the Peer Group TSR and or Index and shareholders is seen through TSR as applicable, and vesting occurs on a sliding scale between that point and the point the five-year performance period of full vesting.
of the LTI which is consistent There is no retesting if the performance condition is not met.
In the event that the Committee with the long-term nature does not consider the level of vesting that would otherwise apply based on the Groups of the resources industry.
achievement of the relative TSR performance condition to be a true reflection of the underlying performance of the Group, or should it consider that individual performance or other Section 4.4.
3 for information circumstances makes this an inappropriate outcome, it retains the discretion to lapse any on MSR for the CEO portion or all of the award.
This is an important mitigation against the risk of unintended Section 4.4.
21 for a table of vesting outcomes.
awards held under the LTIP To ensure that the LTI performance conditions continue to support operational excellence, risk management and the execution of the Groups strategy, the Committee retains discretion Section 1.10 for a description to add further performance measures to supplement the existing relative TSR performance of KPIs for the Group condition.
Prior to doing so, consultation would be undertaken with key stakeholders.
Should this be the case, the vesting of a portion of any LTI award may instead be linked to performance against the new measure s. The Committee expects that in the event of introducing an additional performance measure s, the weighting on relative TSR would remain the majority weighting.
Delivery of award LTI awards are provided under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
When considering the value of the award to be provided, the Committee primarily considers the face value of the award, and also considers its fair value which includes 7 consideration of the performance conditions.
The award of deferred equity comprises rights to receive ordinary BHP Billiton shares in 2 the future if the performance and service conditions are met.
Before vesting or exercise, these rights are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends 3 or other shareholder rights: however, a DEP is provided on vested awards.
The Committee has a discretion to settle LTI awards in cash.
LTI awards are subject to malus and clawback as described below this table.
5 for how the remuneration policy considers other employees 1 UK regulations require the disclosure of the maximum that may be paid in respect of each remuneration component.
Where that is expressed as a maximum annual percentage increase which is annualised it should not be interpreted that it is the Companys current intention to award an increase of that size in total in any one year, or in each year, and instead it is a maximum required to be disclosed under the regulations.
2 The award may be retained if the CEO has left the Group in certain circumstances.
8 for payments on loss of office BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 169
