9 Shareholder information continued Alternative access to the Annual Report 9.11.2 Exchange controls and We offer an alternative for all shareholders who wish to be advised shareholding limits continued of the availability of the Annual Report through our website via There are certain other statutory restrictions, and restrictions an email notification.
By providing an email address through our under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs website, shareholders will be notified by email when the Annual Articles of Association, that apply generally to acquisitions Report has been released.
Shareholders will also receive notification of shares in BHP Billiton i. e. the restrictions are not targeted of other major BHP Billiton announcements by email.
Shareholders at foreign persons only.
These include restrictions on a person requiring further information or wishing to make use of this service and associates breaching a voting power threshold of: should visit our website w w w. bhpbilliton.
20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a stand-alone ADR holders wishing to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report basis i. e. calculated as if there were no Special Voting Share 2015 can do so by accessing h t tp : pir.
com v5 and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary shares : index.
cp code A5 48 or calling Citibank Shareholder Services 30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for a during normal business hours.
ADR holders may also contact the mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and this adviser that administers their investments.
Holders of BHP Billiton threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc therefore Plc shares dematerialised into Strate should liaise directly with their including voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc Special Central Securities Depository Participant CSDP or broker.
Voting Share : 30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone basis Key dates for shareholders i. e. calculated as if there were no Special Voting Share and only The following table sets out future dates in the next financial counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares : and calendar year of interest to our shareholders.
If there 20 per cent in relation to the BHP Billiton Group, calculated are any changes to these dates, all relevant stock exchanges having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis see section 9.2 of this Annual Report will be notified.
i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
Date Event 29 September 2015 Final Dividend Payment Date Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these 22 October 2015 BHP Billiton Plc Annual General Meeting in London thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, Venue: include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and Broad Sanctuary Westminster its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
London SW1P 3EE United Kingdom 9.12 Ancillary information for Time: 11.00am local time Details of the business of the meeting are contained our shareholders in the separate Notice of Meeting This Annual Report provides the detailed financial data 19 November 2015 BHP Billiton Limited Annual General Meeting and information on the BHP Billiton Groups performance in Perth Venue: required to comply with the reporting regimes in Australia, Perth Convention and Exhibition Centre the United Kingdom and the United States.
21 Mounts Bay Road Shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will Perth, Western Australia Time: 10.00am local time receive a copy of the Annual Report if they have requested Details of the business of the meeting are contained a copy.
ADR holders may view all documents online at in the separate Notice of Meeting w w w. bhpbilliton.
com or opt to receive a hard copy by accessing h t t p : pir.
cp code A5 48 23 February 2016 Interim Results Announced or calling Citibank Shareholder Services during normal business 11 March 2016 Interim Dividend Record Date hours using the details listed on the inside back cover of this 31 March 2016 Interim Dividend Payment Date Annual Report.
16 August 2016 Annual Results Announced Change of shareholder details and enquiries Shareholders wishing to contact BHP Billiton on any matter relating to their shares or ADR holdings are invited to telephone the appropriate office of the BHP Billiton Share Registrar or Transfer Office listed on the inside back cover of this Annual Report.
Any change in shareholding details should be notified by the shareholder to the relevant Registrar in a timely manner.
Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details and change many of those details online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder Reference Number SRN or Holder Identification Number HIN in order to access this information.
