1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Director assessment committees continues to function effectively.
Potential enhancements related to continuing to ensure that the Board, In respect of FY2015, an externally facilitated evaluation of each the Group and its systems and processes are right-sized for Director was conducted using the electronic Lintstock service.
a simplified BHP Billiton following the demerger of South32.
Lintstock is a UK-based provider of corporate advice, which has no other connection to the BHP Billiton Group.
Completed Enhancements following previous evaluations evaluations for individual Directors were submitted to the Chairman, Board and committee evaluations conducted in recent years have and the Chairmans evaluation was submitted to Dr Schubert.
led to a number of improvements to Board meeting processes The evaluation found that the Board was described as cohesive to enhance the Boards work and effectiveness.
Following the and collegiate in nature with effective engagement, particularly external assessment of the Board in FY2014, changes included when addressing difficult issues.
The review also noted that as streamlining of the Board meeting processes and procedures, the the Board continues to progress through this period of transition, introduction of regular Asset President meetings to allow Board the willingness to speak up, and effective working relationships, members to engage with operating executives on a broad range will continue to be areas of focus.
of issues, and formalisation of the focused Board strategy forum.
Committee assessment In addition, as a result of the assessment, the Finance Committee was dissolved and its responsibilities allocated between the Board In respect of FY2015, an externally facilitated evaluation of each and the Risk and Audit Committee.
Further information is set out Board committee was conducted using the electronic Lintstock in section 3.14.5. service.
The evaluation was designed to draw out views on work, process and overall effectiveness of the committees.
Some of the outcomes from each of the Board committee evaluations are set out in section 3.14.
The assessments determined that each of the 3.12 Board meetings and attendance The Board meets as often as necessary to fulfil its role.
Directors Members of the GMC and other members of senior management are required to allocate sufficient time to the Group to perform attended meetings of the Board by invitation.
Senior managers their responsibilities effectively, including adequate time to prepare delivered presentations on the status and performance of our for Board meetings.
During the reporting year, the Board met Businesses and matters reserved for the Board, including the 10 times, with six of those meetings being held in Australia and approval of budgets, annual Financial Statements and strategy.
four in the United Kingdom.
Regularly scheduled Board meetings Attendance at Board and standing Board committee meetings run over three days including committee meetings and Director during FY2015 is set out in the table below.
Nomination and Board Risk and Audit Governance Remuneration Sustainability Finance A B A B A B A B A B A B Malcolm Brinded 10 10 6 6 Malcolm Broomhead 10 10 3 3 6 6 2 2 John Buchanan 10 8 5 4 7 5 Carlos Cordeiro 10 10 7 7 David Crawford 4 4 2 2 Pat Davies 10 10 7 7 3 3 Carolyn Hewson 10 10 4 4 7 7 Andrew Mackenzie 10 10 Lindsay Maxsted 10 10 8 8 2 2 Wayne Murdy 10 10 8 8 2 2 Jac Nasser 10 10 5 5 Keith Rumble 9 8 5 5 John Schubert 10 10 5 5 4 4 6 6 Shriti Vadera 10 10 8 8 3 3 Column A: indicates the number of scheduled and ad-hoc meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
Column B: indicates the number of scheduled and ad-hoc meetings attended by the Director during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or committee.
3.13 Director re-election The Board has adopted a policy, consistent with the UK Corporate recommendation of the Nomination and Governance Committee, Governance Code, under which all Directors must seek re-election makes a determination as to whether it will endorse a retiring by shareholders annually, if they wish to remain on the Board.
The Board will not endorse a Director for This policy took effect at the 2011 AGMs.
The Board believes that re-election if his or her performance is not considered satisfactory.
annual re-election promotes and supports accountability to The Notice of Meeting will provide information that is material shareholders.
The combined voting outcome of the BHP Billiton Plc to a shareholders decision whether or not to re-elect a Director, and BHP Billiton Limited 2014 AGMs meant that each Director including whether or not re-election is supported by the Board.
received more than 98.3 per cent in support of their re-election.
BHP Billiton does not apply or implement a no vacancy rule in Board support for reappointment is not automatic.
Directors relation to Board appointments.
Accordingly, Director candidates who are seeking re-election are subject to a performance appraisal can be elected to the Board by ordinary resolution and are not overseen by the Nomination and Governance Committee of the required to out-poll an incumbent Director in order to be elected.
Annual re-election effectively means all Directors are subject to a performance appraisal annually.
The Board, on the BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 149
