6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 9.7 Dividends Policy Aligning the final date to receive currency elections currency election date with the Record Date further simplifies the process.
We have a progressive dividend policy that seeks to steadily increase or at least to maintain the dividend in US dollars at each Payments half-yearly payment.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders may have their cash dividends We declare our dividends and other distributions in US dollars paid directly into their bank account in Australian dollars, UK pounds as it is our main functional currency.
BHP Billiton Limited pays its sterling, New Zealand dollars or US dollars, provided that they dividends in Australian dollars, UK pounds sterling, New Zealand have submitted direct credit details and if required, a valid currency dollars or US dollars.
BHP Billiton Plc pays its dividends in election nominating a financial institution to the BHP Billiton Share UK pounds sterling or US dollars, if elected to shareholders Registrar in Australia no later than close of business on the Dividend registered on its principal register in the United Kingdom and Record Date.
BHP Billiton Limited shareholders who do not provide in South African rand to shareholders registered on its branch their direct credit details will receive dividend payments by way register in South Africa.
of a cheque in Australian dollars.
Currency conversions will be based on the foreign currency BHP Billiton Plc shareholders on the United Kingdom register exchange rates on the Record Date, except for the conversion who wish to receive their dividends in US dollars must complete into South African rand, which will take place on the last day the appropriate election form and return it to the BHP Billiton Share to trade cum dividend on the JSE.
Registrar in the United Kingdom no later than close of business on the Dividend Record Date.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders may Aligning the currency conversion date with the Record Date have their cash dividends paid directly into a bank or building for all currencies except the conversion into South African rand, society by completing a dividend mandate form, which is available which takes place on and is aligned to the last day to trade on the from the BHP Billiton Share Registrar in the United Kingdom or JSE as explained above enables a high level of certainty around South Africa.
the currency required to pay the dividend and helps to eliminate the Groups exposure to movements in exchange rates since the number of shares on which dividends are payable and the elected currency is final at close of business on the Record Date.
9.8 Share price information The following tables show the share prices for the period indicated for ordinary shares and ADSs for each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The share prices are the highest and lowest closing market quotations for ordinary shares reported on the Daily Official List of the ASX and LSE respectively, and the highest and lowest closing prices for ADSs quoted on the NYSE, adjusted to reflect stock dividends.
The total market capitalisation of BHP Billiton Limited at 21 August 2015 was A$77.4 billion US$56.8 billion equivalent, which represented approximately 5.06 per cent of the total market capitalisation of the ASX All Ordinaries Index.
The closing price for BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares on the ASX on that date was A$24.10.
