21 LTI awards under the LTIP Awards under the LTIP will not deliver any value to the holder for at least five years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness.
A new LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs and was effective for grants from December 2013.
The terms and conditions of the new LTIP, including the performance conditions, are described in sections 4.3.
8 of this Report and are largely the same as the former LTIP.
The rules are available on the BHP Billiton website.
The estimated vesting month is shown in the table.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the fifth anniversary of that vesting date.
2 The market price shown for the grants made in FY2015 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 19 December 2014.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2014, using a Monte Carlo simulation, and was A$18.70.
3 58 per cent of the LTIP awards granted in December 2009 became fully vested on 20 August 2014, following the performance condition being fully achieved and the Remuneration Committee considering its discretion over the vesting outcome, as described in section 4.3.
The remaining 42 per cent of the LTIP awards lapsed and cannot be exercised by the previous holders.
The price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the vesting date.
4 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their LTIP award.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the award.
5 The amounts shown in this column are the value of the DEP paid on awards.
6 Awards shown as held by Mike Fraser, Graham Kerr, Jane McAloon and Karen Wood are their balances at the date they ceased being KMP.
The subsequent treatment of their awards is set out in section 4.4.
18 of the FY2014 or FY2015 Report, as applicable.
