1 Strategic Report continued 1.6 Strategic priorities Our GMC maintains a strong focus on the following strategic priorities in order to execute the Companys strategy.
A number of these priorities are monitored by the GMC using the key performance indicators as presented in section 1.10 of this Annual Report.
1 Continue to operate sustainably We will continue to operate sustainably with our focus on the As part of our constant focus to eliminate fatal and other serious following areas: incidents, a Company-level safety intervention was initiated in FY2015.
The safety intervention was launched across our business Protect our people and improve the health and safety of our through a variety of methods, including workshops, team talks and operations surveys.
Feedback was presented at our senior leaders meeting The health, safety and wellbeing of our people are central to in July 2015, identifying the key controls, programs, systems, the success of our organisation.
Regardless of where our people processes and tools currently in place that require improvement are located or the type of work they undertake, we strive to create and Company-wide adoption through focused leadership.
a working environment that is free from occupational illness or Support sustainable development of our host communities injury.
Identifying and managing fatal and material risk is a critical component of our management approach.
By understanding and We strive to be a valued partner in the communities in which we managing our risks, we provide greater protection for our people, operate and, through all our interactions, seek to foster meaningful, communities and assets.
long-term relationships that respect local cultures and create lasting benefits.
We are also proud of our broader contribution Despite our goal to achieve zero work-related fatalities, tragically to society.
Our commodities support economic development and we lost five of our colleagues in FY2015.
Four fatalities occurred ultimately lead to urbanisation and improved standards of living.
during on-site work activities and one fatality occurred in an Through employment, taxes and royalties, we support local, off-site transportation accident.
Independent investigations regional and national economies.
Where possible, we purchase were undertaken for each incident, with remedial action taken local goods and services and develop infrastructure that benefits and findings from the investigations shared across the Group.
In FY2014, we had no work-related fatalities at our operated assets, a goal that we will continue to work towards.
Our position on climate change We accept the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes IPCC assessment of climate change science which has found that warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable.
We believe that: The world must pursue the twin objectives of: limiting climate change to the lower end of the IPCC emission scenarios in line with current international agreements: while providing access to reliable and affordable energy to support economic development and improved living standards.
Under all current plausible scenarios, fossil fuels will continue to be a significant part of the energy mix for decades.
Therefore, there needs to be an acceleration of effort to drive energy efficiency, develop and deploy low-emissions technology and adapt to the impacts of climate change.
There should be a price on carbon, implemented in a way that addresses competitiveness concerns and achieves lowest cost emissions reductions.
We will: continue to take action to reduce our emissions: build resilience of our operations, investments, communities and ecosystems to climate change impacts: seek to enhance the global response by engaging with governments, recognising their role as policy makers: work in partnership with resource sector peers to improve sectoral performance and increase the industrys influence in policy development to deliver effective long-term regulatory responses: contribute to reducing emissions from the use of fossil fuels through material investments in low-emission technology.
16 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.6.
1 Continue to operate sustainably continued 1.6.
2 A more productive organisation We voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, calculated During the past year, we have continued to focus on sustainable on the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit, in improvement in productivity across the Company.
Our people have community programs.
Since 2001, BHP Billiton has committed worked smarter to identify and implement more productive ways more than US$2 billion in programs that aim to have a long-lasting, of working.
Our portfolio, common systems, structures and culture positive impact on quality of life around the world.
During FY2015, have also resulted in greater volume growth from our existing plant our voluntary community investment totalled US$225 million, and equipment at lower unit costs.
comprising US$142 million in cash, in-kind support and Our Operating Model remains the foundation for our sustainable administrative costs and a US$83 million contribution to the productivity gains.
It guides how our people work together, defines BHP Billiton Foundation.
how we are organised and allows us to measure operational and Strategic approach to climate change financial performance across our business.
It also helps remove duplication, build capability and more rapidly identify and deploy Our strategic approach to climate change is underpinned best practices.
by engagement with policy makers and other stakeholders including investors, companies and non-government organisations.
To achieve functional excellence across the Company, we are We believe industry has a key role to play in climate change policy developing our people and encouraging our teams to learn from development by working with governments and other stakeholders each other.
Our focus is on creating an inclusive environment to inform the development of effective long-term policy frameworks where every employee feels they can contribute to improving that deliver a measured transition to a lower emissions economy.
We have an integrated approach to addressing climate change Increasing transparency and access to robust data across that has three key areas: mitigation, adaptation and low-emissions the organisation has improved our ability to deliver sustained technology LET.
As well as taking action to reduce emissions, improvements.
By using 1SAP as our single Company-wide adapt to the physical impacts of climate change, develop and resource planning system, our teams have access to deploy LETs and engage in the policy debate, we continue to best-in-class business processes, standard metrics and reports.
identify and assess the impacts of climate change on our portfolio.
Our focus on productivity has significantly improved operating We have a robust corporate planning process that includes testing performance at each of our Businesses.
During the year, the resilience of our portfolio and investment decisions against we delivered a nine per cent increase in Group production a range of future scenarios.
Further information on our sustainability commitments, standards Our long-term commitment to improve productivity across our and performance can be found in section 1.14 of this Annual Report.
Company continues to create significant value for shareholders.
Additional information is also available in the Sustainability Report 2015, This year, our productivity initiatives delivered US$4.1 billion which can be found online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
in productivity gains excludes Discontinued operations.
This means that over the last three years, our productivity initiatives have delivered more than US$10 billion in productivity gains.
CASE STUDY: Increased truck performance at Coppers Escondida Mine Objective: To increase ultra-class haul truck production time.
Approach: Escondida benchmarked its truck performance and maintenance activities, both internally and externally, and reviewed how it conducted truck maintenance and shift activities to identify improvement opportunities.
A range of initiatives were implemented to improve haul truck production time.
Less frequent and larger blasts were used to reduce interruptions to production.
Trucks were only taken out of production for preventative maintenance determined by equipment condition, rather than by time in service.
The mine also implemented new crib huts and shift relief, called hot seating, to keep the trucks moving.
Outcomes: Escondida has set a new internal BHP Billiton benchmark for sustainable ultra-class haul truck performance.
In FY2015, truck utilisation of available time increased to 83 per cent from 75 per cent in the previous year.
This allowed the operation to move 438 million tonnes of material, an increase of six per cent compared to FY2014.
Productivity results: During FY2015, Escondida decreased its mine production unit costs by 10 per cent through its productivity initiatives.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 17 M A R C G I O N R S n o i t a c o l l 1 Strategic Report continued 1.6.
3 Disciplined approach to capital management Our priorities for capital management remain unchanged.
A strong balance sheet The quality of our assets and adherence to our strategy has Our solid A credit rating provides flexibility and access to debt differentiated our performance and maximised shareholder capital markets.
Despite the reduction in commodity prices broadly returns by allocating capital in a disciplined manner.
over FY2015, the Group maintained a strong balance sheet and reduced net debt by five per cent to US$24.4 billion.
Improved Our diversified and high-margin portfolio delivers a higher return operating and capital productivity supported by our flexible on capital with lower volatility, when compared with many peers.
investment program generated free cash flow of US$6.3 billion.
Over the last 10 years, we have returned US$67 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and buy-backs.
During FY2015, the Group issued a three tranche Euro denominated bond under its Euro Medium Term Note Programme, comprising Many of the areas to which we direct our cash flow are 600 million Floating Rate Notes due 2020 paying interest at interconnected.
In order to make capital allocation decisions, three-month Euribor plus 35 basis points, 650 million 0.75 per cent we test each decision against a range of short-term and long-term bonds due 2022 and 750 million 1.50 per cent bonds due 2030. criteria across several scenarios.
We aim to optimise for net present The Group also priced a five-year A$1.0 billion note issue under value NPV, return on capital ROC, internal rate of return IRR and its Australian Medium Term Note Program, paying interest at margin, while remaining mindful of portfolio construction and cash 3.00 per cent due 2020. flow at risk.
No single metric can dominate the process given the potential to create imbalances and all alternatives actively compete.
In August 2014, the Group redeemed all outstanding Petrohawk Energy Corporation 7.25 per cent Senior Notes due August 2018 Our portfolio remains a key point of difference.
However, because and 6.25 per cent Senior Notes due June 2019 at the applicable it is opportunity-rich, capital discipline is more important.
The aggregate principal value of the notes redeemed By reducing annual expenditure, we have created even more was approximately US$1.8 billion.
competition for capital and we have sharpened our focus on our core commodities and our high-margin major basins.
The Group has a US$6.0 billion commercial paper program backed by a US$6.0 billion revolving credit facility.
The facility expires in Given our portfolio of long-life orebodies, we also consider the May 2020 and has a one-year extension option.
As at 30 June 2015, value of future options as we must preserve their value at low cost.
the Group had US$nil outstanding in the US commercial paper Our approach to capital management is illustrated market and the Groups cash and cash equivalents on hand were in the diagram below.
Internal competition for capital investment By reducing annual capital and exploration expenditure and increasing competition for capital within the Group, we have prioritised higher quality growth at a higher average rate of return on incremental investment.
We continue to invest selectively in those projects that are capital efficient and have high return growth.
During the year, three major projects achieved first Maximise production, namely: shareholder The Escondida Oxide Leach Area Project OLAP was completed returns in November 2014.
The Project involved the creation of a new dynamic leaching pad and mineral handling system that included several overland conveyors.
The new pad is expected to maintain oxide leaching capacity at current levels.
OLAP was approved in February 2012 with budgeted expenditure of US$721 million US$414 million BHP Billiton share and a US$212 million increase in the budget of OLAP to US$933 million US$536 million BHP Billiton share was approved in March 2014.
Expected final cost is US$899 million US$517 million BHP Billiton share.
The following factors are considered when making capital In March 2011, we approved the third expansion of the Hay Point allocation decisions: Coal Terminal.
The expansion of the terminal will deliver an additional 11 Mt of annual port capacity 100 per cent basis.
Progressive dividend The project investment has a budget of US$1.5 billion BHP Billiton remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
In January 2015, first coal was loaded The aim of this policy is to steadily increase or at least maintain through the expanded terminal and the project was the dividend per share in US dollars at each half-yearly payment.
97.6 per cent complete as at 30 June 2015.
On 25 August 2015, the Board determined a final dividend for The Escondida Organic Growth Project 1 OGP1 is a new the year of 62 US cents per share.
Together with the interim concentrator with a 152 kilotonnes per day ktpd plant.
dividend of 62 US cents per share paid to shareholders We expect this project to provide additional processing capacity on 31 March 2015, this brought the total dividend determined and allow access to high-grade ore. OGP1 was approved in for the year to 124 US cents per share, a two per cent increase over February 2012 with budgeted expenditure of US$3.8 billion the previous years full-year dividend of 121 US cents per share.
US$2.2 billion BHP Billiton share.
A US$361 million increase in the budget of OGP1 to US$4.2 billion US$ 2.4 billion Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 2013 BHP Billiton share was approved in October 2014 following Dividends determined in respect of the period US cents per share challenges associated with contractors progress.
The Project was completed in May 2015 and is currently in the commissioning Interim dividend 59.0 57.0 62.0 and ramp-up phase.
Final dividend 62.0 62.0 59.0 At the end of FY2015, BHP Billiton had four major projects under 124.0 121.0 116.0 development with a combined budget of US$7.0 billion.
Information in this section has been presented on a Continuing operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that were demerged with South32, unless otherwise noted.
Details of the contribution of the South32 assets to the Groups results are disclosed in note 29 Discontinued operations to the Financial Statements.
18 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 a l a t i p a I C V R P R N 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.6.
3 Disciplined approach to capital management continued Capital expenditure Illawarra metallurgical coal: Capital and exploration expenditure is disclosed for each Business BHP Billitons Manganese business: in the table below.
Cerro Matoso nickel operation: Cannington silver-lead-zinc mine.
2015 2014 2013 US$M US$M US$M A shareholder circular dated 16 March 2015 contained a unanimous Year ended 30 June Restated Restated recommendation from the BHP Billiton Board that shareholders 1 Capital and exploration expenditure vote in favour of the demerger resolution.
Petroleum and Potash 5,929 7,070 8,439 Simultaneous General Meetings took place in Perth and London on Copper 3,912 3,808 4,157 6 May 2015 to approve the demerger of South32 from BHP Billiton.
Iron Ore 2,048 3,118 6,196 The resolution was successful with approximately 98 per cent of votes cast being in favour.
Coal 749 2,000 3,168 Group and unallocated items 125 214 465 On 8 May 2015, BHP Billiton transferred operational management control of the assets to the South32 delegated management team.
BHP Billiton Group 12,763 16,210 22,425 On 25 May 2015, the implementation of the demerger was 1 Capital expenditure is presented on a cash basis and excludes capitalised completed, marking the formal separation of the two companies.
interest, but includes capitalised exploration.
Exploration expenditure is capitalised in accordance with our accounting policies, as set out in Eligible BHP Billiton Limited and Plc shareholders received shares note 43 Significant accounting policies to the Financial Statements.
in South32 through a pro rata, in-specie distribution, as well as retaining their existing shares in the Group.
Capital expenditure encompasses expenditure on major projects, Demerger rationale and impacts as set out in section 2.4 of this Annual Report, and capital expenditure on sustaining and other items.
The demerger simplifies BHP Billiton and enables us to further focus on generating value from our core portfolio.
This portfolio 2015 2014 2013 comprises our exceptionally large long-life petroleum, copper, US$M US$M US$M iron ore, coal and potash assets.
With a smaller set of similar Year ended 30 June Restated Restated assets, our common systems and processes enable us to identify Capital expenditure 11,947 15,224 21,104 and deploy best practice more quickly.
Exploration expenditure Having assessed a number of alternatives, the Board considered Petroleum 567 600 675 the demerger to be the preferred approach to achieving simplification of our portfolio, maximising shareholder value and Minerals 249 386 646 providing the potential for South32 assets to maximise their value Total 816 986 1,321 due to the focus of their own dedicated Board and management.
Total capital and exploration 12,763 16,210 22,425 Post-demerger, BHP Billiton remains one of the largest diversified expenditure cash basis global resources companies and in particular: Add: equity accounted investments 434 871 1,493 the largest exporter of metallurgical coal: 1 Less: capitalised deferred stripping 815 1,275 1,501 a global top three producer of iron ore: Less: non-controlling interests 1,342 1,198 995 a global top four exporter of copper concentrate: Total capital and exploration 11,040 14,608 21,422 the largest overseas investor in onshore US shale: expenditure BHP Billiton share the holder of what we believe to be one of the worlds best undeveloped potash resources.
1 Capitalised deferred stripping includes US$142 million attributable to non-controlling interests in FY2015 2014: US$243 million: 2013: US$292 million.
Our strategic priorities remain unchanged.
Consistent with our established strategy, our portfolio provides broad exposure BHP Billitons share of capital and exploration expenditure to steelmaking raw materials, copper, energy and, potentially, declined by 24 per cent during FY2015 to US$11.0 billion.
agricultural markets and will remain diversified by commodity, Our rate of investment is expected to decline to US$8.5 billion geography and market.
Disclosure of the demerged assets in this Annual Report For IFRS accounting purposes, the demerger was deemed 1.6.
4 Active management of our portfolio completed as of 8 May 2015 the date of loss of control and the demerged assets are treated as Discontinued operations We continue to concentrate our efforts on the assets and operations in BHP Billitons Financial Statements.
Unless otherwise stated, where we enjoy economies of scale and a competitive advantage.
throughout this Annual Report, financial information for FY2015 Our focus remains on our four major Businesses of Iron Ore, relating to the demerged assets is reported for the period from Petroleum, Copper, and Coal, with Potash as a potential fifth.
1 July 2014 to 8 May 2015 as Discontinued operations, while This diversified portfolio of low-cost assets, unrivalled in scale FY2015 production information relating to the demerged assets and quality, provides resilience and flexibility to enhance is reported for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 April 2015 value for shareholders.
to more closely align with BHP Billitons month-end reporting Since FY2013, we have executed a targeted divestment program, systems.
Where noted, Continuing operations refers to the assets which has included a collection of individual transactions that formed part of the BHP Billiton Group as at 30 June 2015. totalling US$7 billion and the successful demerger of a selection Comparative information for the years ended 30 June 2014 and of BHP Billiton assets with South32.
30 June 2013 has been restated for the effects of the application We will continue to simplify our portfolio towards achieving of IFRS 5 AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued BHP Billitons identified core portfolio of 19 assets across eight Operations following the demerger of South32.
The Consolidated countries and three continents.
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for Completed demerger of assets these periods are not required to be restated.
Demerger milestones On 19 August 2014, we announced our intention to create a For information relating to a description of the demerged assets and production associated with these assets, refer to sections 2.1.
7 and new company through the demerger of a selection of BHP Billiton 2.2.
2 of this Annual Report and note 29 Discontinued operations assets that included: to the Financial Statements.
BHP Billitons integrated Aluminium business: Additional information on the demerger of South32, including the Energy Coal South Africa: Shareholder Circular, is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
