1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report For FY2015: 4.4.
1 Board oversight and the the MSR for the CEO was five times annual gross pre-tax base Remuneration Committee continued salary and while he met this requirement last year, subsequent Remuneration recommendations movements in foreign exchange rates and share prices including As part of its role, Kepler Associates provided remuneration an impact of the demerger of South32 have resulted in Andrew recommendations as defined in the Australian Corporations Mackenzies shareholding being 4.4 times annual gross pre-tax Act 2001 to the Committee during the year.
Each time base salary at the end of FY2015: Kepler Associates provides a remuneration recommendation, the MSR for other members of the GMC was three times annual Kepler Associates provides a declaration that the remuneration gross pre-tax base salary and Peter Beaven, Dean Dalla Valle, recommendation was made free from undue influence by Mike Henry and Jimmy Wilson met the MSR at the end of FY2015, the individual to whom the recommendation relates.
The Board while Tony Cudmore, Tim Cutt, Geoff Healy, Daniel Malchuk considered the processes outlined above, the constraints and Athalie Williams have not yet met the MSR.
incorporated into Kepler Associates terms of engagement, the implementation of a comprehensive protocol for the Subject to securities dealing constraints, Non-executive Directors engagement of remuneration advisers and the receipt have agreed to apply at least 25 per cent of their remuneration of the declaration of no undue influence.
It is satisfied that base fees plus Committee fees to the purchase of BHP Billiton the remuneration recommendations received from Kepler shares until they achieve an MSR equivalent in value to one years Associates were made free from undue influence by any remuneration base fees plus Committee fees.
Thereafter, they must maintain at least that level of shareholding throughout their member of the KMP to whom the recommendations related.
Each Non-executive Director met the MSR at the end of Total fees paid to Kepler Associates for the above services FY2015 with the exception of Carlos Cordeiro.
Mr Cordeiro met for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 were 161,000, the MSR last year and the level of his shareholding has not changed of which 63,850 was for attendance at Committee meetings since.
However, subsequent movements in foreign exchange rates and commentary on management proposals, and a total of and share prices have reduced the value of his shareholding such 97,150 for the provision of remuneration recommendations and that he did not meet the MSR at the end of FY2015.
other technical advice and support on executive remuneration.
27 for details of share ownership information of the CEO, other members of the GMC and the Non-executive Directors 4.4.
2 Prohibition on hedging of BHP Billiton shares and equity instruments 4.4.
4 Statement of voting at the 2014 AGMs The CEO and other members of the GMC are not allowed to BHP Billitons remuneration resolutions have attracted a high level protect the value of any unvested BHP Billiton equity awards of support by shareholders.
Voting in regard to those resolutions allocated to them under employee programs, or the value put to shareholders at the 2014 AGMs is shown below.
of shares and securities held as part of meeting BHP Billitons MSR as described below.
The policy also prohibits GMC % vote % vote Votes 1 members from using unvested BHP Billiton equity awards AGM Resolution Requirement for against withheld as collateral in any financial transaction, including hedging Remuneration policy UK 97.19 2.81 29,834,918 and margin loan arrangements.
Remuneration Report UK 98.23 1.77 13,161,811 Any securities that have vested and are no longer subject to excluding Remuneration restrictions or performance conditions may be subject to hedging Policy arrangements or used as collateral, provided that consent is Remuneration Report Australia 98.02 1.98 13,127,265 obtained from BHP Billiton in advance of the employee entering whole report into the arrangement.
BHP Billiton treats compliance with Leaving entitlements Australia 97.97 2.03 13,213,709 this policy as a serious issue, and takes appropriate measures to ensure that the policy is adhered to.
Approval of grants Australia 97.02 2.98 29,928,012 to Executive Director 4.4.
3 Share ownership guidelines and the MSR 1 The sum of votes marked Votes withheld at BHP Billiton Plcs AGM and votes The share ownership guidelines and the MSR help to ensure marked Abstain at BHP Billiton Limiteds AGM.
that the interests of Directors, executives and shareholders remain aligned.
The value of equity awards and any other securities for the purposes of the MSR is the market value of the underlying shares.
Unvested employee equity awards do not qualify, and neither do any options with a market-based exercise price.
The CEO and other members of the GMC are expected to grow their holdings to the MSR from the scheduled vesting of their employee awards over time.
Under the policy, employees are not required to meet the holding requirement before awards are allocated to them.
Rather, the MSR is tested at the time that shares are to be sold.
The GMC members are entitled to sell sufficient shares to satisfy tax obligations arising from the granting, holding, vesting, exercise or sale of the employee awards or the underlying shares.
However, if a GMC member wishes to sell additional shares, they will be prohibited from doing so unless they will meet the MSR after the sale.
