1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 5.19 Performance in relation 5.20 Share capital, restrictions on transfer to environmental regulation of shares and other additional information BHP Billiton seeks to be compliant with all applicable environmental Information relating to BHP Billiton Plcs share capital structure, laws and regulations relevant to its operations.
We monitor restrictions on the holding or transfer of its securities or on the compliance on a regular basis, including through external exercise of voting rights attaching to such securities, certain and internal means, to ensure that the risk of non-compliance agreements triggered on a change of control and the existence is minimised.
of branches of BHP Billiton outside of the United Kingdom, is set out in the following sections of this Annual Report: Fines and prosecutions Section 1.4 BHP Billiton locations In FY2015, BHP Billiton received 13 fines at our operated assets, Section 5.2 Share capital and buy-back programs with a total value of US$32,454.
Section 9.3 Organisational structure Two fines totalling US$17,963 were received in respect of the Section 9.4 Material contracts Cannington silver-lead-zinc mine for contravention of permit Section 9.5 Constitution conditions at the port facility.
One fine was for particulates from Section 9.6 Share ownership a dust collector baghouse stack being above release limit, and the other fine was for failure to notify the event in the timeframe Section 9.11 Government regulations required.
Actions including real-time monitoring and process Note 17 Share capital and note 25 Employee share ownership interlocks were implemented to prevent such an incident recurring.
plans to the Financial Statements.
BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance received two fines totalling Further details of all unvested equity awards as at the date of this US$11,371 for separate non-compliances at the Caval Ridge Directors Report, including shares issued upon exercise of equity Mine and Saraji Mine.
Both incidents were related to uncontrolled awards, are set out in note 25 Employee share ownership plans releases of mine-affected water that did not meet the conditions to the Financial Statements.
Details of movements in share capital of each operations Environmental Authority governed by the during and since the end of the financial year are set out in note 17 Queensland Environmental Protection Act 1994.
Corrective and Share capital to the Financial Statements.
preventative actions have been implemented to prevent these The Directors Report is approved in accordance with a resolution events recurring.
The nine other fines, totalling US$3,120, were levied in North America and South Africa where our operations were cited for activities including exceeding discharge quality levels, unauthorised land disturbance, failure to update facility contact information and a delinquent mechanical integrity test.
The impacted assets are reviewing measures, or have implemented actions, to prevent these incidents from occurring in the future.
Jac Nasser AO Chairman Greenhouse gas emissions The UK Companies Act 2006 requires the Company, to the extent practicable, to obtain relevant information on the Companys annual quantity of greenhouse gas emissions, which is reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
The Companys total FY2015 greenhouse gas emissions and intensity are set out in sections 1.10 and 1.14.4 of this Annual Report.
Andrew Mackenzie Further information in relation to environmental performance, Chief Executive Officer including environmental regulation, can be found in section 1.14 Dated: 10 September 2015 of this Annual Report and in the Sustainability Report, which is available online at w ww.
