3 Corporate Governance Statement continued Executive Director Directors provide anonymous feedback on their peers performance and individual contributions to the Board, which The Executive Director, Andrew Mackenzie, is not considered is passed on to the relevant Director via the Chairman.
In respect independent because of his executive responsibilities.
Mr Mackenzie of the Chairmans performance, Directors provide feedback does not hold directorships in any other company included in the directly to either Dr Schubert or the Senior Independent Director.
External independent advisers are engaged to assist with these Conflicts of interest processes, as necessary.
The involvement of an independent The UK Companies Act 2006 requires that BHP Billiton Directors third party has assisted in the evaluation processes being rigorous, avoid a situation where they have, or can have, an unauthorised fair and ensuring continuous improvement in the operation direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, of the Board and committees, as well as the contributions with the Companys interests, unless approved by non-interested of individual Directors.
In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, Director evaluation BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association allow the Directors to The evaluation of individual Directors focuses on the contribution authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate.
of the Director to the work of the Board and the expectations A procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts and of Directors as specified in the Groups governance framework.
for the consideration and, if appropriate, the authorisation of them The performance of individual Directors is assessed against by non-conflicted Directors.
The Nomination and Governance a range of criteria, including the ability of the Director to: Committee supports the Board in this process, both by reviewing consistently take the perspective of creating shareholder value: requests from Directors for authorisation of situations of actual or potential conflict and making recommendations to the Board, contribute to the development of strategy: and by regularly reviewing any situations of actual or potential understand the major risks affecting the Group: conflict that have previously been authorised by the Board, and provide clear direction to management: making recommendations regarding whether the authorisation contribute to Board cohesion: remains appropriate.
In addition, in accordance with Australian commit the time required to fulfil the role and perform their law, if a situation arises for consideration in which a Director has responsibilities effectively: a material personal interest, the affected Director takes no part listen to and respect the ideas of fellow Directors and members in decision-making.
Provisions for Directors interests are set of management.
out in the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited.
Board effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its committees 3.11 Board evaluation is assessed against the accountabilities set down in the Board The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Governance Document and each committees terms of reference.
membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
Matters considered in evaluations include: The Board evaluates its performance through a combination the effectiveness of discussion and debate at Board and of both internal peer and externally facilitated assessments.
committee meetings: Contemporary performance measures are considered an the effectiveness of the Boards and committees processes important part of this process.
Directors performance is and relationship with management: also measured against their individual development plans.
the quality and timeliness of meeting agendas, Board and The Board conducts regular evaluations of its performance, committee papers and secretariat support: the performance of its committees, the Chairman, individual the composition of the Board and each committee, focusing Directors and the governance processes that support the Boards on the blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge work.
The Board evaluation process comprises both assessment of the Group and its diversity, including geographic location, and review, as summarised in the diagram below.
This includes nationality and gender.
analysis of how the Board and its Directors are functioning, The process is managed by the Chairman, with feedback on the the time spent by the Board considering matters and whether Chairmans performance being provided to him by Dr Schubert.
the terms of reference of the Board committees have been met, as well as compliance with the Board Governance Document.
Information about the performance review process for executives is set out in section 3.16.
The evaluation considers the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company and the Board, Evaluations conducted in FY2015 its overall diversity, including gender, and how the Board works During the year under review, the Board conducted an internal together as a unit.
In addition, each year the Board, with the review of compliance with the Board Governance Document: assistance of the Nomination and Governance Committee, an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board committees: conducts a review of the performance of each Director seeking and an externally facilitated evaluation of individual Directors.
re-election and uses the results of that review when considering Board review whether to recommend the re-election of each Director.
As the Board has adopted a policy of annual election, this effectively The internal review focused on compliance with the Board means that all Directors are subject to a performance review Governance Document.
The review of the Board included annually should they wish to remain on the Board.
analysis of matters considered by the Board, matters referred by management, monitoring and assurance, and site visits.
The review indicated that the Board is continuing to function effectively and in accordance with the terms of the Board Governance Document.
Evaluation process Assessment Review Year one: Each year, review of: Committee and individual Director assessment.
Board and committees for compliance with the Year two: Board Governance Document and committee terms of reference.
May be internally or externally facilitated assessment.
Our approach is to conduct an externally facilitated assessment of the Board or Directors and committees at least every three years.
