1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.9 Remuneration Our Remuneration Committee recognises that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategy and our ongoing performance, aligning the activities of management to the interests of shareholders, and in supporting Our Charter.
Remuneration at BHP Billiton Our approach The key principles of our remuneration policy, which remain We have made no changes to the underlying approach to unchanged from FY2014, are to: remuneration in the last year.
It is an approach that BHP Billiton has practised for over 10 years and we believe it continues to support the execution of the Groups business strategy serve our executives and shareholders well.
The remuneration in accordance with a risk framework that is appropriate outcomes continue to appropriately reflect the performance for the organisation: of the Group, of the Businesses and of individuals.
provide competitive rewards to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled executives willing to work around the world: While our approach has been given strong support by apply demanding performance measures, including key shareholders, with a vote for the Remuneration Report in excess of 97 per cent at last years AGMs, and indeed over 96 per cent financial and non-financial measures of performance: in each of the prior five years, the Remuneration Committee and link a significant component of pay to our performance the Board will continue to listen and give attention to feedback and the creation of value for our shareholders from and views from shareholders on the Groups approach to pay.
relative outperformance: ensure remuneration arrangements are equitable and Summary facilitate the deployment of people around the Group: The Committee remains confident that our philosophy and limit severance payments on termination to pre-established policies on remuneration are appropriate to support long-term contractual arrangements which do not commit us to making value creation, and the outcomes for FY2015 continue to any unjustified payments.
demonstrate the alignment between remuneration and performance at BHP Billiton.
Link to strategy Our Charter sets out our values, placing health and safety first, For more information on our remuneration policies and the remuneration outcomes for members of the GMC and Non-executive upon which the Remuneration Committee places great weight Directors, refer to section 4 of this Annual Report.
in the determination of performance-based remuneration outcomes for BHP Billitons executives.
Our Charter also sets out our purpose, our strategy and how we measure success.
The Committee is guided by those measures in supporting our executives in taking a long-term approach to decision-making in order to build a sustainable and value-adding business.
Our remuneration policy and strategy is focused on long-term success and minimising short-term behaviours or results that would jeopardise longer-term outcomes.
We want executive remuneration to reflect the Groups performance and share price over an extended period and this is primarily achieved with the equity component of the Short-Term Incentive award being deferred for a two-year period, and with Total Shareholder Return under the Long-Term Incentive Plan being measured over a five-year performance period.
