1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.12 Our Businesses The description of our Businesses and a discussion of their performance are set out below.
For further information on our assets, production, results and reserves and resources refer to section 2 of this Annual Report.
For further information on the financial results of our Businesses, refer to note 1 Segment reporting to the Financial Statements.
1.12.1 Revenue and Underlying EBIT performance by Business The following tables provide a summary of Revenue and Underlying EBIT for FY2015 and the two prior corresponding periods of our Businesses and the Group.
Our use of Underlying EBIT is explained in section 1.11.1 of this Annual Report.
Underlying EBIT is one of the financial measures used to monitor the financial performance of our overall strategy and is disclosed by segment in note 1 Segment reporting to the Financial Statements.
Information in this section has been presented on a Continuing operations basis to exclude the contribution from assets that were demerged with South32, unless otherwise noted.
Details of the contribution of the South32 assets to the Groups results are disclosed in note 29 Discontinued operations to the Financial Statements.
Group and business level information is reported on a statutory basis in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Revenue excludes revenue from investments accounted for using the equity method.
Underlying EBIT includes net finance costs and taxation expense of investments accounted for using the equity method.
2 Comprises Group Functions, other unallocated operations including Nickel West previously disclosed in the former Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business, consolidation adjustments and external sales of freight and fuel to third parties.
Year ended 30 June 2015 compared with year ended 30 June 2014 Underlying EBIT for FY2015 was US$11.9 billion, a decrease of 46 per cent compared to the prior year.
A significant decline in commodity prices reduced Underlying EBIT by US$16.4 billion.
This was offset in part by a reduction in operating cash costs of US$2.7 billion and the generation of productivity-led volume efficiencies of US$1.2 billion.
A US$142 million reduction in capitalised exploration expenditure contributed to the delivery of US$4.1 billion of productivity gains during the period, two years ahead of our FY2017 target.
Non-cash charges and one-off items decreased Underlying EBIT by US$1.3 billion and US$456 million respectively, but were offset by the favourable impact of a stronger US dollar of US$1.6 billion, reduction of price-linked costs of US$1.2 billion and the impact of additional growth volumes of US$1.8 billion.
The use of the term operating cash costs is described in section 1.15.3 of this Annual Report.
