9 Shareholder information continued Demerger Implementation Deed 9.3.
2 DLC structure continued BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited entered Joint Electorate Actions into an Implementation Deed on 17 March 2015 to facilitate the Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited demerger of South32 Limited from the BHP Billiton Group.
Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have implemented special voting arrangements so that the shareholders The Implementation Deed sets out: of both companies vote together as a single decision-making body the conditions to the demerger: and on matters affecting the shareholders of each company in similar certain steps required to be taken by each of BHP Billiton Limited, ways such matters are referred to as Joint Electorate Actions.
BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited to implement the demerger.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Implementation of the demerger was completed on 25 May 2015 Limited share will effectively have the same voting rights as each and resulted in the formation of an independent listed company, BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint Electorate Actions.
South32 Limited, with a portfolio of assets producing alumina, A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution aluminium, coal, manganese, nickel, silver, lead and zinc.
or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable In accordance with the Implementation Deed, the demerger listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited was effected through a distribution of South32 shares to eligible and also of BHP Billiton Plc.
Both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc by way shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special of an in-specie dividend by each of BHP Billiton Limited and Voting Share vote as a single class and, in the case of BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Plc.
Each eligible shareholder of BHP Billiton Limited Plc, the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the and BHP Billiton Plc received one South32 share for each share BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share vote as a single class.
in BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc as applicable that Class Rights Actions it held as at the applicable record date for the demerger.
In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class 9.5 Constitution Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The effect of the of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, identical.
Where the term an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
BHP Billiton is used in this description of the Constitution and Articles of Association, it can be read to mean either BHP Billiton These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
documents of the two companies, the DLC Structure Sharing Agreement, the BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed and Provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles rights attaching to a specially created Special Voting Share issued of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can be amended only where such by each company and held in each case by a Special Voting amendment is approved by special resolution either: Company.
The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment legally and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or Cross guarantees otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions a Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and voting to the benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee rights in section 9.3.
and the BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts 9.5.
1 Directors were owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc The management and control of the business and affairs on a combined basis.
of BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which Restrictions on takeovers of one company only may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton, other than those The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc which are required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except in a general meeting.
with the consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one company without having made an equivalent offer to the 9.5.
2 Power to issue securities shareholders of both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles breach of these provisions would include withholding of dividends, of Association, issue any shares or other securities including voting restrictions and the compulsory divestment of shares to the redeemable shares with preferred, deferred or other special extent a shareholder and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
rights, obligations or restrictions as and when the Board may determine and on any other terms the Board considers appropriate, provided that: 9.4 Material contracts any such issue does not affect any special rights conferred DLC agreements on the holders of any shares: On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited any such issue is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association: of a DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are as they were then known entered into the following agreements expressed at the date of issue.
designed to place the shareholders of both companies in a position where they effectively have an interest in a single group that combines the assets, and is subject to all the liabilities, of both companies: BHP Billiton DLC Structure Sharing Agreement BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which they operate are described in section 9.3 of this Annual Report.
304 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information A person may be nominated by shareholders as a Director 9.5.
3 Restrictions on voting by Directors of BHP Billiton if: A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement a shareholder of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc provides or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal a valid notice of the nomination: and interest.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a meeting the person nominated by the shareholder consents to his in relation to any resolution on which he or she is not entitled to vote.
or her nomination as Director, In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has a duty in each case, at least 40 business days before the earlier to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct of the date of the general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc and the or indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with the interests corresponding general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited.
The person of the company.
The duty is not infringed, if among other things, nominated as a Director may be elected to the Board by ordinary the situation is authorised by non-interested Directors.
The Articles resolution passed in a general meeting.
of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable the Board to authorise a matter that might otherwise involve a Director breaching his or her Under the Articles of Association if a person is validly nominated for duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
An interested Director may not election as a Director at a general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited, vote or be counted towards a quorum for a resolution authorising the Directors of BHP Billiton must nominate that person as a Director such a situation.
Where the Board gives such authorisation, the at the corresponding general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc.
An equivalent Board may prohibit, or may establish regulations which prohibit, requirement is included in the Constitution which requires any person the relevant Director from voting on any matter relating to the validly nominated for election as a Director of BHP Billiton Plc to be conflict.
The Board has adopted procedures to manage these nominated as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited.
Retirement of Directors Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, and be In 2011, the Board adopted a policy consistent with the UK Corporate counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution concerning any Governance Code, under which all Directors must, if they wish of the following matters, namely where the material personal interest: to remain on the Board, seek re-election by shareholders annually.
arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and This policy took effect at the 2011 Annual General Meetings AGMs, is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: and replaced the previous system, as set out in the Constitution and Articles of Association, under which Directors were required arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at least every of BHP Billiton: three years.
relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any A Director may be removed by BHP Billiton in accordance with obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the shareholders: applicable law and must vacate his or her office as a Director arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given in certain circumstances as set out in the Constitution and Articles an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed of Association.
There is no requirement for a Director to retire loan, to BHP Billiton: on reaching a certain age.
arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation 9.5.
6 Rights attaching to shares in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: Dividend rights relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends on shares body corporate the insurer: may only be paid out of net assets, provided that the payment is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders as a whole and the relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate payment of the dividend does not materially prejudice the companys in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract ability to pay its creditors.
The Constitution and Articles of Association relating to such an indemnity: or provide that payment of any dividend may be made in any manner, is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit by any means and in any currency determined by the Board.
of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited 9.5.
4 Loans by Directors or BHP Billiton Plc determined that dividend, until claimed or, in Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with the case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according to law.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed or without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and after a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend was determined or became due for payment shall be forfeited underwrite or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may and shall revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
be interested without being disqualified as a Director and without Voting rights being liable to account to BHP Billiton for any commission or profit.
Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders can, in the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless 9.5.
5 Appointment and retirement of Directors a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation to Appointment of Directors the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman The Constitution and Articles of Association provide that otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting or is otherwise a person may be appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton by the required as outlined below : existing Directors of BHP Billiton or elected by the shareholders the Chairman: in a general meeting.
any shareholder under the law: or Any person appointed as a Director of BHP Billiton by the existing the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
Directors will hold office only until the next general meeting at which the Board proposes, or the Constitution or Articles require that, an election of Directors be held.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 305 9 Shareholder information continued Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits 9.5.
6 Rights attaching to shares continued The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation to the Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc shareholders can, participation in the profits available for distribution, are as follows: in the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, is demanded by any of the following except in relation to the election in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman otherwise class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential dividend determines, the adjournment of a meeting or is otherwise required Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per annum, to be as outlined below : paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date the Chairman: shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in England, on the not less than five members present in person or by proxy first business day following such date in each year.
Payments of and entitled to vote: Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders on the register a member or members present in person or by proxy and at any date selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the representing not less than five per cent of the total voting rights relevant fixed dividend date.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share.
shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other As described under the heading Equalisation of economic and classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend voting rights in section 9.3.
2 of this Annual Report, certain matters may be decided as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions.
of US$0.01 per annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
Matters considered by shareholders at an AGM of BHP Billiton Limited Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference shares or BHP Billiton Plc constitute Joint Electorate Actions and shall and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in priority to any therefore be decided on a poll.
Therefore, in practice, generally payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of all items of business at AGMs are decided by way of a poll.
the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as the Board may decide to pay thereon.
In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which the shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share is entitled shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
to vote shall be decided on a poll.
For the purposes of determining which shareholders are entitled 9.5.
7 Rights on a return of assets on liquidation to attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the assets Limited, and how many votes such shareholder may cast, the of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution among relevant company will specify in any notice of meeting a time, not shareholders, after giving effect to the payment of all prior ranking more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by which amounts owed to all creditors and holders of preference shares, a shareholder must be entered on the Register of Shareholders and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, shall be applied in order to have the right to attend or vote at the relevant meeting.
in paying to the holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy to attend, vote or speak Share and the Equalisation Share if any an amount of up to A$2.00 at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited as appropriate on each such share, on an equal priority with any amount paid on their behalf must deposit the relevant form appointing a proxy to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and any in accordance with the instructions contained in any notice of surplus remaining shall be applied in making payments solely to meeting, so as to be received in the specified manner not less the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting with their entitlements.
to which the appointment of a proxy relates.
On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject to Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors of BHP Billiton Plc and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, the The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, are as follows: assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding-up shall be distributed to the holders of shares in the following order of priority: The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
up on the cumulative preference shares held by them and accrual, if any, of the Preferential Dividend, whether such dividend has Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date of but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes commencement of the winding-up.
of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared or paid thereon.
To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above and the Equalisation Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary remaining after the distribution above of an equal amount for shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal each BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special amounts per share.
Voting Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to a maximum in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
306 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 9.5.
12 Conditions governing general meetings If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary any preference shares, the preference shares may be issued on modifications to any special meeting of any class of shareholders the terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of either that may be held.
Therefore, the following information relates or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be equally to general meetings and any special meeting of any class redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, the applicable laws call a general meeting of the shareholders at the Board determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
time and place or places and in the manner determined by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting of BHP Billiton The preference shares are to confer on the holders: except where entitled under law to do so.
Any Director may convene the right on redemption and on a winding-up to payment in cash a general meeting whenever the Director thinks fit.
General meetings in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount paid or can also be cancelled, postponed or adjourned, where permitted by agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference shares: law or the Constitution or Articles of Association.
Notice of a general ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any dividends meeting must be given to each shareholder entitled to vote at the accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: and meeting and such notice of meeting must be given in the form the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other and manner in which the Board thinks fit.
Five shareholders of the class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
relevant company present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum for a meeting.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend and cast There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association a vote at a general meeting of BHP Billiton may appoint a person of BHP Billiton Plc, although as noted above in section 9.5.
2 as a proxy to attend and vote for the shareholder in accordance of this Annual Report, BHP Billiton can issue preference shares with applicable law.
which are subject to a right of redemption on terms the Board considers appropriate.
13 Limitations of rights to own securities 9.5.
9 Capital calls Neither the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited nor the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc impose any limitations on the Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, rights to own securities other than restrictions that reflect the the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all takeovers codes under relevant Australian and UK law.
In addition, monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
imposes a number of conditions that restrict foreign ownership Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the of Australian-based companies.
manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place Share control limits imposed by the Constitution and the Articles for payment.
A call is considered to have been made at the time of Association, as well as relevant laws, are described in sections when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
14 Documents on display Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers You can consult reports and other information about BHP Billiton of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge its Limited that it has filed pursuant to the rules of the Australian undertaking, property, assets both present and future and all Securities Exchange ASX at w w w. asx.
You can consult uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and to issue debentures reports and other information filed for publication by BHP Billiton Plc and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority at the Authoritys any debt, liability or obligation of BHP Billiton or of any third party.
document viewing facility the National Storage Mechanism at w w w. morningstar.
Information filed on the ASX, 9.5.
11 Changes to rights of shareholders or pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority is not incorporated Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either BHP Billiton by reference into this Annual Report.
The documents referred Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied whether as a Joint to in this Annual Report as being available on our website, Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action where such variation w w w. bhpbilliton.
com, are not incorporated by reference and is approved both: do not form part of this Annual Report.
by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file annual and special special resolution: and reports and other information with the US Securities and Exchange by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, Commission SEC.
These filings are available on the SEC website either by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting at w w w. se c. go v. You may also read and copy any document that of the holders of the issued shares of the class affected, either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs public or with the written consent of members with at least reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
75 per cent of the votes of that class.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the SEC website at w w w. sec.
go v for further information on the public reference room.
