1 Strategic Report continued 1.13 Our people Enabling our organisation to realise its potential through our people is fundamental to our success.
We are focused on facilitating a culture where our employees are provided with opportunities to develop, are valued and are encouraged to contribute toward making work safer, simpler and more productive.
Achieving this in a focused and collaborative way will mean we can deliver greater value to our shareholders.
1.13.1 Employees and contractors Our Charter enables us to align our people around a common purpose and values, as well as provide clear guidance for how we do business and the way in which we work, wherever we are based in the world.
The table below provides the average number of employees and contractors over the last three financial years.
2015 2015 Continuing Discontinued a a b b Year ended 30 June operations operations 2014 2013 Employees 29,670 13,159 47,044 46,892 Contractors 50,698 13,352 76,759 79,330 Total 80,368 26,511 123,803 126,222 The table below shows the gender composition of our workforce, senior leaders and the Board over the last three financial years.
2015 2015 Continuing Discontinued a a b b Year ended 30 June operations operations 2014 2013 Male employees 24,487 11,331 39,517 38,920 Female employees 5,183 1,828 7,527 7,972 Female employees % 17 14 16 17 c Male senior leaders 293 85 317 326 c Female senior leaders 62 19 55 40 Female senior leaders % 17 18 15 11 Male Board members 10 12 11 d Female Board members 2 2 2 Female Board members % 17 14 15 a For a description of the South32 demerger and reporting of Continuing and Discontinued operations, see sections 1.3.
7 of this Annual Report and note 29 Discontinued operations to the Financial Statements.
b These figures have not been restated for the purposes of the South32 demerger or reporting of Continuing and Discontinued operations.
c For UK law purposes, we are required to show information for senior managers, which is defined to include both senior leaders and any persons who are directors of any subsidiary company even if they are not senior leaders.
In FY2015, 355 senior leaders comprise the top people in the organisation.
There are 50 directors of subsidiary companies who are not senior leaders, comprising 36 males and 14 females.
Therefore, for UK law purposes, the total number of senior managers is 329 males and 76 females 19 per cent female.
d For information relating to changes to the Board following year-end please refer to section 3.1 of this Annual Report.
46 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.13.1 Employees and contractors continued The tables below provide a breakdown of the average number of employees across the Group, in accordance with our reporting requirements under the UK Companies Act 2006.
The calculation includes the Executive Director, 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies, and our share of joint operations, for each of the past three financial years.
Employees of equity accounted entities are not included.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
Employees of businesses acquired or disposed of during a particular year are included for the period of ownership.
a a Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 2013 Average number of employees for Continuing operations Petroleum and Potash 4,224 4,207 4,449 Copper 9,138 9,414 9,765 Iron Ore 7,483 8,035 6,883 Coal 5,579 6,160 6,006 Group and unallocated 3,246 3,687 4,054 Total average number of employees for Continuing operations 29,670 31,503 31,157 Total average number of employees from Discontinued operations 13,159 15,541 15,735 Total average number of employees 42,829 47,044 46,892 a These figures have not been restated for the purposes of the South32 demerger or reporting of Continuing and Discontinued operations.
The table below provides a breakdown of our average number of employees by geographic region for each of the last three financial years.
Changes in market conditions, and our business transformation programs focused on improving efficiencies and driving greater productivity have resulted in a decrease in our workforce requirements.
Additionally, the deferral of some projects has had a consequential reduction in the workforce required for such projects.
The FY2015 reductions were predominately in our contractor workforce, primarily in our Petroleum and Potash, Iron Ore and Coal Businesses.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 47 1 Strategic Report continued 1.13.2 Employee policies and engagement At BHP Billiton, our people are fundamental to our success.
BHP Billiton is committed to creating a diverse workforce and Our people strategy focuses on developing our future leaders, inclusive work environment in which every employee is respected, engaging and supporting our high-performance workforce, and treated fairly and embraced for their unique skills, experiences continuing to build a diverse team and inclusive workplace culture.
Discrimination on any basis, including disability, is not acceptable.
In instances where employees require support Our people strategy reflects our desire to have a highly motivated for a disability, we work with them to identify roles that meet their team and the importance of building effective leadership and skill, experience and capability, and offer retraining where required.
deep functional expertise across our workforce to enable Where practical to do so, flexible work practices are offered, taking productivity.
We strongly believe that having employees who into account the needs of the employee and those of the particular are engaged and connected to our organisation reinforces workplace.
The employment packages under our remuneration our shared purpose, aligned to Our Charter, and will result in policy, which must comply with local regulations, are aligned to our a more harmonious workplace.
business requirements and are designed to be sufficiently attractive An important component of our people strategy is how we enable to recruit and retain highly capable and experienced candidates.
our leaders to step up and drive greater productivity.
In FY2015, Our employee share purchase plan, Shareplus, is available to a new leadership development framework, Leading the Future, all permanent full-time and part-time employees, and those on was developed and implemented to address the findings of our fixed-term contracts, except where local regulations limit operation FY2013 employee survey.
Based on the premise that leadership of the scheme.
In these instances, alternate arrangements are drives culture and culture drives performance, the framework is in place.
As at 30 June 2015, 14,077 employees were participants globally consistent, sustainable and designed to build a distinctive in Shareplus.
Short-term and long-term incentive schemes also BHP Billiton leadership capability.
The first program introduced operate across the Group.
Rewards for eligible individuals are was Leading Step Up, a global approach to shifting our culture predicated on the need to meet targets relating to the Groups in the areas of employee engagement, the way we lead change, performance in areas such as health, safety and achievement and how we develop our people.
Targeted at all frontline people of financial measures and on the personal performance leaders in our operations, Group Functions and Marketing, Leading of each employee.
Step Up is delivered locally by BHP Billiton leaders, taught through practical everyday routines, and reinforced with regular feedback 1.13.3 Inclusion and diversity at BHP Billiton and coaching.
To ensure continuous improvement, the program will be measured through local observation and feedback Our Charter and Human Resources GLDs provide guidance discussions, and through our annual employee surveys.
Leading on all aspects of our human resource management, including the Future will continue to be implemented across the business our approach to inclusion and diversity.
We believe that an inclusive work environment and a diverse Integral to achieving effective employee engagement is our workforce, where the unique skills, experiences and perspectives approach to communication.
We believe communication is a of our people are embraced, is pivotal to sustaining performance two-way process that we undertake through a variety of channels, and further increasing our productivity.
At BHP Billiton, we celebrate including face-to-face, the internet, intranet, email, newsletters, diversity in a broad sense, including differences in thought, online collaboration forums and other means designed to cater perspectives, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, age and for the local environment.
Annually we seek feedback from our experience.
In relation to gender, the Board had a goal of increasing employees via an Employee Perception Survey.
The findings from the number of women on the Board to three by the end of CY2015.
these surveys inform our HR practices and are used to measure This has now been achieved with the announcement on 14 August and track people-related performance.
2015 that Anita Frew has been appointed to the Board effective Our Charter, the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and Human 15 September 2015 and will stand for election at the 2015 AGMs.
Resources GLDs prescribe what we will do and the behaviours Each financial year the Board considers, approves and monitors that we expect of those who work for, or on behalf of, BHP Billiton.
progress on the Groups performance objectives.
More details All of these documents are accessible to employees.
Also, our are set out below.
employees can access our Annual Reports either via the internet or hard copy and receive regular communications on BHP Billiton Our approach to inclusion and diversity is underpinned by the goals and performance, as well as on other important issues such following principles: as health and safety, the environment and the Code of Business a diverse workforce and an inclusive environment are necessary Conduct.
Dispute and grievance handling processes exist to to the delivery of our strategy that is predicated on diversification address issues across the Company.
A business conduct advisory by commodity, geography and market: service, EthicsPoint, operates worldwide to allow concerns to be our aspiration is to have a workforce that best represents raised about conduct that is out of step with Our Charter values, the communities in which our assets are located and our our policies and procedures or legislation.
employees live: To help our people focus on clear goals, deliver our strategic and actions that support our inclusion and diversity objectives operational priorities and align behaviour to Our Charter, in FY2015, should be consistent with our established approach to talent, 86 per cent of our total number of employees participated in a performance and reward: formal performance management process, including 86 per cent achieving an appropriate level of diversity is facilitated by line of our operators and support staff.
This process also provides the leadership and structured programs that support employees opportunity for employees to receive feedback and coaching, from an early career stage in developing the necessary skills and identify skills and capabilities requiring further development.
and experiences for leadership roles: Due to industrial agreements, not all our employees are able to creating an inclusive work environment will require every participate in individual performance or reward programs.
employee and leader to embrace diversity and act in a way that is consistent with Our Charter: measurable objectives in support of inclusion and diversity will be transparent, fit for purpose and focus on i engaging, enabling and developing our workforce and ii establishing appropriate representation goals.
48 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.13.3 Inclusion and diversity at BHP Billiton continued Progress against measurable objectives A summary of the three objectives committed to in FY2015 and progress to date are set out below.
Each Business, Group Function and Marketing will be evaluated on progress in executing the measurable objectives that form part of its multi-year diversity plan.
As in previous years, monitoring and tracking performance against inclusion and diversity plans was undertaken as part of the Groups internal compliance requirements.
Performance for each Business, Group Function and Marketing was evaluated against FY2015 measurable objectives and the results of these evaluations were taken into account in determining bonus remuneration.
Execute the inclusion and diversity strategy and actions approved by the GMC.
Our Businesses, Group Functions and Marketing executed the GMC approved inclusion and diversity plan.
During the reporting period: Our CEO and senior management across the organisation reinforced the Companys commitment to inclusion and diversity through internal and external communication channels, including leadership messages, town hall meetings and participation in external industry events.
Our CEO and the executive team participated in an Inclusive Leadership and Unconscious Bias development experience.
Key content was also included in the BHP Billiton Group-wide Leadership Development Program, Leading Step Up, seeking to strengthen the ability of all people leaders to engage, lead change and develop our people.
A Senior Executive Sponsorship program for female talent was launched.
In addition, Businesses continued executing their female mentoring programs.
These initiatives have contributed to increasing female representation in pipelines to manager and above level roles.
After successful pilot programs during FY2014, flexible work arrangements were implemented in some Businesses, Group Functions and Marketing.
Implementation was supported by information and engagement sessions led by line managers.
Initiatives to keep employees engaged while on parental leave were successfully implemented.
These included keep in touch meetings with employees during their parental leave and parental coaching sessions for managers.
Initiatives to develop and promote diverse talent continued to be deployed across different regions.
Key initiatives included career panel discussions, talent discussions sessions for diverse employees and implementing inclusion of diverse candidates for vacant roles.
Actions to increase representation of Indigenous peoples including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in our workforce continued to be executed.
Actions included targeted resourcing strategies, training programs and integration initiatives to broaden their employment opportunities.
From our baseline in 2010, female representation increased by i 13 per cent in manager and senior leadership roles to a 21 per cent and ii two per cent in our overall workforce representation to 17 per cent.
We remain committed to increasing overall female representation, with a specific focus on operational areas.
In FY2015, female representation in our graduate intake increased by 7.6 per cent at a global level to 42 per cent and by b 10 per cent to 46 per cent in Australia.
Representation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in the graduate intake increased by six per cent to 11 per cent.
Demonstrate year-on-year improvement in creating a work environment of inclusion, as measured by our employee survey index.
As part of our employee survey, we gauge employees perceptions of feeling valued and heard.
Results, together with tools and materials to assist action planning and improvement, were cascaded to business leaders and line managers.
Results demonstrate a three per cent increase from last year.
a These figures represent outcomes for Continuing operations.
For Discontinued operations, female representation in manager and senior leadership roles was 17 per cent totalling 19 per cent for the Group for FY2015 and female representation for the overall Discontinued operations workforce was 14 per cent totalling 16 per cent for the Group for FY2015.
b These figures represent outcomes for the total Group including Discontinued operations.
In relation to Discontinued operations, three per cent of these graduates from the total Group were transferred to South32 as part of the demerger.
Continuous improvement In FY2016, we will continue to focus on creating a more inclusive work environment and on enhancing our gender and diversity profile.
We will take the following steps to achieve this commitment: demonstrate progress against key objectives to improve the diversity of our workforce profile with particular emphasis on increasing female representation year-on-year, both overall and in leadership roles: demonstrate year-on-year improvement in creating a work environment of inclusion, as measured by our employee survey index.
As in previous years, each Business, Group Function and Marketing will be evaluated on progress in executing the measurable objectives that form part of their scorecards and appraisal commitments.
Successful completion of these objectives will be taken into account in determining bonus remuneration.
Progress against each years measurable objectives will continue to be tracked as part of the Groups internal compliance requirements and disclosed in the Annual Report.
