8 Glossary continued Proved Ore Reserves 8.2 Non-mining, oil and gas terms A Proved Ore Reserve represents the highest confidence category 1SAP of reserve estimate and implies a high degree of confidence 1SAP is a business-led initiative to achieve Company-wide alignment in geological and grade continuity, and the consideration of our business critical data and processes, supported by one of the Modifying Factors.
The style of mineralisation or other integrated system SAP.
This single system provides us access factors could mean that Proved Ore Reserves are not achievable to common data and streamlines common processes.
in some deposits JORC Code, 2012.
Implies the highest degree of geological, technical and economic confidence in the estimate A$ at the level of production increments used to support mine Australian dollars being the currency of the Commonwealth planning and production scheduling.
Qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator ADR American Depositary Receipt A qualified petroleum reserves and resources evaluator, Instruments that trade on the NYSE.
as defined in Chapter 19 of the ASX Listing Rules.
ADS American Depositary Share Reserve life A share issued under a deposit agreement that has been created Current stated Ore Reserves estimate divided by the current to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies approved nominated production rate as at the end of the and trade them on the stock exchanges in the United States.
One ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Similarly ROM one ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, Run of mine product mined in the course of regular which are the instruments that trade on the NYSE.
ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission SACNASP The Australian Government agency that enforces laws relating South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions.
to companies, securities, financial services and credit in order SAIMM to protect consumers, investors and creditors.
The Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
ASX Australian Securities Exchange Solvent extraction ASX is a multi-asset class vertically integrated exchange group A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution that functions as a market operator, clearing house and payments by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, system facilitator.
It oversees compliance with its operating rules, leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent promotes standards of corporate governance among Australias by further treatment.
listed companies and helps educate retail investors.
Spud Australian Tax Treaty Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
A tax convention between Australia and the United States as to the avoidance of double taxation.
SP Stockpile An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand BHP Billiton slackens or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment Being both companies in the Dual Listed Company structure, is incomplete or temporarily unable to process the mine output: BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
any heap of material formed to create a buffer for loading or other BHP Billiton Limited share purposes or material dug and piled for future use.
A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
Supergene Sulphide BHP Billiton Limited shareholders Supergene is a term used to describe near-surface processes The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
and their products, formed at low temperature and pressure by the activity of descending water.
Supergene sulphide is mainly formed BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share of chalcocite and covellite and is amenable to heap leaching.
A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by Tailings shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor to be BHP Billiton Plc share treated further or remain after the required metals and minerals A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
BHP Billiton Plc shareholders TLP Tension leg platform The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
A vertically moored floating facility for production of oil and gas.
BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share Total Coal Reserves A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by Run of mine Coal Reserves as outputs from the mining activities.
shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
Total Ore Reserves Board Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
Total Mineral Resources Business The sum of Inferred, Indicated and Measured Mineral Resources.
Refers to one of BHP Billitons Petroleum and Potash: Copper: Unconventional Petroleum Resources Iron Ore: Coal: Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Groups formed in May 2013.
Collectively, they are referred Hydrocarbon accumulations which are generally pervasive in to as the Businesses.
nature and may be continuous throughout a large area requiring 1 specialised extraction technologies to produce or recover.
CEO Examples include, but are not limited to coalbed methane, Chief Executive Officer.
basin-centred gas, shale gas, gas hydrates, natural bitumen tar sands, and oil shale deposits.
Yield The percentage of material of interest that is extracted during mining and or processing.
1 Examples of specialised technologies include: dewatering of coalbed methane, massive fracturing programs for shale gas, steam and or solvents to mobilise bitumen for in-situ recovery, and, in some cases, mining activities.
298 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information CFR Cost and freight... named port of destination FPIC Free prior informed consent The seller must pay the costs and freight necessary to bring A principle requiring that individuals and communities should the goods to the named port of destination, but the risk be informed in appropriate, accessible language about projects of loss of, or damage to the goods, as well as any additional that might take place on their land.
It also guarantees that they are costs due to events occurring after the time the goods have been given the opportunity to give or withhold their consent to a project delivered on board the vessel, is transferred from the seller to the before it commences.
buyer when the goods pass the ships rail in the port of shipment.
FY20XX The CFR term requires the seller to clear the goods for shipment.
Refers to the financial year ending 30 June 20XX, Community investment where XX is the two-digit number for the year.
Contributions made to support communities in which GAAP we operate or have an interest.
Our contributions to community Generally accepted accounting principles.
programs comprise cash, in-kind support and administration costs.
Our targeted level of contribution is one per cent Gearing of pre-tax profit calculated on the average of the previous The ratio of net debt to net debt plus, net assets.
three years pre-tax profit as reported.
GHG Greenhouse gas Continuing operations For BHP Billiton reporting purposes, these are the aggregate Assets operations entities that were owned and or operated anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of carbon by BHP Billiton during FY2015 and were not included in the dioxide CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, 2 4 2 demerger of South32.
hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF.
CSG Customer Sector Group 6 Prior to 10 May 2013, referred to as a BHP Billiton product-based Group global business unit.
BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
CY20XX Group Function Refers to the calendar year ending 31 December 20XX, Group Functions act as agents of the Group Management where XX is the two-digit number of the year.
They operate under a defined set of mandates that relate to: Discontinued operations the governance of BHP Billiton: Assets operations entities that were owned and or operated the CEO limits established by the BHP Billiton Board: by BHP Billiton during FY2015 and demerged into a new company South32 on 25 May 2015. the activities necessary to improve the effectiveness of the Group.
Dividend Record Date GLD Group Level Document The date, determined by a companys board of directors, by when an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares The documents that give effect to the mandatory requirements in order to qualify for a forthcoming dividend.
arising from the BHP Billiton Operating Model as approved by the GMC.
They describe the mandatory minimum performance DLC requirements and accountabilities for definitive business Dual Listed Company.
obligations, processes, functions and activities across BHP Billiton.
DLC merger GMC Group Management Committee The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited The executive management group within BHP Billiton and BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001. as determined by the CEO.
Its role is defined by the DLC structure GMC Terms of Reference.
The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards EBIT Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Earnings before net finance costs and taxation.
Implementation Deed EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative The Implementation Deed entered into on 17 March 2015 between An international initiative dedicated to the enhancement BHP Billiton Ltd, BHP Billiton Plc and South32 Limited.
of transparency around the payments of taxes and royalties derived from resource development.
JSE Equalisation Share Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable JV a distribution to be made by the BHP Billiton Plc Group to the Joint venture.
BHP Billiton Limited Group or by the BHP Billiton Limited Group KMP Key Management Personnel to the BHP Billiton Plc Group as applicable should this be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly FOB Free on board... named port of shipment or indirectly including Executive Directors, and Non-executive The seller delivers when the goods pass the ships rail at the Directors.
For BHP Billiton it includes the GMC.
This means that the buyer has to bear KPI Key Performance Indicator all costs and risks of loss of, or damage to the goods from that point.
The FOB term requires the seller to clear the goods Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual for export.
This term can be used only for sea or inland businesses and executives in any one year.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 299 8 Glossary continued Major capital projects Senior manager Projects where the investment commitment exceeds the Group An employee who has responsibility for planning, directing approval threshold, or complexity or associated reputational risk or controlling the activities of the entity or a strategically significant or exposure necessitates review at a Group level and within the part of it.
In the Strategic Report, senior manager includes senior Group investment process.
leaders and any persons who are directors of any subsidiary company even if they are not senior leaders.
Marketing Shareplus Refers to the BHP Billiton staff, processes and activities that provide marketing services to the whole organisation.
NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange Shareholder Circular A New York physical futures exchange that trades energy The Shareholder Circular dated 16 March 2015 relating commodities i. e. crude oil and natural gas and precious to the demerger of South32 Limited from BHP Billiton.
metals in futures and options markets.
South32 share Occupational illness A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of South32 Limited.
An illness that occurs as a consequence of work-related activities Strate or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic illnesses or diseases, South Africas Central Securities Depositary for the electronic which may be caused by inhalation, absorption, ingestion settlement of financial instruments.
TRIF Total recordable injury frequency OEL Occupational exposure limit The sum of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work cases The concentration of a substance or agent, exposure to which, medical treatment cases 1,000,000 actual hours worked.
according to current knowledge, should not cause adverse health Stated in units of per million hours worked.
BHP Billiton adopts effects nor cause undue discomfort to nearly all workers.
the US Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury United States Government Occupational Safety and and illnesses.
TSR Total shareholder return Platts TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain Platts is a global provider of energy, petrochemicals, metals period through the change in share price and any dividends paid.
and agriculture information, and a premier source of benchmark It is the measure used to compare BHP Billitons performance price assessments for those commodity markets.
to that of other relevant companies under the LTIP.
Project investment UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority Total budgeted capital expenditure on growth projects under Term used when the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA development at year-end.
Refer to section 2.4 of this Annual acts as the competent authority under Part VI of the UK Financial Report, for a full listing of these growth projects.
Services and Markets Act FSMA.
Quality-of-life indicators Underlying EBIT Measures of peoples overall wellbeing, including material Calculated as earnings before net finance costs, taxation wellbeing standard of living and non-material components and any exceptional items.
such as the quality of the environment, national security, Underlying EBIT margin personal safety, and political and economic freedoms.
Calculated as Underlying EBIT excluding third party EBIT, Quoted divided by revenue net of third party product revenue.
In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and US$ listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency relevant exchange.
of the majority of its operations is the US dollar, as this is assessed to be the principal currency of the economic environments REi Resource Endowment initiative in which they operate.
An initiative of the International Council on Mining and Metals to enhance industrys socio-economic contribution to the WTI West Texas Intermediate countries and communities where organisations such as A mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural BHP Billiton operate, by better understanding the factors that underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure either inhibit or promote social and economic development after passing through surface separating facilities.
Crude oil is linked to large-scale mining projects.
refined to produce a wide array of petroleum products, including heating oils: gasoline, diesel and jet fuels: lubricants: asphalt: ROCE Return on capital employed ethane, propane, and butane: and many other products used Calculated as earnings from operations, excluding exceptional for their energy or chemical content.
items and net finance costs after tax, divided by average capital employed.
Average capital employed is calculated as net assets West Texas Intermediate refers to a crude stream produced less net debt.
in Texas and southern Oklahoma that serves as a reference or marker for pricing a number of other crude streams and SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission which is traded in the domestic spot market at Cushing, Oklahoma.
United States regulatory commission that aims to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and facilitate capital formation.
