4 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration for members of the GMC other than the CEO The information in this section contains details of the remuneration Fixed remuneration policy that guided the Remuneration Committees decisions and As for the CEO, the other members of the GMC receive: resulted in the remuneration outcomes for members of the GMC, A competitive base salary that is appropriate to the role other than the CEO or any other Executive Directors should any and attracts and retains high-quality executives.
Pension contributions to a maximum of 25 per cent Section 4.2.
1 for members of base salary.
of the GMC Relocation allowance and other benefits as determined by the Remuneration Committee, and of a similar nature to those The remuneration policy and structures for the members of received by the CEO, or as otherwise determined by local policy the GMC are essentially the same as those already described or practice in the location where the GMC member is located.
for the CEO in previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
Where this is the case, to avoid repetition, this section of the Section 4.4.
19 for details of significant components of fixed remuneration for each member of the GMC Report cross-references that prior content.
14 Remuneration policy Members of the GMC are entitled to participate in the STIP In designing and determining the remuneration for members on the same basis as the CEO.
of the GMC, the Remuneration Committee applies the Groups Section 4.3.
3 for details of the STIP, including the setting remuneration policy.
This contains the key principles that support of performance measures, assessment of performance, and reinforce the Groups strategy and ongoing performance and and delivery of awards in cash and deferred equity align activities of management with the interests of shareholders.
including terms in relation to malus and clawback Sections 4.3.
8 for the terms of STI awards and purpose of remuneration at BHP Billiton on cessation of employment The performance measures for members of the GMC are similar The Committee considers the appropriate total remuneration for to those of the CEO, as determined by the Committee.
However, each member of the GMC by examining the remuneration provided the weighting of each performance measure will vary to reflect the to comparable roles in organisations of similar global complexity, focus required from each GMC role.
In particular, there are different size, reach and industry.
weightings for GMC members with specific Business responsibilities.
Each year, the Committees independent adviser, Kepler Associates, The relevant performance measures and weightings and the sources and consolidates relevant remuneration data for comparable performance outcomes for FY2015 as assessed by the Committee roles, in relevant organisations and markets.
The adviser prepares are set out in the diagram below.
The individual STI outcome a comparison to current GMC remuneration, but does not make for each GMC member has been determined with reference specific recommendations regarding the level of individual to the time spent in relevant roles during FY2015.
6 for a comparable table of performance Section 4.4.
1 for more information on services measures and outcomes for the CEO provided by Kepler Associates Section 4.4.
19 for details of the STI amount provided From this market comparison, the Committee determines the to each member of the GMC for FY2015 performance appropriate remuneration for each individual, taking into account The description of the STI outcomes for the CEO explains their responsibilities, location, skills, qualifications, experience the FY2015 performance outcomes against targets for HSEC, and performance within the Group.
In doing so, the Committee attributable profit, EBIT and capital project management.
recognises that levels of remuneration should be sufficient This includes the material variations from target performance to attract, motivate and retain high-quality, experienced for BHP Billiton and for its separate Businesses, which correspond executives, but also that the Group should avoid paying to the Business outcomes shown in the diagram below.
more than is necessary for this purpose.
Individual measures are determined at the commencement 4.4.
15 Components of remuneration of the financial year.
These comprise each individuals contribution to the GMC, delivery against projects and initiatives within the The components of remuneration for members of the GMC scope of his or her role, and his or her contribution to the overall are the same as the CEO, with any differences described below.
Personal performance of GMC members Section 4.3.
3 for the components of CEO remuneration was reviewed against these measures by the Committee and, including how remuneration links to strategy, how each on average, was considered on target.
component operates and how performance is assessed FY2015 performance measures and outcomes Weighting for GMC members Weighting for Performance for FY2015 with Business other GMC Performance measure responsibility members Threshold Target Stretch HSEC Group 10% 20% Business 10% 0% Attributable profit adjusted for Group 20% 40% commodity prices, foreign exchange movements and exceptional items EBIT adjusted for commodity prices, Business 20% 0% foreign exchange movements and exceptional items Capital project management Group 10% 20% Business 10% 0% Individual measures 20% 20% BHP Billiton Group Aluminium Manganese and Nickel Coal Copper Iron Ore Petroleum and Potash 184 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
