M A N F A I N G E A M N E C N I T A L C O R I M S M K G I T T R E E O U P M A N I A N C G V O E M E S M 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued 3.16 Management Below the level of the Board, key management decisions are made by the CEO, the GMC, other management committees and individual members of management to whom authority has been delegated.
The diagram below describes the responsibilities of the CEO and four key management committees.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Chief Executive O icer Holds delegated authority from the Board to achieve the corporate purpose.
Authority extends to all matters except those reserved for the Boards decision.
CEO has delegated authority to management committees and individual members of management but CEO remains accountable to Board for all authority delegated to him.
Group Management Committee Established by the CEO, the GMC is the Groups most senior executive body.
Purpose is to provide leadership to the Group, determining its priorities and the way it is to operate, thereby assisting the CEO in pursuing the corporate purpose.
Is a forum to debate high-level matters important to the Group and to ensure consistent development of the Groups strategy.
Financial Risk Management Committee Purpose is to assist the CEO to monitor and oversee the management of the financial risks faced by the Group, including: commodity price risk: currency risk: interest rate risk: counterparty credit risk: financing risk: insurance.
Investment Committee Purpose is to assist the CEO in ensuring rigorous and consistent investment processes are in place and working eectively, so that: investments are aligned with Groups priorities and strategy: key risks and opportunities are identified and managed: shareholder value is maximised.
Disclosure Committee Purpose is to assist the CEO in overseeing the Groups compliance with securities dealing and continuous and periodic disclosure requirements, including: reviewing information that may require disclosure to stock exchanges: overseeing disclosure processes to ensure information disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
Performance evaluation for executives A performance evaluation as outlined above was conducted for all members of the GMC during FY2015.
For the CEO, the The performance of executives and other senior employees performance evaluation was led by the Chairman of the Board is reviewed on an annual basis.
For the members of the GMC, on behalf of all the Non-executive Directors, drawing on this review includes their contribution, engagement and interaction guidance from the Remuneration Committee.
The annual performance review process that we employ considers the performance of executives against criteria designed to capture both what is achieved and how it is achieved.
All performance assessments of executives consider how effective they have been in undertaking their role: what they have achieved against their specified key performance indicators: how they match up to the behaviours prescribed in our leadership model: and how those behaviours align with Our Charter values.
The assessment is therefore holistic and balances absolute achievement with the way performance has been delivered.
Progression within the Group is driven equally by personal leadership behaviours and capability to produce excellent results.
