1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Other statutory disclosures This section provides details of any additional statutory disclosures required by Australian or UK regulations that have not been included in the previous sections of the Remuneration Report.
19 GMC remuneration table The table below has been prepared in accordance with relevant accounting standards.
Where applicable, remuneration data for members of the GMC are pro-rated for the periods of FY2014 and FY2015 that they served as a member of the GMC.
Athalie Williams joined the GMC during FY2015 and there is no relevant FY2014 comparison.
Mike Fraser, Graham Kerr, Jane McAloon and Karen Wood left the GMC during FY2015.
More information on the policy and operation of each element of remuneration is provided in prior sections of this Report.
Share-based payments The figures included in the shaded columns of the statutory table below for share-based payments were not actually provided to the KMP during FY2014 or FY2015.
These amounts are calculated in accordance with accounting standards and are the amortised IFRS fair values of equity and equity-related instruments that have been granted to the executives, either in relation to FY2014 and FY2015 performance or that of prior financial years.
26 of this Annual Report for information on awards allocated during FY2014 and FY2015.
A further explanation of the share-based payments terms used in the table is provided following the table and its associated footnotes.
No changes to salaries occurred during FY2015 except for Athalie Williams who was appointed to the GMC during the year on a base salary of US$0.750 million.
15 for base salary policy and operation 2 Annual cash incentive is the cash portion of STI awards earned in respect of performance during each financial year or for the relevant period that they were KMP, as set out above the table.
For Mike Fraser and Graham Kerr, South32 has assumed the obligation to deliver the whole of FY2015 STI.
15 for STI policy and operation and FY2015 STI outcomes BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 187 4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4.
19 GMC remuneration table continued STI is provided half in cash and half in deferred equity which are included in the share-based payments columns of the table.
The minimum possible value awarded to each individual is nil.
The maximum STI is 240 per cent of base salary 120 per cent in cash and 120 per cent in deferred equity.
For FY2015, GMC members earned the following STI awards as a percentage of the maximum the remaining portion has not been earned i. e. has been forfeited : Andrew Mackenzie 57 per cent, Peter Beaven 57 per cent, Tony Cudmore 61 per cent, Tim Cutt 68 per cent, Dean Dalla Valle 57 per cent, Mike Fraser 57 per cent, Geoff Healy 68 per cent, Mike Henry 57 per cent, Graham Kerr 63 per cent, Jane McAloon 63 per cent, Daniel Malchuk 57 per cent, Jimmy Wilson 68 per cent, and Athalie Williams 65 per cent.
Karen Wood was not eligible to receive an STI award in FY2015 due to the timing of her departure from the Company.
3 Non-monetary benefits are non-pensionable and include such items as health and other insurances and fees for tax return preparation if required in multiple jurisdictions.
This item also includes the cost of domestic flights for Geoff Healy and for Graham Kerr as part of approved commuting arrangements, and travel for Mrs Mackenzie to accompany the CEO on business-related travel.
4 Other benefits are non-pensionable and included one-off relocation allowances with no trailing entitlements provided to Tim Cutt in FY2014 and to Peter Beaven and Athalie Williams in FY2015 in regard to their international relocations, and to Dean Dalla Valle and Mike Henry in FY2015 in regard to their domestic relocations.
The amount shown as Other benefits for Karen Wood is the value of statutory annual leave and long service leave entitlements paid at the time of her retirement.
5 Retirement benefits are 25 per cent of base salary for each GMC member.
6 The value of STI awards includes the estimated IFRS fair value of STI awards provided as deferred equity or cash-settled share-based payments under the GIS, GSTIP and STIP.
Awards may be paid in the form of cash where the individual ceases employment prior to the scheduled allocation date of the STI awards in December 2015 for FY2015 awards.
These share-based payments may also be forfeited after allocation in specific circumstances as described in section 4.3.
8 and therefore, the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
The maximum possible value cannot be determined as it depends on future share price movements, but is estimated by the IFRS fair value used for accounting purposes in this table.
The IFRS fair value of the STI awards is estimated at grant date by discounting the total value of the shares that will be issued in the future using the risk-free interest rate for the period to the date of award.
Participants who are provided with awards under the GIS are entitled to a DEP in lieu of the dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time they receive ordinary shares in BHP Billiton.
Prior to FY2011 awards, a similar DEP entitlement applied to GSTIP awards.
This is not the case with awards allocated since October 2011.
From FY2011, there was a change in accounting policy to account for the DEP from cash-settled to equity-settled.
STI awards are granted to GMC participants following the relevant AGMs awards to the CEO are subject to shareholder approval.
If employment ceases prior to that scheduled allocation of equity awards, the value of the awards may be provided in cash, but would still be included in this column of the table.
Once awarded, there is a vesting condition that requires participants to remain in employment for a further two years.
Accordingly, the number of securities if any that will ultimately vest cannot be determined until the service period has been completed.
The IFRS fair value of STI awards is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the expected future service period, which is normally three years being the performance year in which the STI is earned and the subsequent two-year service period.
The vesting of STI awards may be accelerated in the event of leaving the Group, in which case the expected future service period is amended: The value of Shareplus awards includes the estimated IFRS fair value of rights to Matched Shares acquired during each share purchase period under the Shareplus program.
These rights are acquired on each of the quarterly share purchase dates under the program grant dates, and the IFRS fair value is apportioned to annual remuneration based on the future service period required for the Matched Shares to be allocated i. e. the vesting date of the rights.
Where entitlements to the Matched Shares are accelerated on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
26 for the actual numbers of awards allocated to and held by members of the GMC 7 The value of LTI awards includes the estimated IFRS fair value of awards provided under the LTIP, MAP and as Transitional GMC awards which are defined as equity-settled share-based payments.
8 and therefore the minimum possible value of the awards is nil.
The amount in respect of each award under the LTIP is the estimated IFRS fair value of the award as determined by Kepler Associates using a Monte Carlo simulation methodology taking account of the performance condition, the term of the award, the share price at grant date, the expected price volatility of the underlying share, the risk-free interest rate for the term of the award and the value of the DEP that will be received on exercise of the award.
The IFRS fair value of each award is apportioned to annual remuneration in equal amounts to each of the years in the expected future service period, which is normally five years.
Where entitlements to LTI awards are preserved on leaving the Group, the expected future service period is amended.
24 for the actual numbers of awards allocated to and held by members of the GMC This column also includes an amount allocated to remuneration in FY2014 and in FY2015 in respect of awards received by Mr Mackenzie on commencement of employment with BHP Billiton, which vested during FY2013.
The final value of the awards will be determined at the time that Mr Mackenzie chooses to redeem the award, and this column will incorporate an annual true-up amount until that time.
Full details of the award and the relevant terms and conditions were provided in the FY2013 Annual Report.
Equity awards The following sections set out the interests held by members of the GMC under the Groups employee equity plans.
Each equity award is a right to acquire one ordinary share in BHP Billiton Limited or in BHP Billiton Plc upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions.
The vesting conditions will include performance and or service requirements as relevant to the purpose of the award and as described in each of the following sections.
The value of awards over BHP Billiton Limited shares is shown in Australian dollars and the value of awards over BHP Billiton Plc shares is shown in pounds sterling for awards over shares on the LSE and in South African rand for awards over shares on the JSE.
The Securities Dealing GLD governs and restricts dealing arrangements and the provision of shares on vesting or exercise of awards.
Dividend Equivalent Payments The awards are not ordinary shares and do not carry entitlements to ordinary dividends or other shareholder rights.
Dividends are not received by the executives during the vesting period.
For awards provided under the GIS, STIP and LTIP, a DEP is provided to cover dividends that would have been payable on ordinary BHP Billiton shares over the period from the allocation date to the time that the holder receives ordinary shares in BHP Billiton in respect of the award on vesting or on exercise.
A DEP is only provided in relation to awards that have vested upon satisfaction of the relevant conditions.
This payment is not made in relation to any securities that are forfeited or lapse.
Impact of the demerger of South32 on BHP Billiton employee equity plans The Board and Remuneration Committee gave careful consideration as to how the demerger would affect employees who participated in these plans at the time of the demerger.
The Board considered it important that any changes to these plans as a result of the demerger were fair to shareholders and at the same time ensured that employees continued to be appropriately treated.
The treatment of a GMC members unvested awards at the time of the demerger is that the numbers of unvested awards under the STIP, GIS, LTIP, MAP and GSTIP and those provided as Transitional GMC awards were adjusted to reflect the reduction in the value of BHP Billiton after South32 demerged.
In relation to unvested awards under Shareplus, the GMC members received no adjustment in the number of their previously accumulated holdings.
The new number of unvested awards for each GMC member under the STIP, GIS, LTIP, MAP, GSTIP and those provided as Transitional GMC awards equals the number of awards held before the demerger multiplied by BHP Billiton five-day VWAP plus South32 five-day VWAP divided by BHP Billiton five-day VWAP.
Prices were based on the first five trading days following South32s listing on the relevant exchanges on 18 May 2015.
The value of the calculation, the Uplift factor, on each exchange is 1.0765 ASX, 1.0804 LSE and 1.0792 JSE.
The additional awards are represented in the column headed Uplift in the following tables.
