1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.6 Chairman 3.8 Director skills, experience and attributes The Chairman, Jac Nasser, is considered by the Board to be independent.
He was appointed Chairman of the Group from Skills, experience and attributes required 31 March 2010 and has been a Non-executive Director of the The Board considers that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, Group since 6 June 2006.
Mr Nasser was last re-elected at the knowledge, experience, geographic location, nationalities and 2014 AGMs and, in accordance with the Groups policy that each gender is required in order to effectively govern the business.
Director stand for election annually, will stand for re-election The Board and its Nomination and Governance Committee work in 2015.
Further information in relation to his tenure on the Board to ensure that the Board continues to have the right balance of is set out in section 3.10. skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary The Chairmans role includes: to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the highest standards of governance.
leading the Board and ensuring that it is operating to the highest governance standards: In order to govern the Group effectively, Non-executive Directors encouraging a culture of openness and debate to foster must have a clear understanding of the Groups overall strategy, a high-performing and collegial team of Directors that together with knowledge about the Group and the industries operates effectively: in which it operates.
Non-executive Directors must be sufficiently familiar with the Groups core business to be effective contributors ensuring strategic issues, shareholder and relevant stakeholder views are regularly reviewed, clearly understood and underpin to the development of strategy and to monitor performance.
Part of the required understanding of strategy and the core the work of the Board: business is the requirement to understand the risks that the facilitating the relationship between the Board and the CEO: Group faces and the processes in place to mitigate and manage ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information: those risks.
We operate in an uncertain external environment, setting agendas for meetings of the Board, in consultation and the Group is exposed to many material risks across its with the CEO and Group Company Secretary, that focus on the operations, including some that are systemic, such as financial strategic direction and performance of the Groups business: risks and climate change.
All those risks are factored into the ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all Boards approach to strategy and its assessment of an optimised agenda items: portfolio.
The risk management governance structure is described leading the Board and individual Director in section 3.15. performance assessments: The Board Governance Document requires that Directors commit speaking and acting for the Board and representing to the collective decision-making processes of the Board.
Individual the Board to shareholders.
Directors are required to debate issues openly and constructively, The Board considers that none of Mr Nassers other commitments and are free to question or challenge the opinions of others.
1 interferes with the discharge of his Directors must be clear communicators and good listeners who responsibilities to the Group.
The Board is satisfied that he actively contribute to the Board in a collegial manner.
Each Director makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
must ensure that no decision or action is taken that places his or her interests in front of the interests of the Company.
The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identified John Schubert to act as Chairman should the need arise at Current Board profile short notice.
The Board considers that each of the Non-executive Directors has the following attributes: time to undertake the responsibilities of the role: 3.7 Senior Independent Director unquestioned honesty and integrity: During the year under review, and from February 2003, a willingness to understand and commit to the highest standards Sir John Buchanan held the role of Senior Independent Director of governance: of BHP Billiton Plc.
He acted independently in the best interests an ability to apply strategic thought to relevant matters: of the Group.
His expertise and broad international experience an ability to consider materiality and risk tolerance as key materially enhanced the skills and experience profile of the Board considerations in decision-making: and he continued to make a substantial contribution as Senior Independent Director and in his other Board roles until his a preparedness to question, challenge and critique: death in July 2015. experience of managing in the context of uncertainty, and an understanding of the risk environment of the Group, including On 14 August 2015, the Board announced that it had appointed the potential for risk to impact our health and safety, Shriti Vadera as the Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc in environment, community, reputation, regulatory, market and accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
She is available financial performance: to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed knowledge of world capital markets: through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
As Senior Independent Director, a proven track record of creating value for shareholders.
she also provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors if necessary.
The Executive Director brings additional perspectives to the Board through a deeper understanding of the Groups business and day-to-day operations.
The following table sets out the mix of skills and experience that the Board considers necessary or desirable in its Directors and the extent to which they are represented on the Board and its committees.
The table includes Anita Frew who will join the Board as of 15 September 2015.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 143 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued Nomination and Skills and experience Board Risk and Audit Governance Remuneration Sustainability Total Directors 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors Executive leadership Sustainable success in business at a very senior executive level 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors in a successful career.
Global experience Senior management or equivalent experience in multiple global 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors locations, exposed to a range of political, cultural, regulatory and business environments.
Governance Commitment to the highest standards of governance, including 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors experience with a major organisation that is subject to rigorous governance standards, and an ability to assess the effectiveness of senior management.
Strategy Risk Track record of developing and implementing a successful strategy, 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors including appropriately probing and challenging management on the delivery of agreed strategic planning objectives.
Track record in developing an asset or business portfolio over the long term that remains resilient to systemic risk.
Financial acumen Senior executive or equivalent experience in financial accounting 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors and reporting, corporate finance and internal financial controls, including an ability to probe the adequacies of financial and risk controls.
Capital projects Experience working in an industry with projects involving 10 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 2 Directors 4 Directors large-scale capital outlays and long-term investment horizons.
Health, safety and environment Experience related to workplace health and safety, environmental 11 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors and social responsibility, and community.
Remuneration Board Remuneration Committee membership or management 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors experience in relation to remuneration, including incentive programs and pensions superannuation and the legislation and contractual framework governing remuneration.
Mining Senior executive experience in a large mining organisation 4 Directors 2 Directors 0 Directors 1 Director 2 Directors combined with an understanding of the Groups corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Oil and gas Senior executive experience in the oil and gas industry, including 5 Directors 1 Director 1 Director 1 Director 3 Directors in-depth knowledge of the Groups strategy, markets, competitors, operational issues, technology and regulatory concerns.
Marketing Senior executive experience in marketing and a detailed 10 Directors 3 Directors 2 Directors 2 Directors 4 Directors understanding of the Groups corporate purpose to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of natural resources.
Public policy Experience in public and regulatory policy, including how 12 Directors 4 Directors 3 Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors it affects corporations.
When considering new appointments to the Board, the Nomination Renewal and Governance Committee oversees the preparation of a position The Board plans for its own succession, with the assistance of the specification that is provided to an independent recruitment Nomination and Governance Committee.
In doing this, the Board: organisation retained to conduct a global search.
Independent considers the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and search firms are instructed to consider a wide range of candidates, diversity of geographic location, nationality and gender including taking into account geographic location, nationality and necessary to allow it to meet the corporate purpose: gender.
In addition to the specific skills, knowledge and experience assesses the skills, backgrounds, knowledge, experience and deemed necessary, the specification contains the criteria required diversity currently represented: by the Board Governance Document.
identifies any inadequate representation of those attributes and Once a candidate is identified, the Board, with the assistance agrees the process necessary to ensure a candidate is selected of external consultants where necessary, conducts appropriate who brings them to the Board: background and reference checks before the candidate is reviews how Board performance might be enhanced, both appointed to the Board or put forward to shareholders for election.
at an individual Director level and for the Board as a whole.
The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that contains The Board believes that orderly succession and renewal are achieved the terms on which Non-executive Directors will be appointed, as a result of careful planning, with the appropriate composition including the basis upon which they will be indemnified.
The letter of the Board continually under review.
This planning involves looking of appointment clearly defines the role of Directors, including out over a five-year period, which provides a robust framework the expectations in terms of independence, participation, time within which to consider Board succession and renewal.
In summary, Directors are expected to constructively challenge: set the values and 144 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
