4 Remuneration Report continued Mike Fraser 4.4.
17 Employment contracts Mike Fraser stepped down from his role as President, Human The terms of employment for other members of the GMC are Resources on the GMC effective 31 December 2014 as a result formalised in employment contracts, which have no fixed term.
of the South32 demerger proposed at the time, and exited They typically outline the components of remuneration paid to BHP Billiton on 24 May 2015 as a result of Mr Fraser becoming the individual, but do not prescribe how remuneration levels are President and Chief Operating Officer Africa of South32.
Mr Fraser to be modified from year-to-year.
A GMC employment contract received base salary, pension contributions, STI and applicable may be terminated by BHP Billiton on six months notice for all benefits up to the date of his exit from BHP Billiton.
He received new GMC appointees since March 2014, or up to 12 months notice no payments in lieu of notice upon exit, but will receive in the for all other GMC appointees.
BHP Billiton can terminate a contract future the value of pension and superannuation funds that he immediately by making a payment of up to 12 months base salary has accumulated during his service with the Group.
His statutory plus pension contributions for the relevant period.
The GMC leave entitlements transferred to South32.
member must give six months notice for voluntary resignation.
Upon Mr Frasers exit, the unvested deferred shares allocated Section 4.2.
1 for members of the GMC including the date they to him in respect of the FY2013 GSTIP and FY2013 MAP award commenced in their role if during the current financial year vested to him in full.
As a result of the South32 demerger and following approval from the Remuneration Committee, 4.4.
18 Arrangements for GMC members Mr Frasers FY2014 GMC Transitional Awards and 2013 LTIP leaving the Group during and after FY2015 lapsed in full, effective 24 May 2015.
South32 has replaced not previously reported these awards with new awards over South32 shares that have The arrangements for GMC members leaving the Group are similar terms and conditions as the original awards.
within the approval provided by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs Jane McAloon in regard to Australian termination benefits legislation, including the provision of performance-based remuneration in accordance Jane McAloon retired from her role as President, Governance and Group Company Secretary on the GMC on 31 May 2015 with the rules of the relevant incentive plans.
The arrangements for Graham Kerr and Mike Fraser are in accordance with relevant and from BHP Billiton on 1 July 2015.
Ms McAloon received base salary, pension contributions, STI and applicable benefits up to the transaction documentation in relation to the demerger of South32.
The FY2014 Remuneration Report contained details date of her retirement.
She received no payments in lieu of notice upon retirement, but will receive in the future the value of pension of the arrangements for Karen Wood on her retirement from the Group in August 2014. and superannuation funds that she has accumulated during her service with the Group.
She was paid the value of her statutory Graham Kerr leave entitlements.
When determining the STI awards for Graham Kerr stepped down from his role as Chief Financial GMC members, the Remuneration Committee resolved that Officer on the GMC effective 30 September 2014 as a result Ms McAloon would receive a FY2015 short-term incentive award of the South32 demerger proposed at the time, and exited in the form of cash, which was assessed by the Committee, based BHP Billiton on 24 May 2015 as a result of Mr Kerr becoming on her performance.
No deferral period will apply in respect Chief Executive Officer of South32.
Mr Kerr received base salary, of this cash STI award.
pension contributions, STI and applicable benefits up to the Upon Ms McAloons retirement, the unvested awards allocated date of his exit from BHP Billiton.
He received no payments to her in respect of the FY2013 GIS, FY2013 GSTIP and FY2013 MAP in lieu of notice upon exit, but has been paid, or will receive vested to her in full and those in respect of the FY2014 STIP will in the future, the value of pension and superannuation funds remain on foot and will not vest until August 2016.
In accordance that he has accumulated during his service with the Group.
with the Groups usual practice, Ms McAloons unvested LTIP His statutory leave entitlements transferred to South32.
awards and Transitional GMC awards were pro-rated, to reflect Upon Mr Kerrs exit, the unvested deferred shares allocated the percentage of the performance period that had elapsed to him in respect of the FY2013 GIS award vested to him to 1 July 2015.
The vesting of the retained pro-rated awards will in full.
As a result of the South32 demerger and following be determined by the Committee at the relevant time in future approval of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Kerrs FY2013 years.
The LTIP awards will only vest if the performance condition GMC Transitional Awards, 2012 LTIP and 2013 LTIP lapsed is met at the end of each five-year performance period, subject in full, effective 24 May 2015.
South32 has replaced these to the Committees ability to reduce vesting through its awards with new awards over South32 shares that have similar discretion under the plan rules.
terms and conditions as the original awards.
