1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.17 Business conduct Our Charter and our Code of Business Conduct The SEC noted the significant cooperation BHP Billiton provided during the extensive investigation, which commenced in 2009.
Our Charter is central to our business.
It articulates the values It also noted the significant remedial actions BHP Billiton has we uphold, our strategy and how we measure success.
taken over the past five years to enhance its compliance program.
Our Code of Business Conduct the Code is based on Our Charter At the time of its sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Olympics values and describes the behaviours that we expect of those and Paralympics, BHP Billiton had no independent compliance who work for or on behalf of BHP Billiton.
The Code applies to function.
Instead, accountability for complying with BHP Billitons employees, directors, officers and controlled entities.
Consultants anti-corruption policies, which were set out in BHP Billitons Guide and contractors are also expected to act in accordance with the to Business Conduct, was vested in its operating business units.
Code when working for BHP Billiton.
BHP Billiton has since created an independent compliance function The Code describes the behaviours expected to support a safe, that reports to the head of the legal function and the Risk and respectful and legally compliant working environment, when Audit Committee of the Board.
Today, this function would be interacting with governments and the communities in which required to approve any offer of hospitality of this kind to a we operate, when dealing with third parties and when using government official.
Under the SEC order, BHP Billiton will company resources.
self-report on its compliance program to the SEC for a period Working with integrity is a condition of employment with of 12 months following the date of the SEC order 20 May 2015.
BHP Billiton and in some cases a contractual obligation of many BHP Billiton will continue to cooperate with the Australian of our contractors and suppliers.
All employees are required Federal Police investigation, which was announced in 2013. to undertake annual training in relation to the Code to promote Insider trading awareness and understanding in the behaviours expected of them.
Demonstration of the values described in Our Charter and the We have a Securities Dealing Group Level Document that covers Code is part of the annual employee performance review process.
dealings by Directors and identified employees, is consistent with the UK Model Code contained in the UK Financial Conduct The Code of Business Conduct is available online Authority Listing Rules, and complies with the ASX Listing Rule at w w w. bhpbillit on.
com aboutus ourcompan y codeo fbusconduct.
The Securities Dealing Group EthicsPoint, BHP Billitons business conduct advisory service Level Document restricts dealings by Directors and identified Where an employee or third party has a concern regarding employees in shares and other securities during designated behaviour that may not be consistent with our Code of Business prohibited periods and at any time that they are in possession Conduct, there are reporting options available, which include of unpublished price-sensitive information.
As part of a regular, BHP Billitons business conduct advisory service, EthicsPoint.
planned process, the Securities Dealing Group Level Document EthicsPoint is a worldwide service available to internal and is reviewed every two years to ensure it remains current, fit for external stakeholders that facilitates the raising, management purpose and in line with our broader governance framework.
and resolution of business conduct queries and concerns via A copy of the Securities Dealing Group Level Document is available a confidential 24-hour, multilingual hotline and online case online at w w w. bhpbillit on.
com aboutus our compan y go vernance.
Reports can be made anonymously and Political donations without fear of retaliation.
Arrangements are in place to investigate all matters appropriately.
Levels of activity and support processes We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics for EthicsPoint are monitored, with activity reports presented to and do not make political contributions donations for political the Board.
Further information on EthicsPoint can be found in the purposes to any political party, politician, elected official or Code of Business Conduct, available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
We do, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect the Company in Anti-corruption investigation the countries in which we operate.
As explained in the Directors In May 2015, BHP Billiton announced the resolution of the previously Report, the Australian Electoral Commission AEC disclosure disclosed investigation by the SEC into potential breaches of the requirements are broad, such that amounts that are not political US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
The US Department donations can be reportable for AEC purposes.
For example, of Justice has also completed its investigation into BHP Billiton where a political party or organisation owns shares in BHP Billiton, without taking any action.
the AEC filing requires the political party or organisation to The investigations related primarily to previously terminated disclose the dividend payments received for their shareholding.
minerals exploration and development efforts as well as hospitality provided by BHP Billiton at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.
This concluded the US investigations on all matters.
The matter was resolved with the SEC pursuant to an administrative order, which imposed a US$25 million civil penalty.
The SEC order makes no findings of corrupt intent or bribery by BHP Billiton.
The findings announced by the SEC related to a hospitality program hosted by BHP Billiton that supported its sponsorship of the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.
As part of this program, BHP Billiton invited customers, suppliers, business partners, and government officials, along with BHP Billiton employees, to the Olympic Games.
While BHP Billiton made efforts at the time to address the risks related to inviting government officials to the Olympics, the controls it relied upon were insufficient to satisfy the civil books and records and internal accounting controls requirements of the FCPA.
