7 Financial Statementscontinued 1 Principal accounting policies Basis of accounting Deferred taxation The BHP Billiton Plc entity accounts are prepared in accordance with Tax-effect accounting is applied in respect of corporation tax.
the UK Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK Generally Accepted Full provision is made for deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax Accounting Practice UK GAAP using the historical cost convention, assets that represent the tax effect of timing differences which arise which have been applied on a consistent basis with the year ended from the recognition in the accounts of items of revenue and expense 30 June 2014. in periods different to those in which they are taxable or deductible for corporation tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are BHP Billiton Plc has applied the exemption within FRS 29 Financial measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the timing Instruments: Disclosures available to parent entity accounts presented differences are expected to reverse.
in consolidated financial statements that are publicly available where disclosures are presented on a Group basis.
The Groups financial A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits risk management disclosures are presented in note 23 Financial risk and deductible timing differences to the extent that it is probable management of the BHP Billiton Group Financial Statements.
that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date The Financial Reporting Council recently issued FRS 100 Application and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the of Financial Reporting Requirements, FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure related tax benefit will be realised.
Framework and FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK & Republic of Ireland which will be first effective for Share-based payments BHP Billiton Plc for the year ending 30 June 2016.
FRS 101 applies to The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set out the unconsolidated parent company financial statements allowing in note 43 Significant accounting policies of the BHP Billiton Group them to apply the same accounting policies as the Groups financial Financial Statements and is applied with respect to all rights and statements but with less disclosure.
FRS 102 will replace the current options granted over BHP Billiton Plc shares, including those granted UK GAAP standards with an IFRS based new standard and include to employees of other Group companies.
However, the cost of rights a set of disclosure exemptions for qualifying entities formerly preparing and options granted is recovered from subsidiaries of the Group UK GAAP financial statements for the year ending 30 June 2016. where the participants are employed.
Details of the Employee Share BHP Billiton Plc must elect to apply either FRS 101 or FRS 102 for Ownership Plans and the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan its reduced-disclosure financial statements for the year ending Trust are contained in note 25 Employee share ownership plans 30 June 2016 subject to shareholder objection.
Irrespective of the BHP Billiton Group Financial Statements.
BHP Billiton Plc of the election made, based on a preliminary assessment, is the Trusts sponsoring company and so the Financial Statements the Group believes the change will have no significant impact of BHP Billiton Plc represent the combined Financial Statements on its results or financial position.
of BHP Billiton Plc and the Trust.
Foreign currencies Revenue recognition The accounting policy is consistent with the Groups policy set Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Dividend income out in note 42 Functional and presentation currency of the is recognised on declaration by subsidiaries.
BHP Billiton Group Financial Statements.
Treasury shares Investments The consideration paid for the repurchase of BHP Billiton Plc Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for shares which are held as treasury shares is recognised as a impairments.
Fixed asset investments are assessed to ensure carrying reduction in shareholders funds and represents a reduction amounts do not exceed estimated recoverable amounts.
The carrying in distributable reserves.
amount of each income generating unit is reviewed at least annually Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits to evaluate whether the carrying amount is recoverable, or more The accounting policy is broadly consistent with the Groups regularly if an event or change in circumstances indicates that the policy set out in note 43 Significant accounting policies of the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the asset BHP Billiton Group Financial Statements.
is determined to be impaired, an impairment loss will be recorded and the asset written down based on the amount by which the asset Financial guarantees carrying amount exceeds the higher of net realisable value and Financial guarantees issued by BHP Billiton Plc are contracts that value in use.
Value in use is generally determined by discounting require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss expected future cash flows using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount it incurs because the specified debtor fails to comply with the rate appropriate to the risks inherent in the asset.
terms of the debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially as a liability at fair value less transaction costs as appropriate.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation.
2 Fixed assets At 30 June 2015, BHP Billiton Plc held an investment of US$3,131 million 2014: US$3,131 million in BHP Billiton Group Ltd, which represents 100 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue and US$0.1 million 2014: US$0.1 million in BHP Billiton Finance Plc, which represents 99 per cent of the ordinary shares on issue.
BHP Billiton Group Ltd and BHP Billiton Finance Plc are included in the consolidation of the BHP Billiton Group.
3 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 2015 2014 US$M US$M Amounts owed to Group undertakings 59 71 Total creditors 59 71 276 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
