1 Strategic Report continued 1.14 Sustainability Sustainability is core to our business strategy and integrated into our decision-making.
It helps us live Our Charter values of putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible and supporting our host communities.
In reporting our sustainability performance, we include our We acknowledge the importance of measuring our broader impact.
impact on the environment and approach to climate change, As such, in FY2015 we expanded our definition of work-related water stewardship, resource conservation and biodiversity: activities to align with the recording boundaries of the International and our efforts to ensure the broader economic contributions Council on Mining and Metals ICMM.
This includes the recording of our operations benefit the regions in which we operate.
of events that occur outside of our operated locations where we have established the work to be performed and can set and verify The information including performance data contained in this the health and safety standards.
section, unless otherwise stated, covers assets that have been wholly owned and operated by BHP Billiton or that have been 1.14.1 Identifying our material sustainability issues operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture operation operated To deliver successfully on our business strategy, we identify and assets for FY2015.
It also includes information including respond to the sustainability issues that have a direct or indirect performance data relating to, and including, the demerged impact on our business and our stakeholders.
Using a materiality assets for the period from 1 July 2014 to 8 May 2015.
Unless assessment process, we identify and prioritise material sustainability otherwise stated, data included in this section is presented issues.
The following issues are discussed in this Annual Report: on a Continuing operations basis.
Governance Health and safety Environment Society Governance and Keeping our people Biodiversity management Engaging with our sustainability and operations safe host communities Water Identifying and managing Focusing on the health Respecting human rights Responsibly managing our material risks of our people hydraulic fracturing Making a positive Operating with integrity contribution to society Climate change Additional information relating to our materiality assessment process and our sustainability performance for FY2015 is available in our Sustainability Report 2015 and can be found online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
50 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.14.2 Governance Governance and sustainability At our operated assets, we have the ability to set workplace HSEC standards and enforce their application.
Contractors working at Our Board governs the Group in a manner consistent with our operated assets must comply with the minimum performance Our Charter, our strategy and our commitment to a transparent requirements in our relevant GLDs.
In addition we seek to ensure and high-quality governance system.
The Board has established our customers, suppliers, agents and service providers maintain a number of committees to assist in exercising its authority, business practices and workplaces that are aligned with our GLDs.
including monitoring the performance of the Group.
We also seek to apply GLD performance requirements to our The Sustainability Committee assists the Board in oversight non-operated assets.
of health, safety, environment and community HSEC matters, We use the framework in our Risk Management GLD to identify including climate change.
This includes overseeing areas and manage the risk involved in our business activities, functions relating to HSEC risk control, compliance with applicable legal and processes.
This provides a strong foundation for our active and regulatory requirements, and overall HSEC performance and consistent risk-based approach to sustainability.
discussion of our risk factors and management approach is provided During FY2015, the Sustainability Committee continued to assist in section 1.7 of this Annual Report.
the Board in its oversight of HSEC issues and performance.
This Operating with integrity included consideration of strategic environmental and community matters, HSEC audits and trends, and the detailed reports from Integrity and accountability are core values at BHP Billiton and management of the relevant operation on the event, actions taken central to our reputation as one of the worlds leading companies.
and investigations in the event of a fatality or significant incident.
We are committed to ethical business practices and high-quality governance in all that we do.
Regardless of the country or culture Below the level of the Board, key management decisions are within which our people work, our Anti-corruption GLD and made by the CEO, the GMC, other management committees Code of Business Conduct prohibit bribery and corruption in all and individual members of management to whom authority our business dealings.
Particulars in relation to the Code of Business has been delegated.
Conduct and anti-corruption are referred to the Sustainability At the Group level, health, safety, environment and community Report 2015 and in section 3.17 of this Annual Report.
Specific teams provide guidance and thought leadership by developing discussion on legal proceedings is available in section 6 of this and implementing HSEC management frameworks, focusing on Annual Report.
catastrophic and fatal hazards management: identifying relevant Transparency of payments to governments HSEC trends: tracking performance and alignment with other BHP Billiton considers the licences we have to operate in jurisdictions Company requirements: and reporting progress against targets.
around the world as a privilege that bestows upon us a responsibility To link HSEC matters to remuneration, 20 per cent of the FY2015 to contribute to the economic and social development of our host short-term incentive opportunity for GMC members was based countries.
A critical component of this responsibility is our taxation on HSEC performance.
Given the importance the Group places obligations to our host governments.
on safety, the short-term incentive opportunity attached to HSEC Our payments to governments in FY2015 on a country-by-country has been increased for FY2016 to 25 per cent.
The Sustainability basis of US$7.3 billion are presented in our Sustainability Report Committee assists the Remuneration Committee in determining 2015.
Approximately US$1.4 billion in taxes collected on behalf appropriate HSEC metrics to be included in GMC scorecards and of employees was also remitted to governments in FY2015.
in assessing performance against those measures.
More than 99 per cent excludes demerged assets of our The Remuneration Committee and the Board also have discretion payments were made to nine countries.
Of these, our largest over both the short-term and long-term incentive opportunities payments were made in Australia, where we have the majority for GMC members and take into consideration HSEC performance.
As a consequence of the five tragic fatalities in FY2015, the Board BHP Billiton has long been deeply committed to the role and the Remuneration Committee concluded, after taking advice transparency plays in contributing to the good governance of from the Sustainability Committee, that a zero outcome was natural resources for the benefit of the governments and citizens appropriate for the CEOs FY2015 short-term incentive HSEC of countries that host our operations.
This is why BHP Billiton component, with the decision supported by the CEO.
has voluntarily publicly reported our payments of taxes and Further information on the metrics and their assessment is available in royalties in our Annual Sustainability Report in increasing detail the Remuneration Report contained in section 4 of this Annual Report.
over the last 15 years and has been a member of the Extractive Identifying and managing our material risks Industries Transparency Initiative EITI since its inception in 2002.
We continue our strong support through our active participation In addition to the legal requirements of the countries in which on the EITI Board.
we operate, our approach to sustainability risks is defined by our GLDs.
These clearly describe our mandatory minimum We believe that transparency by governments and companies performance requirements and accountabilities across the around revenue flows from the extraction of natural resources Group and are the foundation for developing and implementing is an important element in the fight against corruption.
A level and management systems at our operations.
globally consistent playing field will ensure all companies disclose on the same basis and reduce the reporting burden for those GLDs relating to HSEC matters set our Group-wide HSEC-related operating in multiple jurisdictions.
To this end, and consistent performance requirements to ensure effective management with our Transparency Principles, we support appropriate national control of our sustainability risks.
Our GLDs are consistent with and extra-territorial mandatory corporate reporting to complement the principles and mandatory requirements of the position the EITI and provide a globally consistent regulatory framework statements of the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework, for all extractive industry companies.
the United Nations UN Global Compact, the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the Voluntary Principles on Security and We have disclosed our payments of taxes and royalties on a Human Rights.
project-by-project basis, and payments to state and provincial governments at a subnational level, in a stand-alone BHP Billiton Economic contribution and payments to governments Report.
This Report is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 51 1 Strategic Report continued 1.14.2 Governance continued Closure planning To reflect updates in scientific knowledge and global regulatory and political responses, we regularly review our position on climate Closure planning is an important consideration in the planning change.
We incorporate climate change considerations into our and development of our mining and petroleum operations.
Group scenario planning to understand potential impacts on our We recognise the significant risks associated with ineffective portfolio.
We also conduct annual reviews of performance against closure and seek to minimise these through our closure Business GHG targets to ensure we are on track to achieve our governance framework.
The closure framework integrates Company target.
The Sustainability Committee has considered resource planning and development, health, safety and a range of climate change scenarios and continues to monitor environment, stakeholder engagement, finance and assurance the actions being taken to manage a range of climate change into business operational design.
Specifically, the framework requires each asset to develop Our approach closure plans.
These plans describe closure objectives and the Our strategic approach to climate change is underpinned by management process in place to reduce closure liabilities over the life of the asset.
engagement with policy makers and other stakeholders, including investors, companies and non-government organisations.
We believe An ongoing internal audit program continues to test the industry has a key role to play in climate change policy development effectiveness of these closure plans and the business alignment by working with governments and other stakeholders to inform the to the closure planning framework, including the financial development of effective long-term policy framework that delivers provisions.
Information on these provisions can be found in note 14 a measured transition to a lower emissions economy.
BHP Billiton Closure and rehabilitation provisions to the Financial Statements.
believes an effective policy framework should include a Audit findings are reviewed annually and reported to the relevant complementary set of measures, including a price on carbon, Business Presidents, while summary reports are considered support for low-emissions technologies and measures to by the Sustainability Committee of the Board.
11 audits were conducted against performance criteria and recommendations from such audits have been initiated.
We continue to share lessons learnt with our stakeholders and identify solutions that we believe can drive emissions reductions Climate change at the lowest cost.
In September 2014, BHP Billiton signed the Our perspective on climate change World Banks Putting a Price on Carbon statement, which was We accept the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented at the 2014 UN Climate Summit in New York and we IPCC assessment of climate change science, which has found are a member of their Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition.
In 2015, that warming of the climate is unequivocal, the human influence we made two climate change policy submissions in response to is clear and physical impacts are unavoidable.
the Australian Governments discussion papers Setting Australias Post-2020 Target for GHG Emissions and Emission Reduction Fund: Sustainable economic growth requires an effective response Safeguard Mechanism, sharing our perspective on the importance to climate change.
The world needs reliable, affordable energy to of this issue.
support higher living standards and lower GHG emissions to keep the global average temperature rise below two degrees Celsius.
We have also hosted several policy roundtables, bringing We do not prioritise one of these requirements over the other.
cross-sectoral business groups together to discuss different Both are essential.
ways that business and government can address climate change.
Internationally, we look forward to the 21st Conference of the Even allowing for significant improvements in energy efficiency, Parties COP21 in Paris in December 2015 delivering a positive energy demand is expected to increase as the global population outcome that puts the world on a path to limit global temperatures grows and living standards improve.
Today, fossil fuels are often to less than two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, in line the most affordable, reliable and accessible way of meeting this with current international commitments.
demand and provide more than 80 per cent of the worlds primary energy.
However, their growing use would substantially increase We are committed to transparent and open communications GHG emissions and exacerbate climate change unless new and have an ongoing and extensive engagement program technology reduces their impact.
To meet its development with investors, government and the broader society, including and climate goals, the world must find ways to progressively our voluntary submission to the CDP formerly known as the decarbonise the use of fossil fuels, improve energy efficiency Carbon Disclosure Project.
The CDP score is a measure of the and increase the use of alternative energy sources such as actions that a company has demonstrated in carbon management.
Our commitment to continuing transparency and disclosure has resulted in an improvement in our CDP score since 2013.
Climate change governance BHP Billitons strategy is tied to economic growth in both emerging We have been taking action for many years to understand and and developed economies, and sustainable growth requires manage the impacts of climate change on our business.
We have an effective response to climate change.
Responding to climate been applying an internal price on carbon in our investment change is a priority Board governance and strategic issue for decisions and portfolio evaluation for more than a decade and our Company.
were early adopters of this approach.
We maintain a view on carbon pricing using a carbon price protocol, which we update Our GMC has primary responsibility for the design and regularly.
Our carbon price protocol tracks the progress of national implementation of an effective position and response to climate, emissions reduction ambitions to tackle climate change throughout and accountability for performance against GHG emissions, the world, including in our major operating regions and customer our climate change metric.
We also seek input and insight from demand centres.
In parallel, we look at the potential for reductions external experts, such as the Forum on Corporate Responsibility.
in emissions and the cost associated with those reductions to determine an appropriate long-term price level.
We carry out this assessment for various scenarios which reflect the effectiveness and ambition of policies, the timing to implement reductions, the interaction between policy mechanisms and the role of low carbon technologies.
We have an integrated approach to addressing climate change that has three key areas mitigation, adaptation and low-emissions technology.
52 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.14.2 Governance continued Mitigation Adaptation As a major producer and consumer of energy, we prioritise BHP Billitons corporate strategy is based on owning and operating GHG reductions and energy efficiency.
long-life assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
Our success over many years can be attributed to the way we BHP Billiton is among the sector leaders in setting an absolute have successfully adapted to the changing business landscape.
target to limit our GHG emissions.
As we grow our business, Building resilience to the physical impacts of climate change this target encourages us to look for ways to improve our energy is just as essential to long-term business success.
efficiency, increase productivity and implement additional GHG reduction projects across our operations.
All our Businesses are We take a multifaceted approach to climate change adaptation, required to identify, evaluate and implement suitable GHG building resilience across activities both within our operations reduction opportunities, including during project design and and investments, and outside of our operational control in our equipment selection.
We seek to leverage many of our established core business processes such as risk and planning.
In FY2015, the Groups total GHG emissions were 38.3 million tonnes Climate risks may occur as a result of acute extreme weather Mt of carbon dioxide equivalent COe.
Taking into account the 2 events e. g. floods and cyclones : chronic incremental changes impact of the demerger, this represents a six per cent reduction in climate conditions, which may progressively increase risk over on FY2014 GHG emissions.
For the purposes of the FY2014 time e. g. changes to temperature : and cumulative impacts from comparison, emissions from assets demerged with South32 for the the interaction of direct and indirect climate impacts e. g. changes period 1 July 2014 to 30 April 2015 were annualised.
This reduction to water availability.
Our analysis has found that climate change has been driven in part by GHG reduction projects across our will exacerbate existing risks while also exposing our Businesses Businesses and improved productivity.
For example, cyclone management is critical for our a GHG Scope 1 and 2 millions of tonnes COe Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO Asset and maintaining adaptive 2 management practices will allow WAIO to respond to the expected b Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 2013 increase in cyclone intensity in the Pilbara.
We also require new c Scope 1 20.7 22.7 22.0 investments to assess risks associated with the forecast impacts d of climate change.
For example, during the project design, Scope 2 17.6 22.3 24.7 identification and assessment of increasing storm intensity and Total GHG millions of tonnes COe 38.3 45.0 46.7 2 storm surge levels resulted in raising the height of the trestle at our Hay Point coal port facility in Queensland, Australia, as a Measured according to the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
part of our expansion plans.
b Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations.
c Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from our operated assets.
Effective analysis of climate science is critical to our resilience d Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased planning and we take care to understand what variables and electricity and steam that is consumed by our operated assets.
analysis make the most sense to our business.
We are currently working with the CSIRO Australias national science agency In line with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006, our to obtain analyses of the climate science.
This will inform climate reported FY2015 GHG intensity was 3.8 tonnes of COe per tonne 2 resilience planning at an asset level, improving our understanding of copper equivalent production FY2014: 4.9 tonnes of COe.
2 of the material climate vulnerabilities that face our Businesses.
Our reported FY2015 energy intensity was 30 petajoules per million tonnes of copper equivalent production.
Copper equivalent Technology production has been based on FY2013 average realised product Technology and innovation have the potential to significantly prices.
Rather than use an intensity metric, we have set ourselves reduce global emissions and meet long-term climate goals.
a challenging goal to limit our overall emissions by keeping our Given that fossil fuels are likely to continue to be a significant absolute FY2017 GHG emissions below our FY2006 baseline while part of the energy mix for decades, it is vital that low-emissions we continue to grow our business.
technologies LET are available at scale, lower cost and much faster than the usual commercial time frames to meet the challenge of A key example of our ongoing activity to reduce GHG emissions climate change.
Industry has a significant collaborative role to play is our Fuel Quality Network that brings people together from across with government, academia and the community to facilitate this our Company to understand and test the benefits of improving necessary step change.
Our investigations have shown that improving fuel chemistry can deliver significant reductions in diesel exhaust Since 2007, we have spent over US$400 million on LET research, particulates and GHG emissions.
We estimate that improving development and deployment across a number of projects ranging the quality of fuel delivered to our mobile plants has the potential in scale and complexity.
For example, the West Cliff Ventilation Air to reduce energy consumption across the Company by around Methane Project WestVAMP first piloted at Illawarra Coals Appin 4,600 terajoules TJ per annum and reduce GHG emissions by Colliery in 2001, utilises 20 per cent of available mine ventilation air approximately 320,000 tonnes of COe per annum.
In addition, 2 to produce electricity.
This reduces the sites overall GHG emissions the Fuel Quality Network will help us to achieve cost savings footprint by removing the methane from mine ventilation air.
in maintenance operations and deliver improved productivity.
BHP Billiton is also part of ONE Future, a coalition of companies Projects and initiatives such as these keep us on track to achieve from across the natural gas industry in the United States focused on our GHG emissions reduction target.
We are committed to identifying solutions for fugitive methane emissions management.
continued focus on the delivery of GHG reduction opportunities ONE Future has developed an approach, that if widely adopted, within our Businesses.
could lower the total methane emissions of participating coalition companies to less than one per cent of gross production.
In addition to identifying opportunities within our Company, we also seek to contribute to global GHG emissions reductions.
To build upon this contribution to the development of LET, We are currently implementing a strategy to support REDD we have recently established an integrated strategy that considers Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, investment across a range of technologies that can lead to material an international mechanism that provides economic, social and emissions reductions in our operations and across our supply environmental incentives for developing countries to reduce GHG chains.
When evaluating opportunity areas for potential investment, emissions from deforestation and related activities through the we look at several different factors, including the potential to creation of carbon credits.
Through project support, improved impact upon global emissions and the opportunity to use our governance and climate finance market stimulation, BHP Billiton own skills and expertise to accelerate the change required, is playing a role in reducing deforestation, enhancing community including our expertise in geology, engineering and markets.
livelihoods and improving biodiversity and watershed conservation.
BHP Billiton and the International Finance Corporation are exploring ways of stimulating demand for REDD credits to support forest protection and conservation.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 53 1 Strategic Report continued 1.14.2 Governance continued We also seek to leverage our investments with the contribution Our analysis highlights that our uniquely diversified portfolio of of suitable partners, including governments, peers and research high-quality assets is robust across our scenarios and is highly organisations.
The focus for us is to consider the catalytic role unlikely to result in BHP Billiton assets being stranded.
In a scenario that BHP Billiton can play in working with others to accelerate where there is strong impetus to develop and implement cleaner, the deployment of technology to address material sources more energy efficient solutions and unified societal action to address of emissions.
climate change, our analysis indicates that there is a potential of upside for uranium, our high-quality hard coking coal and iron Our roadmap for investment includes the development and ore lump product.
Copper is resilient and would offer continued demonstration of carbon capture and storage CCS technologies, opportunity for growth and our gas exposure may yet provide the reduction of fugitive methane emissions from coal and opportunities during a transition to a lower carbon economy.
petroleum operations, high-efficiency low-emissions power In aggregate, we anticipate these commodities are robust and generation, low-emissions transportation and improvement provide options that could mitigate potential negative impacts and application of battery storage to enhance the wider on other commodities.
Regardless of the path the world chooses, we are committed CCS can play a pivotal role in reducing emissions from oil and to reducing our own emissions and to supporting global gas production, and from the use of fossil fuels in power generation efforts to reduce general emissions.
The key components of CCS capture, transport and storage of CO have all been demonstrated 2 1.14.3 Health and safety successfully for many years.
The challenge for large-scale Keeping our people and operations safe deployment of CCS technology in the power and industrial sectors is the integration of the key components of CCS and appropriate The health and safety of our people and of the broader communities in which we operate is central to every aspect of our business.
commercial and regulatory support to foster further development.
Regardless of where our people are located, the area of the Addressing the key barriers to deployment regulatory uncertainty, organisation in which they work, or the type of work they undertake, cost and stakeholder concern is essential if CCS is to become we strive to create an environment that is free from occupational a global mitigation tool at the scale required to make a meaningful harm.
However, we do recognise that environments we operate contribution to long-term climate goals.
We have previously in can be hazardous.
contributed to the development of CCS in both Australia and Despite our goal to achieve zero work-related fatalities, tragically the United States and we are a founding member of CO2CRC, we lost five of our colleagues in FY2015.
Four fatalities occurred one of the worlds leading collaborative research organisations during on-site work activities and one fatality occurred in an focused on long-term geological storage of carbon dioxide.
Independent investigations Portfolio evaluation were undertaken for each incident, with remedial action taken As well as taking action to reduce emissions, build resilience to and findings from the investigations shared across the Group.
the physical impacts of climate change, develop and deploy LETs In FY2014, we had no work-related fatalities at our operated and support an effective global response, we continue to identify assets, a goal that we will continue to work towards.
and assess the impacts of climate change on our portfolio.
As part of our ongoing focus to eliminate fatal and other serious The starting point of our corporate planning process is the incidents, a Company-level safety intervention was initiated in construction of a central case based on extensive analysis and FY2015.
The safety intervention was launched with engagement research.
Our current central case assumes the US economy across our business through a variety of methods, including continues to recover and strengthen, progressive development workshops, team talks and surveys.
Feedback was presented of China and India, integration of emerging economies into at our senior leaders meeting in July 2015, identifying the key a multi-polar economic environment, and action on climate controls, programs, systems, processes and tools currently change centred on national policies.
in place that require improvement and Company-wide adoption through focused leadership.
Our corporate planning process uses scenario analysis to encompass a wide spectrum of potential outcomes for key global Safety risk controls for Company-wide risks are included in our Safety uncertainties.
Designed to interpret external factors including GLD and serve as the minimum mandatory controls.
Each Business technical, economic, political and governance trends facing the is required to assess whether additional controls are required to global resources industry, the scenarios offer a means by which manage risks and to meet the objective of no fatalities.
to explore potential portfolio discontinuities and opportunities, During FY2015, our overall total recordable injury frequency TRIF as well as to test the robustness of decisions.
Our scenarios do performance of 4.1 injuries per million hours worked improved by not constitute preferred outcomes for BHP Billiton.
The scenarios two per cent compared with FY2014.
Over the past five years, our are designed to be divergent, but also plausible and internally TRIF has reduced by 18 per cent.
consistent, spanning unique potential future business environments.
Total recordable injury frequency per million hours worked According to independent bodies such as the International Energy a Agency IEA, fossil fuels will continue to supply a significant amount Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 2013 of the worlds energy for decades.
This is the case even in the IEAs Total recordable injury frequency TRIF 4.1 4.2 4.6 450 Scenario, under which the world achieves a two degrees Celsius outcome.
Oil, coal and gas are likely to continue to a Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the constitute a significant part of the energy supply mix in countries financial years being reported.
like China and India, notwithstanding strong growth in renewables.
Focusing on the health of our people Given the ongoing role of fossil fuels, and the many uncertainties We want our people to be fit for work and make sure their work facing not only the resources sector but the world in general, does not negatively impact their health or wellbeing now or accurately predicting how the world will respond to the challenge in the future.
posed by climate change is difficult.
Our scenario planning approach endeavours to consider a range of potential outcomes in order to During FY2015, we continued to establish, maintain and review our understand the impacts on our portfolio and the critical signposts exposure profiles and manage significant health risks.
The minimum we must monitor in order to respond in a timely and effective way.
mandatory controls contained within our Health GLD are structured around three principal aims: the prevention of illness from exposure: ensuring people are fit for work: and returning people to work after illness or injury.
These principal aims form the cornerstone of our health risk management framework.
54 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.14.3 Health and safety continued In FY2012, we established a health target baseline and committed The second target is at a wider Group level and is a voluntary to reduce potential occupational exposure to carcinogens and commitment to financing the conservation and ongoing airborne contaminants by 10 per cent by FY2017.
In FY2015, management of areas of high biodiversity and ecosystem value the number of potential exposures to carcinogens and airborne that are of national or international conservation significance.
contaminants requiring the use of personal protective equipment In FY2012, we established an alliance with Conservation International reduced by 40 per cent compared with our FY2012 baseline.
to support the delivery of this target and improve our approach to We have therefore exceeded our target to date.
While good biodiversity management more broadly.
As a result, we will improve progress has been made in relation to occupational exposures our environmental performance and broaden our contributions to carcinogens and airborne contaminants, we remain vigilant to lasting environmental benefits beyond what could be achieved in adopting and maintaining effective exposure controls.
As of FY2015, we have committed more Our FY2015 results are due to a number of initiatives across than US$35 million to conservation, in addition to the environmental our operations, details of which can be found in our management activities at our operations.
A central part of our approach to managing our impacts on land In FY2015, the incidence of employee occupational illness was and biodiversity is the rehabilitation of land no longer required for 4.93 per million hours worked, an increase of 74 per cent our activities.
Our Businesses are required to maintain rehabilitation compared with FY2014.
Noise induced hearing loss cases plans that support life-of-asset and closure plans.
This includes increased significantly due to a more accurate assessment rehabilitating disturbed areas that are no longer required for triggered by incorrectly applying our hearing loss criteria in our operational purposes, consistent with the pre-disturbance previous years at some assets.
Our reduction in musculoskeletal land use or alternate land use, while taking into account regulatory illnesses was primarily due to the introduction of a multifaceted requirements and stakeholder expectations.
As at the end of FY2015, control program at one of our assets.
our total land rehabilitated was 40,800 hectares, a five per cent increase since FY2014, on the total area rehabilitated.
a Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 2013 Water Noise induced hearing loss 3.05 0.68 0.51 The sustainability of our operations relies on our ability to obtain Musculoskeletal 1.52 1.61 1.24 an appropriate quality and quantity of water, use it responsibly and Other illnesses 0.36 0.55 0.64 manage it appropriately, including taking account of natural supply variations.
As economies and populations continue to expand and Total 4.93 2.84 2.39 pressure for water becomes more intense, we recognise the role we have as responsible stewards of the water we share with our a Includes data for Continuing and Discontinued operations for the financial years being reported.
We anticipate climate change is likely to make the patterns and cycles of water flow less predictable and require our operations to implement adaptive responses.
Managing our 1.14.4 Environment shared water resources is therefore a complex task for our business.
We seek to demonstrate our environmental responsibility by To manage our shared water resources, our operations are required minimising our environmental impacts and leaving lasting benefits.
to assess the direct, indirect and cumulative impacts and risks to We approach our environmental management in ways that address water resources.
We do this by understanding the social, cultural, our responsibilities to firstly understand and minimise impacts, and, ecological and economic values of these resources at a catchment secondly to contribute more broadly as environmental stewards.
level within our area of influence.
Based on the risks and impacts, We complement our core business processes of risk management, our operations apply a mitigation hierarchy: implement controls and corporate planning, community development and stakeholder and monitor their effectiveness.
At the operational level, we maintain engagement with the minimum mandatory requirements for quantitative water balance models to predict and support the environmental management of our Environment GLD.
In this GLD, management of water inputs, use and outputs and to enable timely we take a risk-based approach and emphasise implementation of management responses to water-related risks.
Where possible, the mitigation hierarchy to avoid, minimise and rehabilitate direct, we seek to use lower-quality or recycled water to minimise indirect and cumulative impacts within our area of influence across extraction requirements from higher-quality water resources.
both short-term and long-term business horizons.
We require Recognising the regional nature of our water risks, we introduced our Businesses to set target environmental outcomes for land, a target in FY2013 requiring our operations with water-related biodiversity, water resources and air, and prevent or minimise material risks to implement projects to reduce their impact on GHG emissions, including in project design.
Where unacceptable associated water resources.
The target allows our Businesses impacts remain to important biodiversity and ecosystems, to annually review and focus on the water challenges specific we apply compensatory actions to address the residual impacts.
to the regions in which they operate.
Further discussion on Biodiversity management projects implemented as part of our water target can be found A sustainable society depends on biodiversity and its associated in our Sustainability Report 2015. ecosystem services, such as food, air and water.
Similarly, our We report on our water use publicly, consistent with the Input operations depend on and have the potential to impact biodiversity Output model of the Minerals Council of Australias Water and its related ecosystem services.
We are working with the ICMM We have two targets focused on biodiversity that acknowledge the to support broader adoption across the industry.
The WAF aims importance of maintaining the unique ecosystems and biodiversity to improve data integrity and comparability across the sector to of the areas in which we operate and the importance of conserving allow a more meaningful analysis on which to base policy making these more broadly.
The first target requires the development and deliver improved outcomes.
and maintenance of land and biodiversity management plans Under the WAF, water is categorised as Type 1 close to drinking that include controls demonstrating application of the mitigation water standards, Type 2 suitable for some purposes, and Type 3 hierarchy to manage the biodiversity and ecosystem impacts unsuitable for most purposes.
In FY2015, our total water input of our operations.
This target is supported by the requirements water intended for use was 340,200 megalitres across the Group, of our Environment GLD.
In FY2015, consistent with our target, with 85 per cent defined as Type 2 or Type 3.
Our use of Type 2 and all operations developed land and biodiversity management plans.
Type 3 water demonstrates our approach to utilising lower-quality water wherever feasible.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 55 1 Strategic Report continued 1.14.4 Environment continued 1.14.5 Society Responsibly managing hydraulic fracturing We strive to be a valued partner in the communities in which we operate and, through all our interactions, seek to foster meaningful, Since 2011, we have conducted onshore shale operations in the long-term relationships that respect local cultures and create lasting Eagle Ford, Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville shale operations benefits.
We believe this is fundamental to being a responsible according to our North America Shale Operating Principles.
corporate citizen and is a clear demonstration of Our Charter values.
These principles state our commitment to safety, and to protect the land where we operate, safeguard and manage water resources, Engaging effectively in communities minimise air emissions from our operations, and be a good Our Community GLD prescribes an inclusive and proactive approach neighbour to our host communities.
We construct and operate to stakeholder engagement.
We seek to build connections with our facilities in an environmentally sensitive manner.
We conduct stakeholders early in the life cycle of our operations, maintain open environmental assessments, and prepare plans with controls and ongoing communications with them, and operate transparently to minimise impacts to air, water, land and biodiversity.
in relation to our plans and performance.
In order to be effective We publicly report the ingredients of the fracturing fluids from each and reach as many people as possible, we ensure these well completion into FracFocus, the hydraulic fracturing chemical engagement activities are culturally and socially inclusive.
We dont use benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene Our stakeholder engagement process requires our assets and or xylene BTEX or diesel in our fracturing fluids, and we work operations to identify and analyse stakeholder groups to determine with our service companies to reduce toxicity of fracturing fluids the level of impact the Company has on them and their level where possible.
of interest in engaging with us.
Each asset and operation then We check every well we drill against our list of critical elements designs community engagement activities suitable for each to ensure well integrity and the safety of our operations.
Our of the stakeholder groups and individuals, where appropriate.
Groundwater Risk Management Plan incorporates controls to Through engagement, with our host communities we also prevent the loss of containment of pressurised fluids, including: develop an understanding of the social and economic casing annulus monitoring procedures to verify well integrity: environment, including potential impacts and opportunities.
proper wellhead and casing design and construction: and To measure the effectiveness of our engagement and community specialised training to assure competency.
During FY2015, we development activities, our operations are required to complete voluntarily implemented a pre-drilling groundwater monitoring a community perception survey every three years.
These surveys program in the active drilling areas of the Eagle Ford, Permian provide a valuable external perspective on the quality of our and Haynesville shale operations to establish a baseline engagement and whether our stakeholders believe we are of groundwater quality.
To improve management of water resources and reduce fresh Respecting human rights water demand at our Eagle Ford operations, we implemented BHP Billitons corporate responsibility to respect human rights a mobile reverse osmosis system to produce potable water is embedded within the Companys systems and processes and and treat waste water for reuse in drilling and completions aligns with the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global at our drilling camps, while reducing trucking of water and waste.
The UN Guiding Principles on Business and In our Permian shale operation, we use predominately a blend Human Rights require companies to address three aspects to fulfil of brackish water and recycled produced water for our drilling their responsibility to respect human rights: express a commitment and completions operations.
to human rights through a policy statement: perform human The majority of our air emissions relate to GHG emissions from rights due diligence to identify, prevent, mitigate and account fuel combustion, flaring and venting during well construction for potential human rights impacts: and provide remediation and production.
We reduce methane emissions across our shale where business enterprises have been identified as having caused operations by capturing and selling the produced natural gas or contributed to adverse human rights impacts.
We meet these that would otherwise be vented or flared.
requirements by embedding them into our Company systems and processes.
At our Permian shale operation, we increased the percentage of produced water sent through pipeline to disposal, eliminating BHP Billitons commitment to human rights is publicly stated in a portion of trucking to disposal wells, which also contributed to our Code of Business Conduct the Code, which clearly outlines GHG reductions.
We utilise temporary pipelines instead of trucks our responsibilities and expectations.
All employees and certain throughout our shale operations to supply water to our construction contractors are provided with the Code on commencement operations.
This reduces air emissions and relieves traffic stress of employment with BHP Billiton, and it is a condition of that on local roads and communities.
employment that they behave in accordance with the Code.
Annual risk-based Code of Business Conduct training and We accept the scientific basis for linking seismic activity to waste communication plans must be completed and executed by water injection wells associated with unconventional oil and gas each area of the Group.
In addition, we measure effectiveness production.
As such, we conduct enhanced seismicity monitoring and obtain assurance of our human rights processes through and other types of data acquisition to better understand and the internal audits of our GLDs.
mitigate the risk of the potential for induced seismic activity associated with waste water disposal operations.
We actively As part of our human rights due diligence process, our operations participate in cooperative efforts with stakeholders industry, are required to identify and document key potential human rights government, science community and the public to better risks by completing a Human Rights Impact Assessment HRIA.
understand and promote best practice risk management in This includes assessing performance against the articles of the our operations.
UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact principles, and host country legislation governing human rights issues.
We require each HRIA to be reviewed internally on an annual basis.
Every three years, each HRIA is required to be verified through an engagement process with stakeholders and, in mediumand high-risk jurisdictions, validated by a qualified human rights specialist.
Where a HRIA identifies a material risk, a Human Rights Management Plan is required to be implemented and reviewed annually.
Selected employees and contractors receive training on compliance with BHP Billitons human rights commitments.
56 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.14.5 Society continued Managing our security-related material risks Respecting customary rights The nature and global reach of our organisation can result in our At a very early stage of a project, we seek to identify customary people working in countries where there is potential exposure owners, occupiers and users of the land on which we intend to to personal and business risks.
We require an assessment of each operate, as well as conduct land usage surveys.
Knowing who is country for the degree of risk associated with visiting, exploring connected to the land and how it is used is critical to establishing and operating within it, and appropriate controls are developed effective community consultation and engagement.
This helps to to mitigate identified risks.
ensure people potentially affected by our operations are fully aware of our activities and have an opportunity to express their concerns Through our commitment to the Voluntary Principles on Security and aspirations.
and Human Rights VPs, we seek to protect people and property In instances where land may be used for customary purposes from material security-related risks.
Performance requirements related to the VPs are implemented through our Security and and no formal land title has been issued, information is requested from relevant organisations, including government authorities with Emergency Management GLD.
Our operations are required to identify security-related material risks to people and property, and responsibilities for customary land uses, and Indigenous peoples representative organisations, such as land and tribal councils.
engage relevant stakeholders to develop and manage security programs that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Further enquiries are also made directly with the people in the area to help identify those with connections to the land.
Arising In addition, we require our operations to conduct an annual review from this engagement, the operational work plan may be amended for alignment with the VPs and implement an improvement plan to reduce potential impacts on landowners and users.
The process also provides an opportunity to further build awareness and understanding of the VPs across Our projects are designed in a way that avoids or minimises the Company.
resettlement of individuals or communities.
If resettlement is required voluntary or involuntary, programs must be implemented Respecting and including Indigenous communities consistent with the requirements set out in the International As many of our operations are located on or near Indigenous Finance Corporations Performance Standard 5, Land Acquisition peoples lands, it is important we recognise the traditional rights and Involuntary Resettlement.
This includes being planned and values of Indigenous peoples, respect their cultural heritage and implemented in a participatory manner that leads to and the significance of their lands and provide opportunities for a demonstrable improvement in livelihoods of the displaced inclusion and advancement.
BHP Billitons approach to engaging with and supporting Indigenous Ok Tedi peoples is articulated in our Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement, BHP Billiton exited from Ok Tedi Mining Limited OTML in February which was developed and approved by our GMC in FY2015.
The exit arrangements included the transfer of BHP Billitons Implementation of the Policy Statement will help us strengthen shares in OTML to Papua New Guinea Sustainable Development relationships with Indigenous peoples and be a valued partner Program Limited PNGSDP and a statutory undertaking protecting in their economic, social and cultural empowerment.
We are BHP Billiton from environmental claims by the PNG Government.
currently in the process of developing a Group-wide Indigenous In September 2013, the PNG Parliament passed laws which Peoples Strategy to guide implementation of the Policy Statement.
compulsorily acquired PNGSDPs shares in OTML and changed other aspects of the exit arrangements, including the repeal of As a member of the ICMM, our Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement the protection from environmental claims by the PNG Government.
is consistent with the 2013 ICMM Indigenous Peoples and Mining PNGSDP is challenging the validity of actions taken by the Position Statement and is implemented in accordance with our PNG Government to restructure and obtain control of PNGSDP.
BHP Billiton retains an indemnity from PNGSDP in respect Commitments through our Policy Statement include understanding of environmental claims by the PNG Government and certain Indigenous peoples rights and interests: building cross-cultural environmental claims by third parties.
This indemnity is secured understanding: agreeing on appropriate engagement processes: against certain key assets of PNGSDP.
BHP Billiton remains and ensuring effective participation in decision-making.
A number committed to ensuring that the substantial long-term fund held of related commitments address how we engage where government by PNGSDP remains well governed for the benefit of the people is responsible for managing Indigenous peoples interests and how of Papua New Guinea and the Western Province in particular.
to move forward when differences of opinion arise.
Making a positive contribution to society Our Policy Statement specifically addresses the issue of free, We know we are successful when our host communities value their prior and informed consent through committing to seek the relationship with us.
Our aim is to work alongside host communities consent of Indigenous peoples for new operations or major to help them achieve sustainable economic and social benefits, capital projects that are located on lands traditionally owned by, as well as diversified and resilient local economies, so that these or under customary use of, Indigenous peoples and which are benefits continue beyond the life of our operations.
Our broader likely to have significant adverse impacts on Indigenous peoples.
contribution to local economies can be realised through indirect In making this commitment, we recognise the right of governments employment and our support of local businesses that provide to ultimately make decisions on the development of resources a range of services and products, which enable our operations and that, in most countries, neither Indigenous peoples nor other to function effectively.
groups have a right to veto projects.
Where consent cannot be Our operations around the world support local and national reached, a host government may decide to proceed with a project economies through creating jobs, providing infrastructure, after balancing the rights and interests of Indigenous peoples purchasing goods and services and contributing significant with the wider population.
In these circumstances, BHP Billiton payments of taxes and royalties to governments.
By supplying will determine whether we remain involved with the project.
many of our commodities to markets in developing countries, The BHP Billiton Indigenous Peoples Policy Statement can be we also support economic development to help improve living found in our Sustainability Report 2015. standards and quality of life.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 57 1 Strategic Report continued 1.14.5 Society continued Improving the quality of life in our host communities BHP Billiton Social Investment Framework We aim to be partners with our host communities and are committed During FY2015, we developed a new BHP Billiton Social Investment to understanding their needs and priorities.
We seek to invest in Framework to guide our approach to voluntary social investment projects that will continue to promote a benefit to the community social and environmental programs with net social benefit beyond the life of the project.
Using data from a social baseline between FY2016 and FY2020, providing a unified and integrated study and social impact and opportunity assessment, we prepare framework across our Company.
The Framework is the outcome a community development management plan.
Community of an extensive review of BHP Billitons existing approach to social development projects and donations are required to be aligned investment and has been informed by a thorough analysis of to the overall community development management plan, information about our internal and external operating context.
implemented in consultation with local stakeholders, and meet Specific inputs to the review included our material sustainability our due diligence and anti-corruption requirements.
risks, emerging global trends and the stakeholder needs and expectations of our host communities.
Using this information We voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, calculated on to inform our Social Investment Framework has ensured a strong the average of the previous three years pre-tax profit, in community linkage between our business and social investment objectives.
programs that aim to have a long-lasting, positive impact on peoples quality of life, including implementing new and supporting BHP Billiton is committed to ensuring our significant social existing community projects.
With a focus on improving quality investment adds value to the communities in which we operate of life, our community development programs are developed and leaves behind a lasting change.
Details of our new Social by working openly with governments and the communities Investment Framework can be found in our Sustainability in which we operate, and focusing on the needs and resources Report 2015. of our key stakeholders.
This is how we are contributing to economic and social development.
During FY2015, our voluntary community investment totalled US$225 million, comprising US$142 million cash, in-kind support and administrative costs, and a US$83 million contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation.
The BHP Billiton Foundation was established in FY2013 to identify and support large sustainable development projects in countries and regions of interest to BHP Billiton, in order to complement the local programs managed by our assets.
This builds on contributions that have previously been paid to the BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities charitable organisation.
At the end of FY2015, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities had a total of US$62.5 million and the BHP Billiton Foundation had a total of US$219.2 million in funds available for future sustainable development projects.
Community investment US$M Year ended 30 June 2015 2014 2013 1 Expenditure including in-kind support and administrative costs 142.0 141.7 139.8 Contribution into BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities and BHP Billiton Foundation 83.0 100.0 106.0 Total Community investment 225.0 241.7 245.8 1 Includes BHP Billitons equity share for both operated and non-operated joint venture operations.
Includes payments made by operations demerged with South32.
