1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.15.1 External factors and trends continued 1.15.2 Application of critical accounting policies Following our focus on productivity and reducing costs, The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements the reduction in the Groups exploration expense, excluding requires management to make judgements and estimates and impairment of exploration expenditure previously capitalised, form assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, increased Underlying EBIT in FY2015 by US$28 million.
contingent liabilities, revenues and expenses reported in the Financial Statements.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates Interest rates its judgements and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings contingent liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is to pay its judgements and estimates on historical experience and on or receive on a US dollar floating interest rate basis.
To achieve other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, this policy, we often use derivative financial instruments, the results of which form the basis of the reported amounts that are including cross currency and interest rate swaps, to convert not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ an underlying exposure to a US dollar floating rate exposure.
from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
Deviation from our policy requires approval from our Financial The Group has identified the following critical accounting Risk Management Committee and is managed within our policies under which significant judgements, estimates and portfolio risk management approach.
assumptions are made and where actual results may differ Our earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the from these estimates under different assumptions and floating component of the Groups net borrowings.
Our main conditions and may materially affect financial results or exposure is to the 3 month US LIBOR benchmark, which increased the financial position reported in future periods: by 0.010 per cent in FY2015 to an average of 0.252 per cent.
reserve estimates: Further information, including the Groups sensitivity to movements exploration and evaluation expenditure: in interest rates, can be found in note 23 Financial risk management development expenditure: to the Financial Statements.
taxation: Health, safety, environment and community property, plant and equipment and intangible assets We operate in an industry where many of our activities are highly recoverable amount: and regulated by laws governing health, safety and the environment.
provision for closure and rehabilitation.
We are committed to compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate and, where applicable, to In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information exceeding legal and other requirements which are less stringent regarding the nature of the estimates and judgements and than our own.
However, regulatory standards and community potential impacts on our financial results or financial position expectations are constantly evolving.
As a result, we may be in the Financial Statements.
This information can be found exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen in note 44 Application of accounting estimates, assumptions environmental rehabilitation expenses, despite our best efforts and judgements to the Financial Statements.
to work with governments, community groups and scientists to keep pace with regulations, law and public expectations.
Further information about our compliance with HSEC regulations can be found in section 1.14 of this Annual Report.
Insurance During FY2015, we maintained an insurance program encompassing property damage, business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine cargo, construction, directors and officers liability and public and certain other liabilities.
The program includes a combination of self-insurance via subsidiary captive insurance companies, industry mutuals and external market insurance and reinsurance.
Mandates are established as to risk retention levels, policy cover and, where applicable, insurance and reinsurance counterparty security.
As part of our portfolio risk management approach, we regularly conduct an assessment of maximum foreseeable loss potential, cash flow at risk, loss experience, claims received and insurance premiums paid, and will make adjustments to the balance of self-insurance and external insurance and reinsurance as required.
The Group is largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage and business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine cargo, construction, primary public liability and employee benefits.
For these risks, we internally insure our Businesses for wholly owned assets and, where permissible, by local insurance regulation and or commercial market terms our share of joint venture assets via our captive insurance companies.
Any losses incurred will consequently impact the Financial Statements as they arise.
