b During the year, subsidiaries holding treasury shares of US$ nil and US$2 million in respect of ESOP Trusts for BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc respectively were converted to equity accounted investments, resulting in a transfer of these shares from Treasury shares to shares held by the public.
c An Equalisation Share US$0.50 par value has been authorised to be issued to enable a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under the terms of the DLC merger.
The Directors have the ability to issue the Equalisation Share if required under those terms.
The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited allows the Directors of that Company to issue a similar Equalisation Share.
There has been no movement in this class of share.
d The total number of BHP Billiton Limited shares of all classes is 3,211,691,106 of which 99.99 per cent are ordinary shares fully paid 2014: 3,211,691,106, 99.99 per cent: 2013: 3,211,691,106, 99.99 per cent.
Any profit remaining after payment of preferred distributions is available for distribution to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal amounts per share.
e Each of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc issued one Special Voting Share to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
There has been no movement in these shares.
f Preference shares have the right to repayment of the amount paid up on the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority to the holders of any other class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return of capital or winding up.
The holders of preference shares have limited voting rights if payment of the preference dividends are six months or more in arrears or a resolution is passed changing the rights of the preference shareholders.
There has been no movement in these shares, all of which are held by JP Morgan Limited.
g During the period 1 July 2015 to 10 September 2015, no fully paid ordinary shares in BHP Billiton were issued on the exercise of Group Incentive Scheme awards.
