6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 22 Other financial liabilities 2015 2014 US$M US$M Current Cross currency and interest rate swaps 243 Commodity contracts 3 Other derivative contracts 5 16 Total current other financial liabilities 251 16 Non-current Cross currency and interest rate swaps 1,024 273 Commodity contracts 1 9 Other derivative contracts 6 21 Total non-current other financial liabilities 1,031 303 Refer to note 43 Significant accounting policies s. 23 Financial risk management Financial risk management strategy The financial risks arising from the Groups operations comprise market, liquidity and credit risk.
These risks arise in the normal course of business, and the Group manages its exposure to them in accordance with the Groups portfolio risk management strategy.
The objective of the strategy is to support the delivery of the Groups financial targets while protecting its future financial security and flexibility by taking advantage of the natural diversification provided by the scale, diversity and flexibility of the Groups operations and activities.
A Cash Flow at Risk CFaR framework is used to measure the aggregate and diversified impact of financial risks upon the Groups financial targets.
The principal measurement of risk is CFaR measured on a portfolio basis, which is defined as the worst expected loss relative to projected business plan cash flows over a one-year horizon under normal market conditions at a confidence level of 90 per cent.
Market risk The Groups activities expose it to market risks associated with movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and commodity prices.
Under the strategy outlined above, the Group seeks to achieve financing costs, currency impacts, input costs and commodity prices on a floating or index basis.
This strategy gives rise to a risk of variability in earnings which is measured under the CFaR framework.
In executing the strategy, financial instruments are potentially employed in three distinct but related activities.
The following table summarises these activities and the key risk management processes: Activity Key risk management processes 1 Risk mitigation On an exception basis, hedging for the purposes of mitigating risk related to Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
specific and significant expenditure on investments or capital projects will be executed if necessary to support the Groups strategic objectives.
2 Economic hedging of commodity sales, operating costs and debt instruments Measuring and reporting the exposure in customer Where Group commodity production is sold to customers on pricing terms that commodity contracts and issued debt instruments.
deviate from the relevant index target, and where a relevant derivatives market exists, financial instruments may be executed as an economic hedge to align Executing hedging derivatives to align the total the revenue price exposure with the index target.
Group exposure to the index target.
Where debt is issued in a currency other than the US dollar and or at a fixed interest rate, fair value and cash flow hedges may be executed to align the debt exposure with the Groups functional currency of US dollars and or to swap to a floating interest rate.
3 Strategic financial transactions Opportunistic transactions may be executed with financial instruments to capture Exposures managed within value at risk and value from perceived market over under valuations.
Execution of transactions within approved mandates.
Primary responsibility for identification and control of financial risks, including authorising and monitoring the use of financial instruments for the above activities and stipulating policy thereon, rests with the Financial Risk Management Committee under authority delegated by the Group Management Committee.
