6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 7.6 Independent Auditors reports B. KPMG UKs separate opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Plc Independent auditors reports of KPMG LLP KPMG UK to the in relation to IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG KPMG Australia to Standards Board IASB the members of BHP Billiton Limited For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote As explained in note 41 Basis of preparation and measurement KPMG UK in relation to UK responsibilities and reporting obligations to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and KPMG Australia in relation to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by Australian responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members the EU, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion of BHP Billiton Limited.
The BHP Billiton Group the Group consists the Group financial statements have been properly prepared, in all of BHP Billiton Plc, BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they material respects, in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
controlled from time to time during the financial year.
C. KPMG Australias opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Limited 1.
Report on the financial statements on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the Group financial statements which comprise: In our opinion: the Group Consolidated Balance Sheet at 30 June 2015: a the Group financial statements, including the Directors declaration, are in accordance with the Australian Corporations the Group Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated Act 2001, including: Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: i giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position the Group Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and as at 30 June 2015 and of its performance for the financial Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended: and year ended on that date: and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include ii complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the a summary of significant accounting policies and other Australian Corporations Regulations 2001: explanatory information.
b the Group financial statements also comply with IFRSs as issued In addition: by the IASB as disclosed in note 41 Basis of preparation KPMG UK has audited the BHP Billiton Plc company financial and measurement.
statements for the year ended 30 June 2015, which comprise the unconsolidated parent company balance sheet and related 2.
Our audit approach notes: and A.
Our assessment of the risks of material misstatement KPMG Australia considers the Directors declaration to be part In arriving at our audit opinion on the financial statements our of the Group financial statements when forming its opinion.
considerations include any changes year-on-year in the Groups operations and the broader market that may influence the audit A. KPMG UKs opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Plc on the risk profile of the Group.
Compared to the prior year, the following financial statements is unmodified elements resulted in a change in the risk of material misstatement In our opinion: and a consequential change in our audit effort: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state the demerger of South32 increased our focus on asset valuation, of the Groups and of BHP Billiton Plcs affairs as at 30 June 2015 taxation, internal controls and the financial reporting implications and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: of the transaction: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the decrease in restructuring and portfolio management, excluding in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the demerger of South32, resulted in a corresponding decrease in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU : audit effort over this risk: and the BHP Billiton Plc company financial statements have the completion of the global IT platform 1SAP project in 2014 been properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting resulted in reduced audit effort this year on IT system deployment Standards: and and development, however the effective operation of IT controls the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and processes remains a key audit focus area.
the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: The risk Our response Asset valuation Refer to note 43 Significant accounting policies Impairment and reversal of impairment of non-current assets, note 44 Application of accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements Application of critical accounting policies and estimates Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets recoverable amount and section 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Carrying value of long-term assets.
As at 30 June 2015 the Groups balance sheet includes property, Our procedures included, among others: plant and equipment amounting to US$94.1 billion and intangible Testing the design and operation of internal controls over valuation assets amounting to US$4.3 billion.
of the Groups assets including those to determine any asset impairments or impairment reversals: The assessment of the recoverable value of these assets, or for Evaluating the Groups assumptions and estimates to determine the the relevant cash-generating unit CGU, incorporates significant recoverable value of its assets, including those relating to production, judgement in respect of factors such as future production levels, cost, capital expenditure, discount rates and foreign exchange rates.
commodity prices, operating capital costs and economic assumptions such as discount rates, inflation rates and foreign This included using our corporate finance and modelling specialists to currency rates.
compare these assumptions against external benchmarks for example, commodity prices and discount rates and considering the Impairment charges recorded during the year included: assumptions based on our knowledge of the Group and its industry: Petroleum Hawkville assets US$2.3 billion and goodwill Assessing the appropriateness of the Groups identification US$0.5 billion pre tax : of individual CGUs: Nickel West US$0.4 billion pre tax : Validating the mathematical accuracy of cash flow models Other impairments US$0.8 billion pre tax.
and agreeing relevant data to the latest production plans and approved budgets: Performing sensitivity analyses on assets with a higher risk of impairment, or with the potential for a reversal of a previously recognised impairment: and Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of asset carrying values and impairment testing.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 285 7 Financial Statementscontinued 2.
Our audit approach continued The risk Our response South32 demerger related matters Refer to note 29 Discontinued operations and section 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Demerger of South32.
The demerger of South32 during the year, including the impact Our procedures included, among others: of internal restructuring activities prior to the demerger, was a Testing of the design and operating effectiveness of internal significant transaction for the Group.
controls over the separation of the South32 businesses, including the implications of IT system cut-over and data integrity: Financial reporting implications of the demerger included: Involvement of our tax specialists in relevant countries to assess Accounting for the internal restructure activities, including the tax implications of the demerger, including consideration assessment of taxation consequences: of agreements established between the Group and South32: Changes to IT systems to align reporting structures pre and Consideration of the valuation of the South32 assets prior to post-demerger and to adjust system access controls: demerger that included the use of specialists and benchmarking Quantification of the net loss on demerger, including of valuation inputs to external data: consideration of asset carrying values and transaction costs: and Testing of controls and underlying transaction data relating to the Disclosure within the financial statements, including the results of the South32 businesses for the period to demerger and classification of the South32 businesses as Discontinued assessment of the approach taken by management to restate prior and the restatement of prior period information.
periods to separately disclose Discontinued operations: The results and assets of the demerged South32 businesses Validating the mathematical accuracy of the net loss from have been recorded and disclosed as Discontinued operations Discontinued operations of US$1.5 billion: and with a net loss from Discontinued operations of US$1.5 billion.
Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures relating to asset carrying values, Discontinued operations, exceptional items and retained exposures.
Taxation Refer to note 43 Significant accounting policies Taxation, note 44 Application of accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements Application of critical accounting policies and estimates Taxation and section 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Tax and royalty liabilities.
The Group has operations in multiple countries, each with its Our procedures included, among others: own taxation regime.
The nature of the Groups activities triggers Assessing correspondence with relevant tax authorities, monitoring various taxation obligations including corporation tax, royalties, developments in legislation and the use of our own tax specialists other resource and production based taxes and employment to assess the Groups tax positions: related taxes.
The cross-border nature of the Groups commodity Evaluating the assumptions used by the Group to determine tax sales also creates complexities associated with international provisions and the amounts disclosed as contingencies, based transfer pricing.
on our knowledge and experience of the Groups operations and of the application of the relevant legislation by the respective Application of taxation legislation to the Groups affairs is authorities and or courts: and inherently complex, highly specialised, and requires judgement to be exercised in relation to estimating tax exposures and Considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in particular quantifying provisions and or contingent liabilities.
regarding current and deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and tax-related contingencies.
As at 30 June 2015, the Group has current and deferred tax assets of US$3.5 billion, current and deferred tax payable of US$4.7 billion, and has also disclosed a contingent liability of US$3.3 billion which includes tax-related exposures.
Closure and rehabilitation provisions Refer to note 43 Significant accounting policies Closure and rehabilitation, and note 44 Application of accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements Application of critical accounting policies and estimates Provision for closure and rehabilitation and 3.14.1 Risk and Audit Committee Report Significant issues Closure and rehabilitation provisions.
As a consequence of its operations the Group incurs obligations Our procedures included, among others: to restore and rehabilitate the environment.
Rehabilitation Testing of the design and operating effectiveness of internal activities are governed by a combination of legislative controls established by the Group regarding estimation of requirements and Group policies.
As at 30 June 2015, rehabilitation provisions: the Groups balance sheet includes provisions of Considering rehabilitation plans, to challenge the cost estimates US$6.7 billion in respect of such obligations.
including whether the methodology complies with Group policies and relevant legislative requirements.
We used our mine closure Estimating the costs associated with these future activities specialists to consider the appropriateness of data used in the requires considerable judgement in relation to factors such as Groups cost estimates and our corporate finance specialists to when the rehabilitation will take place, the time period required evaluate economic assumptions used in the calculation.
We have for the rehabilitation to be effective, the costs associated with also performed an assessment of the Groups previous ability to the rehabilitation activities and economic assumptions such forecast accurately: as discount rates and foreign currency rates.
Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures relating to rehabilitation obligations: and Evaluating the accounting treatment applied to changes in the rehabilitation provision, including whether the impact is expensed or capitalised.
286 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 2.
Our audit approach continued C. Scope and responsibilities B.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Directors responsibility for the financial statements of our audit The statement of Directors responsibilities in section 7.4 describes The materiality for the audit of the Group financial statements the Directors responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Report as a whole was set at US$600 million 2014: US$1 billion.
This has including the Group financial statements and the BHP Billiton Plc been determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit company financial statements collectively, the financial statements.
before taxation and exceptional items for Continuing operations The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements i. e. normalised profit, which we consider to be one of the principal which give a true and fair view in accordance with the applicable considerations for members in assessing the financial performance financial reporting frameworks and for establishing the internal of the Group.
We referred to the same benchmark in determining controls they determine necessary to enable them to be free from materiality in 2014.
Materiality represents five per cent of Group profit material misstatement whether due to fraud or error.
before tax for Continuing operations adjusted for exceptional items Auditors responsibility for the audit as defined in note 2 to the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland and Materiality for the Group financial statements Australian Auditing Standards, which includes compliance with Profit before relevant ethical standards, and to express our opinions thereon.
tax adjusted for exceptional items Scope of an audit for Continuing An audit involves planning and performing procedures, obtaining operations Materiality evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial US$11,252M US$600M Group inancial statements, sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by materiality fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and BHP Billiton Plcs circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: US$330M Materiality at the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made components by the Directors: and the overall presentation and basis of preparation of the financial statements.
US$27.5M The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the Misstatement assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial reporting threshold statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation of financial statements that gives a true and fair view in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose We agreed with the Risk and Audit Committee to report to it all of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through internal control.
our audit with a value in excess of US$27.5 million, in addition to other audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe warranted This report is made subject to important explanations regarding reporting on qualitative grounds.
our responsibilities, as published on our website at w w w. kpmg.
com uk auditscopeother2014, which are incorporated into this report In order to gain appropriate audit coverage of the risks described as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding above and of each individually significant component of the Group: of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by local basis of our opinions.
auditors at all significant components within the Group, including each Business and Group Function.
These components contribute We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient in excess of 99 per cent of the Groups consolidated revenue, and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
profit before tax for Continuing operations and total assets, 3.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements respectively.
Significant component audit teams are located A. KPMG UKs opinions on matters prescribed by the UK Companies in Australia, Canada, Chile, Singapore, the United Kingdom Act 2006 and under the terms of our engagement are unmodified and the United States.
In our opinion: Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these in-scope components.
These instructions described the significant the Directors Remuneration Report set out in section 4 of audit areas that should be covered by these audits which included the Annual Report has been properly prepared in accordance the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set with the UK Companies Act 2006: out the information required to be reported back to the Group head the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors office audit team.
The Group head office audit team was involved Report for the financial year for which the financial statements with the work undertaken by component auditors, including in are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and respect of Discontinued operations, through a combination of the the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement aforementioned formalised instructions and related interoffice set out in section 3 of the Annual Report with respect to internal reporting, regular interaction on audit and accounting matters, control and risk management systems in relation to financial periodic site visits, review of specific audit work papers and global reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent engagement team forums.
The audits undertaken for Group reporting purposes at the key reporting components of the Group were all performed to a materiality level of US$330 million, which was set by the Group head office audit team.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 287 7 Financial Statementscontinued 3.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements continued 4.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the members of BHP Billiton Plc as a body B. KPMG UK has nothing to report in respect of the matters on and BHP Billiton Limited as a body which we are required to report by exception KPMG UKs report is made solely to BHP Billiton Plcs members, as a Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the UK Companies on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified Act 2006 and, in respect of the opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued other information in the Annual Report that contains a material by the IASB, on terms that have been agreed.
KPMG Australias inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, report is made solely to BHP Billiton Limiteds members, as a body, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Our audit In particular, we are required to report to you if: work has been undertaken so that we might state to the members we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge of each company those matters we are required to state to them in an we acquired during our audit and the Directors statement that auditors report and those matters that we have each agreed to state they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements to them in respect of the opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides IASB.
Accordingly, each of KPMG UK and KPMG Australia makes the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups following statement: to the fullest extent permitted by law: we do not performance, business model and strategy: or accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company the Risk and Audit Committee report does not appropriately address and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for our matters communicated by us to the Risk and Audit Committee.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the UK Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by BHP Billiton Plc, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor the BHP Billiton Plc company financial statements and the Directors For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Remuneration Report are not in agreement with the accounting Chartered Accountants records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are London not made: or 10 September 2015 a separate Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by BHP Billiton Plc: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the UK Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement, set out in section 5.3 of the Directors KPMG Report, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to BHP Billiton Plcs compliance with the ten provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
C. KPMG Australias opinion on the Remuneration Report Anthony Young is unmodified Partner We have audited the Remuneration Report set out in section 4 of the Annual Report.
The Directors of BHP Billiton Limited are responsible Melbourne for the preparation and presentation of the Remuneration Report in 10 September 2015 accordance with Section 300A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Remuneration Report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards.
In our opinion, the Remuneration Report of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2015 complies with Section 300A of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
KPMG, an Australian partnership and KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability partnership, are member firms of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative KPMG International, a Swiss entity.
KPMG Australias liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation.
