6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 7.4 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial applicable law and regulations.
References to the Group and parent position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that company financial statements are made in relation to the Group and its financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act 2006. individual parent company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group UK company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
company financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity The Group financial statements must, in accordance with IFRS as of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys adopted by the EU and applicable law, present fairly the financial website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and position and performance of the Group: references in the UK dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Companies Act 2006 to such financial statements giving a true in other jurisdictions.
and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements must, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the parent company for the financial year.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
