1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.4.
22 Transitional GMC awards As the MAP awards that are allocated to individuals in their non-GMC management positions have a three-year service condition, and the LTIP awards provided to GMC members have a five-year service and performance condition, as a transitional step, the Remuneration Committee may determine that new GMC members recruited from within BHP Billiton receive Transitional GMC awards to bridge the gap between the two programs.
Transitional GMC awards have two tranches.
Tranche one has a three-year service and performance condition.
Tranche two has a four-year service and performance condition.
The Committee has absolute discretion to determine if the performance condition has been met and whether any, all or part of the award will vest or otherwise lapse, having regard to but not limited to BHP Billitons TSR over the threeor four-year performance period respectively, the participants contribution to Group outcomes and the participants personal performance with guidance on this assessment from the CEO.
No DEP is payable on these awards.
The treatment of Transitional GMC awards on cessation of employment will depend on the circumstances and is similar to those for LTIP awards.
If the participants employment ceases due to dismissal or resignation, any unvested awards will lapse immediately.
If the reason for cessation is death, serious injury, disability or illness, then the awards will vest in full on the date of cessation.
If the participant retires from the Group with the agreement of BHP Billiton, is made redundant or employment is terminated by mutual agreement, then a proportion of the award pro-rated to reflect the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed will continue on foot and vest, subject to the performance condition, on the future vesting date.
The remaining portion of the award will lapse.
In all other circumstances, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine the portion of the award that vests or lapses.
Awards will vest on or as soon as practicable after the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the third financial year after allocation for tranche one and the fourth financial year after vesting for tranche two if the conditions for vesting are met as described above.
The estimated vesting month is shown in the table.
No exercise requirement or expiry date applies to these awards and there is no price payable by the individual on vesting.
Where performance conditions are not met at vesting, awards will lapse.
2 Awards shown as held by Mike Fraser, Graham Kerr, and Jane McAloon are their balances at the date they ceased being KMP.
The subsequent treatment of their awards is set out in section 4.4.
