1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Equity awards provided for GMC service 4.4.
20 STI awards under the STIP and GIS Awards under the GIS will not deliver any value to the holder for at least two years from the beginning of the financial year in which they are granted unless the executives employment with the Group ends earlier in specific circumstances, such as on death, serious injury, disability or illness, retirement with the agreement of BHP Billiton and redundancy retrenchment.
In 2013 a new STIP was approved which applied from FY2014.
Awards were allocated under the STIP in December 2014.
The terms and conditions of the new STIP are largely the same as those of the GIS.
Awards made December 2013 and prior were made under the GIS.
2 Under the GIS, each employee could nominate to receive a portion of their award in the form of options with a market-based exercise price.
Where an individual has made this choice, the option exercise price payable is shown.
The exercise price is determined by the weighted average price at which BHP Billiton shares were traded over the one week up to and including the date of grant.
A greater number of options were allocated if an individual chose this alternative as opposed to choosing awards with no exercise price.
3 Awards will vest on, or as soon as practicable after, the first non-prohibited period date occurring after 30 June of the second financial year after allocation, if the conditions for vesting are met including the relevant service conditions.
The estimated vesting month is shown in the table.
The expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
4 The market price shown for grants made in FY2015 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 19 December 2014.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2014, and was A$33.60.
5 The awards granted under the GIS in December 2012 became fully vested on 20 August 2014 as the service conditions were met.
The price shown is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on that date.
6 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain of the total award is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their award.
7 The amounts shown in this column are the value of the DEP paid on the awards.
8 Awards shown as held by Graham Kerr, Jane McAloon and Karen Wood are their balances at the date they ceased being KMP.
The subsequent treatment of their awards is set out in section 4.4.
18 of the FY2014 or FY2015 report as applicable.
