4 Remuneration Report continued Equity awards provided for pre-GMC service 4.4.
23 STI awards under the GSTIP The table below shows GSTIP awards that were held by the executives at the time that they were appointed to the GMC or which were allocated in relation to performance and service before they became GMC members.
Prior to their appointment as members of the GMC, the individuals shown in the table below received STl awards under the GSTIP which has applied for the non-GMC management of BHP Billiton since the awards allocated in FY2009 in relation to FY2008 performance.
The terms and conditions of the GSTIP awards are essentially the same as those provided under the GIS and the STIP.
Under each plan, participants must satisfy applicable STl performance conditions in order to be eligible for any award.
Due to changes in the GSTIP, which applied to all participants in that plan, no DEP is payable on the GSTIP awards that were allocated in FY2012 in relation to FY2011 performance or since that time.
The estimated vesting month is shown in the table.
Where applicable, the expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third anniversary of that vesting date.
2 The market price shown for grants made during FY2015 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 3 November 2014.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2014, and was A$33.60.
No exercise requirement or expiry date applies to these awards as described above the table.
3 The awards granted under the GSTIP in October 2012 became fully vested on 20 August 2014 as the service conditions were met.
The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain of the total award is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the award vested.
4 Awards shown as held by Mike Fraser and Jane McAloon at 30 June 2015 are their balances at the date they ceased being KMP.
The subsequent treatment of their awards is set out in section 4.4.
5 The awards shown for Mike Henry and Graham Kerr with a grant date of 22 August 2013 had this allocation date due to administrative reasons, but were made on the same basis as if they had been made on 5 December 2012.
6 The opening balance of awards for Athalie Williams reflects her holdings on the date she commenced being KMP.
