1 Strategic Report continued 1.1 Chairmans Review BHP Billiton is a global company that values our host communities.
Our tax payments are just one part of the contribution we make to the communities in which we operate.
We paid more than US$7.3 billion to governments worldwide in 2015.
BHP Billiton is one of Australias largest taxpayers.
In addition, we invested more than US$225 million in local communities across the world on projects that include improving access to education and healthcare.
Climate change remains a strategic consideration for your Board.
We understand the importance of reducing the Companys greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring the resilience of our business.
Policy measures are also needed to effect reductions in emissions.
We are contributing to practical and effective policy development and supporting the efforts of nations to reach a global agreement in Paris in December 2015.
It is with profound sadness that the Board pays tribute to Sir John Buchanan after his passing in July 2015.
Sir John served as a Non-executive Director of BHP Billiton from 2003 up until the time of his death and was the Senior Independent Director Dear Shareholder of BHP Billiton Plc.
Sir John provided wise counsel to his fellow In the past year, we have seen continued growth in the global Directors and to management and we will miss him greatly economy despite significant drops in commodity prices and both personally and for his invaluable contribution as a Director.
volatility in currency and financial markets.
I would also like to thank Keith Rumble and Carlos Cordeiro for At last years Annual General Meetings I said, Events this year their valuable contribution over the years.
Keith Rumble retired FY2014 have been a reminder of how uncertain and volatile politics from the Board in May this year, while Carlos Cordeiro will retire and economics can be.
This year, those trends have accelerated.
after the Annual General Meetings later this year.
In line with While this level of uncertainty in the global economy can be our planned approach to Board succession, we appointed unsettling, for over 130 years your Company has demonstrated Anita Frew to the Board as a Non-executive Director with effect the ability to successfully overcome difficult challenges.
Anitas depth of experience in strategic and risk management, marketing and governance across a broad Against this backdrop, in FY2015 we set production records across many of our operations.
This, combined with a focus on range of sectors will enable her to make a significant contribution to the Board.
We also announced that Shriti Vadera will assume productivity, offset some of the downturn in commodity prices.
While our financial performance was impacted by market the role of Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc.
conditions, continued improvements in operational performance, The results you will read about in this Report are due to the efforts productivity and higher production produced an Attributable profit of all our employees and contractors, led by Andrew Mackenzie.
of US$1.9 billion and Net operating cash flows of US$19.3 billion.
Through their efforts, your Company contributes to stronger We increased our full-year dividend by two per cent to 124 US cents economies and improved living standards around the world.
This is in addition to the pro rata, in-specie distribution Your Board is confident in the outlook for BHP Billiton and we of South32 shares to eligible shareholders during the year.
thank you for your continued support of the Company.
Your Company is in a strong financial position.
We have lower debt, a strong balance sheet and solid cash flows.
While we are taking an even more focused approach to capital allocation, we continue to invest in those projects that we expect to provide superior long-term returns.
The focus on simplification and productivity saw Jac Nasser AO the demerger of South32 in May 2015.
This transaction significantly Chairman simplified our portfolio, enabling us to focus on generating more value from our large-scale, high-quality assets while allowing shareholders continued ownership of South32s operations.
Tragically five of our colleagues died at work in FY2015.
On behalf of the Board, I extend my deepest sympathy to their families and friends.
Your Directors and your management team are committed to a safe workplace.
