1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report The Chairmans meetings are scheduled throughout the year 3.3 Shareholder engagement to ensure continual feedback.
This is designed to ensure that Part of the Boards commitment to high-quality governance is governance issues can be discussed separately to the AGM expressed through the approach BHP Billiton takes to engaging and, where appropriate, allows time to respond to feedback and communicating with shareholders.
We encourage shareholders and shape new policies for the forthcoming financial year.
to make their views known to us.
During FY2015, the Chairmans meetings included investors in Australia and the United Kingdom.
Alongside these meetings, Our shareholders are based across the globe.
Outside of the two members of the Group Governance and Investor Relations AGMs, which are an important step in the governance and investor teams met with shareholders in South Africa, the United States, engagement process, the Board uses a range of formal and informal Netherlands, France and Sweden.
communication channels to understand shareholder views to ensure it can represent shareholders in governing BHP Billiton.
As a Group, we take a coordinated approach to engagement Regular proactive engagement with institutional shareholders and on corporate governance, and during the year responded investor representative organisations takes place in Australia, South to a wide range of shareholders, their representatives and Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Issues covered included of these meetings is to discuss the full range of governance issues, climate change and strategic risk assessment: safety: biodiversity: as well as the broad strategy of the Group.
The meetings are water management: hydraulic fracturing: long termism: tax: an important opportunity to build relationships and to engage remuneration: and collective bargaining.
directly with governance managers, fund managers and The Company provides shareholders with the option to receive governance advisers.
The meetings are led by: communications from, and send communications to, the Company the Chairman, supported by the Group Governance and our registrar electronically.
Shareholders can contact us at any and Company Secretariat team strategy, governance time through our Investor Relations team, with contact details and remuneration: available on our website: w w w. bhpbilliton.
Feedback from shareholders is regularly reported to the Board.
Shareholder and the Remuneration Committee Chairman or Senior Independent Director governance and remuneration: analyst feedback is shared with the Board through the Chairman, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, other Directors, the CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, senior management the CEO, the CFO and the Group Company Secretary.
In addition, and the Investor Relations team strategy, financial and operating the Head of Investor Relations and Vice President Governance performance.
Important briefings are webcast live from our provide regular reports to the Board on shareholder and governance website: w w w. bhpbilliton.
During FY2015, meetings between manager feedback and analysis.
This approach provides a robust management and shareholders were held in Australia, Canada, mechanism to ensure Directors are aware of issues raised and have China, Germany, Japan, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, a good understanding of current shareholder views.
Meetings between management and bondholders were held in Australia, Canada, China, France, Annual General Meetings Germany, Singapore, the UK and the US as part of our As described above, a key part of our approach to governance commitment to engage with providers of all types of capital: involves shareholders views being heard and understood.
the Head of Health, Safety and Environment HSE HSE and The AGMs provide an important forum to facilitate this.
Each year, we conduct Our Dual Listed Company DLC structure means that we hold two group and one-on-one meetings and briefings with investors AGMs each year.
The AGMs are important dates in the BHP Billiton focused on key HSEC issues.
During FY2015, these took place calendar.
These meetings provide an update for shareholders in Australia, France, South Africa and the UK, with additional on the Groups performance and offer an opportunity for meetings in mainland Europe held by conference call: shareholders to ask questions and vote.
Group Governance and Company Secretariat governance Questions can be registered prior to the meeting by completing the strategy and briefings.
The Governance and Company Secretariat team provides a conduit to enable the Board and its committees relevant form accompanying the Notice of Meeting.
Shareholders can also email the Group at in vestor.
to remain abreast of evolving investor expectations and to continuously enhance the governance processes of the Group.
Questions can be lodged ahead of the meeting.
Retail investors Sell side analysts Proxy advisers Research providers Institutional investors Governance advisers Governance ratings agencies Portfolio managers ESG managers Investor Relations Group Governance and Company Secretariat meetings and correspondence meetings and correspondence CEO CFO Senior Management Chairman Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee Chairman Board Annual General Meetings BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 141
