2 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Proved undeveloped reserves The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves including Coal Resources and Coal Reserves presented in this Annual Report has At 30 June 2015, Petroleum had 626 MMboe of proved undeveloped reserves, which represented 33 per cent of our year-end 2015 been produced in accordance with the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing Rules Chapter 5 and the Australasian Code proved reserves of 1,908 MMboe.
Approximately 373 MMboe or 60 per cent of the proved undeveloped reserves resides primarily for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves, December 2012 the JORC Code.
Commodity prices in our conventional offshore fields in Australia, the Gulf of Mexico and Trinidad and Tobago, while 253 MMboe or 40 per cent reside and exchange rates used to estimate the economic viability of reserves are based on asset-defined or BHP Billiton long-term in our North American shale fields.
The Ore Reserves tabulated are held within existing, The current proved undeveloped reserves reflect a net reduction permitted mining tenements.
The Group's mineral leases are of 334 MMboe from the 960 MMboe reported at 30 June 2014. of sufficient duration or convey a legal right to renew for sufficient This reduction was the combined result of development activities duration to enable all reserves on the leased properties to be mined that converted 121 MMboe of proved undeveloped to proved in accordance with current production schedules.
Our Ore Reserves developed reserves, downward proved undeveloped reserves may include areas where some additional approvals remain revisions of 361 MMboe primarily driven by the decline in product outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations prices in FY2015 and reductions in our planned Onshore US drilling we carry out as part of our planning process, and our knowledge program in response to the lower price environment.
The Onshore and experience of the approvals process, we expect that such US portion of these reductions totalled 356 MMboe.
Partially approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business offsetting the reductions were new additions of 148 MMboe and within the time frame required by the current schedule.
as extensions discoveries and improved recovery for new development projects, including 102 MMboe for new drilling The information in this Annual Report relating to Mineral Resources locations in our Onshore US fields which extended the proven and Ore Reserves is based on, and fairly represents information area of the fields all of which will be drilled within five years, and supporting documentation compiled by Competent Persons and the approval of the Greater Western Flank Phase 2 project as defined in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons have, in Australia, which added 38 MMboe which is reported as at the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to the style a discovery.
Also included were an extension of reservoir limits of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and in the Atlantis field, which added 5 MMboe: and an improved to the activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent recovery project in the Shenzi field, which added 4 MMboe, Person.
At the reporting date, each Competent Person listed in this both of which are in the Gulf of Mexico.
Annual Report is a full-time employee of BHP Billiton or a company in which BHP Billiton has a controlling interest unless otherwise Of the 626 MMboe currently classified as proved undeveloped at noted.
Each Competent Person consents to the inclusion in this 30 June 2015, 225 MMboe has been reported for five or more years.
Annual Report of the matters based on their information in the All of these reserves are in our offshore conventional fields that are form and context in which it appears.
currently producing or have significant development in place, All of the Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves presented are reported which are scheduled to start producing within the next five years.
The largest component of this is 133 MMboe in the Kipper-Tunain 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at 30 June 2015 unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes are reported as dry metric Turrum project in Bass Strait, Australia.
This project is expected to be on production in 2016 when the gas conditioning plant tonnes unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade information has been rounded, hence small differences may be present is completed.
The Atlantis field in the Gulf of Mexico contains 31 MMboe, which is actively being drilled.
The remainder resides in the totals.
All of the Mineral Resources information is inclusive of Mineral Resources that have been converted to Ore Reserves in other Australian offshore fields that have active development plans.
Our North American shale fields do not contain any proved i. e. Mineral Resources are not additional to Ore Reserves.
The information contained herein differs in certain respects from undeveloped reserves that have been reported for five or more years.
In addition, management plans anticipate drilling all the that reported to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, which is prepared with reference to the SEC's Industry Guide 7. proved undeveloped reserves in the North American shale fields in the next five years, with none of the proved undeveloped BHP Billiton applies governance arrangements and internal controls to verify the estimates and estimation process for Mineral Resources reserves being more than five years old at the time they are drilled.
These include: During FY2015, Petroleum continued active development standard company procedures for public reporting aligned of our inventory of proved undeveloped projects by converting with current regulatory requirements: 121 MMboe to proved developed reserves.
Over the past three independent audits of new and materially changed estimates: years, the conversion of proved undeveloped to developed has totalled 636 MMboe, averaging 212 MMboe per year.
In currently annual reconciliation performance metrics to validate reserves estimates for operating mines: producing conventional fields, the remaining proved undeveloped reserves will be developed and brought on stream in a phased internal technical assessments of resources and reserves manner to best optimise the use of production facilities and estimates for each asset scheduled every two years.
During FY2015, Petroleum spent Technology, Geoscience and Engineering TGE provides US$4.5 billion on development activities worldwide.
governance and functional leadership for resource planning and development and Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves reporting to support the above controls.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves projects and mining operations assigned to South32 in May 2015 as part of the demerger are not reported as at 30 June 2015 because those projects and mining operations are no longer owned or operated by BHP Billiton.
For further information on the South32 demerger, refer to sections 1.3.
