1 Strategic Report continued 1.5 Strategy and business model 1.5.
1 Our consistent strategy Our purpose Our values Our corporate purpose is to create long-term shareholder value In pursuing our strategy through all stages of the economic and through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing commodity cycles, we are guided by Our BHP Billiton Charter of natural resources.
values of Sustainability, Integrity, Respect, Performance, Simplicity and Accountability.
Our strategy Our overriding commitment is to ensuring the safety of our people, Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, and respecting our environment and the communities in which we expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, work.
This commitment informs everything we do and influences geography and market.
Our unique position in the resources industry is due to our proven Operational capability is fundamental to our strategy.
It is reflected and consistent strategy.
In line with our strategy, we pursue growth in Our Charter, in particular our values of Performance achieving opportunities consistent with our core skills of: superior business results by stretching our capabilities, and evaluating, developing and extracting resources in our Simplicity focusing our efforts on the things that matter most.
Businesses: distributing and selling our products, and managing financial risk Our success factors associated with our revenue through Marketing: We are successful when: defining and governing world-class functional standards, which our people start each day with a sense of purpose and end are implemented Group-wide through our Group Functions.
the day with a sense of accomplishment: our communities, customers and suppliers value their We operate in a dynamic, globally competitive environment.
relationships with us: Our strategy has delivered strong Company performance over time which, in turn, underpins the creation of long-term sustainable our asset portfolio is world-class and sustainably developed: value for our shareholders, customers, employees and the our operational discipline and financial strength enables our communities in which we operate.
We aim to deliver long-term future growth: and sustainable value rather than focusing on short-term returns.
our shareholders receive a superior return on their investment.
12 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 1.5.
2 Our business model Extraction, processing Development Exploration and evaluation Marketing and logistics and transportation Exploration and evaluation Extraction, processing and transportation Discovery through brownfield and greenfield exploration.
Extracting conventional and unconventional oil and gas.
Our portfolio of existing assets in large resource basins provides Across our global operations, the diversification of our portfolio us with potential growth opportunities.
This has allowed us to of assets by commodity, geography and market continues to be reduce our greenfield exploration expenditure and rationalise one of our differentiating features.
Our goal is to safely operate our brownfield exploration program.
We continue to focus all our assets at capacity through mining, extracting, processing our greenfield exploration on copper in Chile, Peru and the and transporting commodities.
southwestern United States, and conventional oil and gas, We continue to set production records at a number of assets.
predominantly offshore in the Gulf of Mexico, Western Australia Through the development and use of standard operating practices and Trinidad and Tobago.
We evaluate the results of our brownfield and technology, we are driving efficiencies through improved and greenfield exploration to identify future growth projects capital intensity, labour productivity and increased utilisation consistent with our strategy to own and operate large, of plant and machinery.
long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets.
We also Our extraction and processing activities are mindful of our continually evaluate our portfolio and consider divestment ongoing sustainability obligations, including rehabilitation and acquisition opportunities.
at the end of the asset life.
Development Marketing and logistics Evaluating and developing projects.
BHP Billitons Marketing organisation is responsible for: Developing the Group-wide view of the markets and The evaluation and development of large-scale resource projects future pricing.
generates significant value for BHP Billiton.
We have a number Supporting the Businesses to maximise the value of upstream of high-quality growth projects currently under development.
We also have a large number of growth opportunities in our project pipeline in varying stages of evaluation.
Managing the supply chain to customers.
Achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products.
In our development process, these projects progress through Selling the Groups products and purchasing all major raw feasibility to execution only after internal and external approvals.
Our rigorous internal review process requires projects to pass through various tollgates for internal approvals at each stage, Managing price risk.
including Board approval for major projects.
Due to its proximity to our customers in Asia, the primary hub Potential expansion projects must compete for capital within for our marketing activities is Singapore, while our marketing BHP Billiton and approved only if they meet our strict criteria of oil and gas is headquartered in Houston, United States.
In addition, we have marketers located close to our customers in nine cities around the world.
Marketings responsibilities require an active presence in the various commodities markets, the global freight market and the crude and gas pipeline transportation market, through which we manage the supply chain for our products and develop strong integrated relationships between our Businesses and our customers.
Our market insight is strengthened by the multi-commodity nature of our organisation, our proximity to our customers and the flow of information in our centralised marketing structure.
A description of our risk factors, including those that impact our business model, and our approach to risk management are presented in section 1.7 of this Annual Report.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 13 1 Strategic Report continued 1.5.
3 External factors and trends Economic outlook higher temperatures.
In addition national governments have already introduced or are contemplating the introduction of, regulatory The global economy grew at a modest rate in FY2015 with a mild responses to greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of improvement in developed economies offsetting a moderation fossil fuels to address the impacts of climate change.
There has also in emerging markets.
been a number of divestment campaigns that have focused on fossil In China, a slowdown in the property sector and fixed asset fuels stranded assets.
We continue to welcome the opportunity investment led to lower economic growth following policy to engage with our shareholders on our business strategy to ensure tightening in CY2014.
Consumer spending remained resilient the benefits and resilience of our portfolio, including in a carbon reflecting the continued rebalancing of the economy.
A number constrained world, are understood.
of interest rate reductions, cuts in bank reserve requirements, Other external factors and trends boosts to infrastructure spending and administrative measures supporting the property market are likely to buttress growth over A number of external factors and trends may continue to have a material impact on our financial and operational results, the remainder of CY2015.
In line with our expectations, the economy is growing more slowly as it matures over the medium as described in section 1.15.1 of this Annual Report.
These factors include commodity prices, exchange rates, and operating costs.
term and the governments reform program promotes domestic consumption over investment.
We expect the authorities will The chart below presents the price movements in our core Business continue to press ahead with reform in a cautious but sustained commodities over the past 10 years.
Over this period we have manner as they seek to improve the efficiency of capital allocation benefited from generally strong commodity prices, which have in the economy, while maintaining support for employment.
trended downwards in FY2015 and this trend has continued post The US economy continued to improve despite weakness in the 30 June 2015.
March 2015 quarter caused by severe weather in the northeast and a stronger US dollar.
Ongoing strength in the labour market, Commodity prices 2006 2015 rising disposable incomes, higher equity markets and improved Iron ore, Metallurgical coal, housing prices supported consumer demand.
After a period Energy coal, Crude oil Copper, Gas in which businesses failed to respond to improved economic US$ unit US$ unit conditions and higher levels of profitability, corporate investment has begun to show signs of recovery.
The Federal Reserve is 300 18 expected to begin increasing interest rates in the first half of CY2016.
250 15 The European Central Bank began a program of quantitative easing in March 2015, which appears to be driving a modest pick-up in economic growth.
Activity has improved across the 200 12 Eurozone, with the exception of Greece, reflecting a broad-based lift in domestic demand.
We expect this improvement in growth 150 9 to continue in FY2016.
Japans economy saw growth improve in annualised terms as the 100 6 year progressed, supported by the Bank of Japans quantitative easing and a weaker yen.
Growth should be supported by stronger 50 3 business investment into FY2016.
A longer-term, sustainable recovery is contingent on the scale and speed of structural reform.
0 0 Climate change 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The physical impacts of climate change and various regulations that seek to address climate change may affect our operations, Iron ore Metallurgical coal Gas productivity and the markets in which we sell our products.
Energy coal Crude oil Copper Physical effects may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, rising sea levels, increased storm intensities and A summary of the pricing trends for our most significant commodities for FY2015 is presented in section 1.15.1 of this Annual Report.
4 Corporate planning At BHP Billiton we have a long-standing and robust corporate Corporate planning framework planning process that underpins the development and delivery A Board Strategy Forum is held regularly where the Board and of our strategy.
the GMC actively discuss and debate the Companys strategy.
Businesses prepare long-term plans and discuss these plans Our planning process involves a review of our strategy against at strategic reviews with the GMC.
a constantly changing external environment and the risks and opportunities this presents, to optimise our returns A BHP Billiton 20-year Plan is prepared based on input from the to our shareholders.
Businesses long-term plans and is optimised for an annual capital allocation limit that maximises total shareholder returns, while Core principles ensuring financial risks are appropriately mitigated.
Within this The corporate planning cycle embodies the following capital ceiling, major growth options are optimally sequenced core principles: over the 20-year Plan through our capital allocation process.
Board and GMC ownership and regular review of strategy The capital allocation process includes analysis of net present value and strategic priorities.
NPV, internal rates of return IRR, return on capital ROC and Regular engagement between the GMC, Businesses, Group margin analysis to inform decision-making.
This process is further Functions and Marketing.
All available growth Application of a consistent and integrated planning process options are assessed and prioritised to generate a high-value and where Business, Group Functions and Marketing plans are capital-efficient portfolio, which provides flexibility to return excess aggregated to form the overall corporate plan.
The increased competition for capital has Cycle begins with long-term strategic plans followed improved our capital productivity.
by short-term plans to deliver strategic imperatives.
Ensure our portfolio and plans are resilient under both long-term scenarios and short-term shock events.
14 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report M A C R O G n R I o N i S t a c o l l 1.5.
4 Corporate planning continued The flowchart below illustrates our corporate planning framework.
Board Strategic Planning 20 years Business Directional Plans and Strategy Reviews Reviewed under divergent scenarios Maximise shareholder returns Business Delivery Appraisals Business Plans and two-year Budget We believe that the rigour of our corporate planning process, High, sustainable economic growth is unlocked by productivity combined with the flexibility it provides the Company to quickly gains in advanced economies.
Reform success in India achieves respond to an inherently dynamic external environment, high transformative growth.
Parts of the global resource base is essential to maximise total shareholder returns.
are not as accessible as once thought.
Rapidly growing production rates of some commodities deplete basins and reserve The starting point of our planning process is the construction replacement is costly.
More difficult to access capital in resource of a central case, built through an in-depth, bottom up analysis rich economies given greater uncertainty in regulatory regime using rigorous processes, benchmarked with external views, and and higher capital costs.
Technology development is focused thoroughly reviewed and endorsed periodically by the GMC and on highly differentiated products including uptake and transfer the Board.
Our current central case assumes the US economy of information and communications technology ICT, robotics continues to recover and strengthen, progressive development and bio-technology.
There is less technology transfer from the of China and India, integration of emerging economies into major economies to emerging economies.
a multi-polar economic environment, and action on climate A future state enmeshed in economic stagnation and change centred on national policies with short-term prioritisation protectionism.
Nationalism drives economic policy rather than to adaptation and a long-term shift toward mitigation.
Security of supply rather than lowest cost sourcing Scenarios drives resources investment policy.
Global cooperation is limited Our corporate planning process uses scenario analysis to and research and development dwindles with low private sector encompass a wide spectrum of potential outcomes for key global capacity and government support.
Food and water supply does uncertainties.
Designed to interpret external factors including not meet global requirements provoking instability in some technical, economic, political and governance trends facing the economies.
Climate change commitments are abandoned global resources industry, the scenarios offer a means by which to in favour of adaptation.
explore potential portfolio discontinuities and opportunities, as well Tracking of signposts trends and triggers events across scenarios as to test the robustness of decisions.
is integral to our planning process.
These signposts and triggers Our scenarios do not constitute preferred outcomes for BHP Billiton.
provide an indication of which scenarios are becoming more The Companys approach to critical global challenges, such as or less dominant through time.
They allow early awareness for the the importance of addressing climate change, continues to be move towards a scenario, offering us a powerful decision-making based on Our Charter values, including our value of Sustainability.
tool that would enable us to act early.
For example, the nature Our position on climate change is discussed further in sections 1.6.
1 and pace of growth in global foreign direct investment, including and 1.14 of this Annual Report.
patent, trademark and design application trends by industry are indicator variables that measure the pace of uptake of global and The scenarios are designed to be divergent, but also plausible inter-regional technology transfer, a signpost that reflects the and internally consistent, spanning unique potential future nature and extent of liberalised trade.
An example of a potential business environments.
An outline of the key characteristics trigger event is a ratified accord on climate change during the of each of our scenarios is set out below: 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Robust global economic growth sustains strong impetus to Conference of the Parties, and binding agreements on longer-term develop and implement cleaner, more energy efficient solutions carbon emissions targets were enacted across key economies.
Unified societal action to address climate change leads to high cooperation and commitment to limit Our analysis highlights that our uniquely diversified, high-quality portfolio of assets is robust across each of our scenarios.
Technology plays a pivotal role with breakthroughs in new, next generation clean energy technologies.
Higher-cost example, in a carbon constrained world, we believe there is a likelihood of upside for uranium and our high-quality hard coking options are often deployed to meet lower CO stabilisation targets.
2 coal with lower smelting emissions and iron ore lump product There is an orderly transition to a two degrees Celsius world.
for direct blast furnace feed.
In addition, we expect that copper Strong global growth led by China and the United States would be resilient and offer continued opportunity for growth, underpinned by liberalised trade.
Coordination in environment, while our gas exposure may yet provide opportunities during a technology and trade policy reduces water and food constraints.
In general, we anticipate Technology dynamism with significant investment in research that these commodities are robust and could help mitigate and development underpinned by high economic growth, potential negative impacts in other commodities.
and a coordinated response to addressing climate change.
