1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 3.15 Risk management governance structure We believe the identification and management of risk are central Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes, to achieving the corporate purpose of creating long-term performance requirements and independent controls to provide shareholder value.
Our approach to risk is set out in section 1.7.
1. assurance to the Board and the RAC as to the integrity of our reporting and effectiveness of our systems of internal control The principal aim of the Groups risk management governance and risk management.
Some of the more significant internal structure and internal control systems is to identify, evaluate control systems include Board and management committees, and manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value Business RACs and internal audit.
of shareholders investments and safeguarding assets.
Business Risk and Audit committees Each year, the Board reviews and considers the Groups risk profile, The Business RACs assist the RAC to monitor the Groups which covers both operational and strategic risks.
The Group material obligations in relation to financial reporting, internal control risk profile is assessed to ensure it supports the achievement of the structure, risk management processes and the internal and Groups strategy while seeking to maintain a solid A credit rating.
The Boards approach to investment decision-making and portfolio management, and the consideration of risk in that process, is set out Board committees in sections 1.6.
4 and 1.7 and includes a broad range of scenarios to Directors also monitor risks and controls through the RAC, assess our portfolio.
This process allows us to be able to continually the Remuneration Committee and the Sustainability Committee.
adjust the shape of our portfolio to match energy and commodity Management committees demand and meet societys expectations, while maximising shareholder returns.
Management committees also perform roles in relation to risk and control.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management changes in our business environment are regularly reviewed to the RAC, although the Board retains overall accountability by the GMC and discussed by the Board.
The Financial Risk for the Groups risk profile.
In addition, the Board specifically Management Committee FRMC reviews the effectiveness requires the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying of internal controls relating to commodity price risk, counterparty and managing risk.
The Directors, through the RAC, review the credit risk, currency risk, financing risk, interest rate risk and systems that have been established for this purpose, regularly insurance.
Minutes of the FRMC meetings are provided to the review the effectiveness of those systems and monitor that Board through the RAC.
The Investment Committee IC provides necessary actions have been taken to remedy any significant oversight for investment processes across the Company and failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
The RAC coordinates the investment toll-gating process for major regularly reports to the Board to enable it to review the Groups investments.
Reports are made to the Board on findings by the risk framework.
IC in relation to major capital projects.
The Disclosure Committee The RAC has established review processes for the nature oversees the Groups compliance with securities dealing and and extent of material risks taken in achieving our corporate continuous and periodic disclosure requirements, including purpose.
These processes include the application of materiality reviewing information that may require disclosure through stock and tolerance criteria to determine and assess material risks.
exchanges and overseeing processes to ensure information Materiality criteria include maximum foreseeable loss and residual disclosed is timely, accurate and complete.
risk thresholds and are set at the Group level.
Tolerance criteria additionally assess the control effectiveness of material risks.
The diagram below outlines the risk reporting process.
Board Annual Report 3.14.1 Risk and Audit 3.14.4 Sustainability Committee Report Committee Report The Board is satis ied the a robust independent assurance e ectiveness of the internal and audit process established controls has been properly by the RAC.
HSEC only CEO GMC Group Board Governance Document CEO Limits Opinion on eectiveness of internal controls Risk 66.
The CEO will not permit the Group to operate Conclusion Pro ile unless there is in place a system of control for RAA is of the view that managements internal Review identifying and managing the risks that are material control systems are operating adequately.
to the achievement of the Corporate Purpose and strategy and plans.
Group Risk Business Group Pro ile Risk Function Management Risks Plan Group Business Business Asset RACs Risk Pro ile Risk Pro ile Risk Pro ile Half-yearly BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 159
