6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 41 Basis of preparation and measurement 42 Functional and presentation currency Basis of preparation Currency of presentation This general purpose financial report for the year ended 30 June 2015, All amounts are expressed in millions of US dollars, unless otherwise has been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of the the requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001, and the Groups operations.
UK Companies Act 2006 and with: Foreign currencies Australian Accounting Standards, being Australian equivalents The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency of to International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations the majority of its operations is the US dollar as this is assessed as issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board AASB to be the principal currency of the economic environments in effective for the year ended 30 June 2015: which they operate.
International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as Transactions denominated in foreign currencies currencies other adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 30 June 2015: than the functional currency of an operation are recorded using International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations the exchange rate ruling at the date of the underlying transaction.
as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board effective Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are as of 30 June 2015. translated using the rate of exchange prevailing at year-end and the The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively gains or losses on retranslation are included in the income statement, referred to as IFRS in this report.
with the exception of foreign exchange gains or losses on foreign currency provisions for site closure and rehabilitation, which are Comparative information for the years ended 30 June 2014 and capitalised in property, plant and equipment for operating sites.
30 June 2013 has been restated for the effects of the application of IFRS 5 AASB5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Exchange variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate Operations following the demerger of South32.
The Consolidated of the net investment in each subsidiary, joint arrangement and Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance associate, arising after 1 July 2004, are accounted for in accordance Sheet and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for with the policy stated below.
Exchange variations arising before this these periods are not required to be restated.
date were transferred to retained earnings on 1 July 2004, being the date of transition to IFRS.
The principal accounting standards or interpretations that have been adopted for the first time in these financial statements are: Subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates that have functional Amendments to IAS 32 AASB 132 Financial Instruments: currencies other than US dollars are foreign operations and translate Presentation clarify the criteria for offsetting financial assets their income statement items to US dollars using the exchange rate and liabilities: and prevailing at the date of each transaction.
Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates prevailing at year-end.
Exchange IFRIC 21 Levies confirms that a liability to pay a levy is only variations resulting from the retranslation at closing rate of the net recognised when the activity that triggers the payment occurs.
investment in foreign operations, together with differences between The adoption of IFRIC 21 and the amendments to IAS 32 did not their income statement items translated at actual and closing have a material impact on the BHP Billiton Group and therefore no rates, are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
restatements have been made to the prior year financial statements For the purpose of foreign currency translation, the net investment related to these changes.
in a foreign operation is determined inclusive of foreign currency intercompany balances for which settlement is neither planned nor There are no new accounting standards or interpretations likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
The balance of the foreign impacting the Group in the financial years commencing from currency translation reserve relating to a foreign operation that is 1 July 2015.
The following new accounting standards are not disposed of, or partially disposed of, is recognised in the income yet effective, but may have an impact on the Group in financial statement at the time of disposal.
years commencing from 1 July 2016 or later: IFRS 15 AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which modifies the determination of when to recognise revenue and how much revenue to recognise.
The core principle is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to the customer of an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
IFRS 9 AASB 9 Financial Instruments modifies the classification and measurement of financial assets.
It includes a single, principles-based approach for the classification of financial assets, which is driven by cash flow characteristics and the business model in which an asset is held.
It also introduces a new expected loss impairment model requiring expected losses to be recognised when financial instruments are first recognised.
The new standard also modifies hedge accounting to align the accounting treatment with risk management practices of an entity.
The Group is currently in the process of determining the potential impact of adopting the above standards.
These standards have not been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
IFRS 9 has not been endorsed by the EU and hence is not available for early adoption in the EU.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are drawn up on the basis of historical cost principles, except for derivative financial instruments and certain other financial assets, which are carried at fair value.
Any non-current assets or disposal groups which are classified as held-for-sale or  are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Rounding of amounts Amounts in these financial statements have, unless otherwise indicated, been rounded to the nearest million dollars.
