4 Remuneration Report continued 4.4 Annual report on remuneration This section of the Report shows the impact of the remuneration policy in FY2015 and how remuneration outcomes are linked to actual performance outcomes.
Contents of the annual report on remuneration 4.4.
11 Remuneration outcomes for the Executive Director the CEO 4.4.
13 Remuneration outcomes for Non-executive Directors 4.4.
18 Remuneration for members of the GMC other than the CEO 4.4.
31 Other statutory disclosures Remuneration governance 4.4.
1 Board oversight and the Remuneration Committee The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Groups remuneration arrangements are equitable and aligned with the long-term interests of BHP Billiton and its shareholders.
In performing this function, it is critical that the Board is independent of management when making decisions affecting remuneration of the CEO, the other members of the GMC and the Groups employees.
The Board has therefore established a Remuneration Committee to assist it in making such decisions.
The Committee is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
In order to ensure that it is fully informed, the Committee regularly invites members of management to attend meetings to provide reports and updates.
The Committee can draw on services from a range of external sources, including remuneration consultants.
Remuneration Committee The activities of the Remuneration Committee are governed Remuneration Carolyn Hewson member to 31 December 2014 by Terms of Reference most recently approved by the Board Committee members and Chairman from 1 January 2015 in June 2013, which are available on our website.
The purpose John Buchanan Chairman to 31 December 2014 of the Committee is to assist the Board in its oversight of: and member from 1 January 2015 Carlos Cordeiro the remuneration policy and its specific application to the Pat Davies CEO, the other members of the GMC and its general application John Schubert to 31 December 2014 to all Group employees: Shriti Vadera from 1 January 2015 the determination of levels of reward for the CEO and approval of reward to the other members of the GMC: Number of meetings Seven in FY2015 the annual evaluation of the performance of the CEO, by providing guidance to the Group Chairman: Other Directors Jac Nasser Chairman and employees communication with shareholders on the Groups remuneration Andrew Mackenzie CEO who regularly policy and the Committees work on behalf of the Board: Athalie Williams President, Human Resources 1 attended meetings from 1 January 2015 to 30 June 2015 and the Groups compliance with applicable legal and regulatory Chief People Officer from 1 July 2015 requirements associated with remuneration matters: Mike Fraser President, Human Resources the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be included to 31 December 2014 in the Groups Annual Report: Andrew Fitzgerald Vice President, Group Reward the review, at least annually, of remuneration by gender.
Jane McAloon President, Governance and Group Company Secretary to 31 May 2015 The use of remuneration consultants Margaret Taylor Group Company Secretary The Committee seeks and considers advice from independent from 1 June 2015 remuneration advisers where appropriate.
Remuneration Geof Stapledon Vice President, Governance consultants are engaged by, and report directly to, the Committee.
1 These individuals were not present when matters associated with their Potential conflicts of interest are taken into account when own remuneration were considered.
remuneration consultants are selected, and their terms of Section 3.14.2 for further information engagement regulate their level of access to, and require their regarding the Committee independence from, BHP Billitons management.
The advice and recommendations of external advisers are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Director.
Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee to act as an independent remuneration adviser to provide specialist remuneration advice and does not provide other services to the Group.
Kepler Associates parent Mercer, a member of the MMC Group of companies, currently provides human resources services to the Group.
Kepler Associates is a member of the UK Remuneration Consultants Group, and adheres to its Code of Conduct.
During the year, Kepler Associates provided advice and assistance to the Committee on a wide range of matters, including: advice in regard to remuneration arrangements for the CEO and the members of the GMC: benchmarking of pay of senior executives against comparable roles at a range of relevant comparator groups, including sector and size peers: provision of information and commentary on global trends in executive remuneration: calculation of fair values for accounting and remuneration setting purposes of equity awards and performance analysis for LTI awards: assistance in the determination of the remuneration framework for KMP for South32: review of, and commentary on, management proposals: other ad-hoc support and advice as requested by the Committee.
Kepler Associates is the only remuneration consultant appointed by the Committee.
Management also appoints external firms from time to time to assist with remuneration benchmarking, data provision and the like.
While other external firms did provide certain information to management to assist them in deliberations, no remuneration adviser other than Kepler Associates provided remuneration recommendations during the year in relation to KMP.
