7 Financial Statementscontinued 42 Functional and presentation currency continued Exchange rates The following exchange rates relative to the US dollar have been applied in the financial statements: Average Average Average year ended year ended year ended As at As at As at 30 June 2015 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 30 June 2015 30 June 2014 30 June 2013 a Australian dollar 0.84 0.92 1.03 0.77 0.94 0.92 Brazilian real 2.68 2.29 2.04 3.14 2.20 2.18 Canadian dollar 1.17 1.07 1.00 1.24 1.07 1.05 Chilean peso 604 532 479 635 551 504 Colombian peso 2,257 1,935 1,814 2,585 1,881 1,923 Euro 0.84 0.74 0.77 0.89 0.73 0.77 South African rand 11.45 10.39 8.84 12.24 10.60 10.00 UK pound sterling 0.64 0.62 0.64 0.64 0.59 0.66 a Displayed as US$ to A$1 based on common convention.
43 Significant accounting policies a Consistent application of accounting policies Revenue is therefore generally recognised when title passes.
In the majority of sales for most commodities, sales agreements specify The accounting policies have been consistently applied by all that title passes on the bill of lading date, which is the date the entities included in the Group consolidated financial statements commodity is delivered to the shipping agent.
For these sales, and are consistent with those applied in all prior years presented.
revenue is recognised on the bill of lading date.
For certain sales b Comparatives principally coal sales to adjoining power stations, title passes Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure and revenue is recognised when the goods have been delivered.
or present them on the same basis as current period figures.
In cases where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow The financial statements for the years ended 30 June 2014 and for an adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the goods 30 June 2013 have been restated for the effects of the application by the customer for instance an assay for mineral content, of IFRS 5 AASB 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued recognition of the sales revenue is based on the most recently Operations following the demerger of South32.
Refer to note 29 determined estimate of product specifications.
The nature of each change reflected For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a in the restated financial statements is as follows: provisional basis at the date of sale and adjustments to the sales All income and expense items relating to South32 have been price subsequently occurs based on movements in quoted market removed from the individual line items in the income statement.
or contractual prices up to the date of final pricing.
The period The post-tax profit loss of South32 is presented as a single between provisional invoicing and final pricing is typically between amount in the line item entitled Loss profit after taxation from 60 and 120 days.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised Discontinued operations: and based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
All cash flows and other items relating to South32 have been The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally removed from the individual line items in the cash flow statement.
priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity The net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment financing activities of South32 are each disclosed in single amount is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised in each section of the consolidated cash flow statement.
as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
The balance sheet, the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of changes in equity for these periods are not required Revenue is not reduced for royalties and other taxes payable from to be restated.
c Principles of consolidation The Group separately discloses sales of Group production from The financial statements of the Group include the consolidation of sales of third party products because of the significant difference BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries.
in profit margin earned on these sales.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either parent entity.
Control e Depreciation of property, plant and equipment exists where either parent entity is exposed, or has rights to, variable The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are depreciated returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful lives of to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary.
A parent the specific assets concerned, or the estimated life of the associated entity has power over the subsidiary, when it has existing rights to mine, field or lease, if shorter.
Estimates of residual values and useful direct the relevant activities of the subsidiary.
The relevant activities lives are reassessed annually and any change in estimate is taken are those which significantly affect the subsidiarys returns.
The ability into account in the determination of remaining depreciation charges.
to approve the operating and capital budget of a subsidiary and Depreciation commences on the date of commissioning.
The major the ability to appoint key management personnel are decisions that categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on demonstrate that the Group has the existing rights to direct the relevant a unit of production and or straight-line basis using estimated lives activities of a subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated indicated below.
However, where assets are dedicated to a mine, financial report from the date control commences until the date field or lease and are not readily transferable, the below useful lives control ceases.
Where the Groups interest is less than 100 per cent, are subject to the lesser of the asset categorys useful life and the the interest attributable to outside shareholders is reflected in life of the mine, field or lease: non-controlling interests.
The effects of all transactions between entities within the Group have been eliminated.
Buildings 25 to 50 years Land not depreciated d Sales revenue Plant and equipment 3 to 30 years straight-line Revenue from the sale of goods and disposal of other assets Mineral rights and petroleum interests based on reserves on a is recognised when persuasive evidence usually in the form unit of production basis of an executed sales agreement of an arrangement exists and: Capitalised exploration, evaluation based on reserves on a there has been a transfer of risks and rewards to the customer: and development expenditure unit of production basis no further work or processing is required by the Group: the quantity and quality of the goods has been determined with reasonable accuracy: the price is fixed or determinable: collectability is reasonably assured.
268 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 43 Significant accounting policies continued f Exploration and evaluation expenditure If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the Exploration and evaluation activity involves the search for mineral income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance and petroleum resources, the determination of technical feasibility sheet to its recoverable amount.
A reversal of a previously recognised and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
impairment loss is limited to the lesser of the amount that would Exploration and evaluation activity includes: not cause the carrying amount to exceed a its recoverable amount: researching and analysing historical exploration data: or b the carrying amount that would have been determined net gathering exploration data through topographical, geochemical of depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised for the and geophysical studies: asset or cash-generating unit.
exploratory drilling, trenching and sampling: Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained determining and examining the volume and grade of the resource: from the sale of the asset in an orderly transaction between market surveying transportation and infrastructure requirements: participants.
Fair value for mineral assets is generally determined conducting market and finance studies.
as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a prospects, and its eventual disposal, using assumptions that an specific exploration area are charged to the income statement.
independent market participant may take into account.
These cash Initial payments for the acquisition of intangible lease assets flows are discounted at an appropriate rate to arrive at a net present are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated of capitalised licence and lease costs is charged to the income future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the statement as incurred except in the following circumstances, asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is in which case the expenditure may be capitalised: determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups In respect of minerals activities: continued use and cannot take into account future development.
The exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair interest which was previously acquired as an asset acquisition value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to or in a business combination and measured at fair value on give a different result usually lower to a fair value calculation.
acquisition: or In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment The existence of a commercially viable mineral deposit calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred has been established.
Cash-generating units are the smallest In respect of petroleum activities: identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that The exploration and evaluation activity is within an area generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash of interest for which it is expected that the expenditure inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
will be recouped by future exploitation or sale: or The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates Exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage and assumptions, including: which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence Estimates assumptions: Basis: of commercially recoverable reserves.
Future production proved and probable reserves, Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered resource estimates and, in certain to be a tangible asset is recorded as a component of property, cases, expansion projects plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, Commodity prices forward market and contract prices, and it is recorded as an intangible asset such as certain licence and longer-term price protocol estimates lease arrangements.
In determining whether the purchase of an Exchange rates current forward market exchange rates exploration licence or lease is an intangible asset or a component Discount rates cost of capital risk-adjusted appropriate of property, plant and equipment, consideration is given to the to the resource substance of the item acquired not its legal form.
Licences or leases purchased, which allow exploration over an extended period of time, h Leased assets meet the definition of an intangible exploration lease asset where Assets held under lease, which result in the Group receiving they cannot be reasonably associated with a known resource substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset minerals or reserves petroleum.
All capitalised exploration and finance leases, are capitalised at the lower of the fair value evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
of the property, plant and equipment or the estimated present When a potential impairment is indicated, assessment is performed value of the minimum lease payments.
for each area of interest in conjunction with the group of operating assets representing a cash-generating unit to which the exploration The corresponding finance lease obligation is included within interest is attributed.
Exploration areas in which reserves have been bearing liabilities.
The interest component is charged to financial discovered but require major capital expenditure before production expenses over the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest can begin, are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial on the remaining balance of the obligation.
quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration Operating lease assets are not capitalised and rental payments are work is under way or planned.
To the extent that capitalised included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expenditure is no longer expected to be recovered, it is charged lease term.
Provision is made for the present value of future operating to the income statement.
lease payments in relation to surplus lease space, when it is first g Impairment and reversal of impairment of non-current assets determined that the space will be of no probable future benefit.
Operating lease incentives are recognised as a liability when received Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
and subsequently reduced by allocating lease payments between In addition, formal impairment tests for all assets are performed rental expense and reduction of the liability.
when there is an indication of impairment.
The Group conducts an internal review of asset values annually, which is used as a source i Taxation of information to assess for any indications of impairment or reversal Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and of previously recognised impairment losses.
External factors, such deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except as changes in expected future prices, costs and other market factors, to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment or reversal in which case the tax is recognised in equity.
of previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income exists, an estimate of the assets recoverable amount is calculated, for the year using rates enacted or substantively enacted at being the higher of fair value less direct costs of disposal and the period end, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect assets value in use.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 269 7 Financial Statementscontinued 43 Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, activity.
The identification of components is dependent on the providing for the tax effect of temporary differences between mine plan and will often comprise a separate pushback or phase the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting identified in the plan.
purposes and the amounts used for tax assessment or deduction There are two types of stripping activity: purposes.
Where an asset has no deductible or depreciable amount Development stripping is the initial overburden removal during for income tax purposes, but has a deductible amount on sale or the development phase to obtain access to a mineral deposit abandonment for capital gains tax purposes, that amount is included that will be commercially produced.
in the determination of temporary differences.
The tax effect of Production stripping is the interburden removal during the certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally with normal course of production activity.
Production stripping respect to: goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial commences after the first saleable minerals have been recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a business extracted from the component.
combination or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit : and temporary differences relating to investments Development stripping costs are capitalised as a development in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to the extent that the stripping asset when: Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and It is probable that future economic benefits associated with it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the the asset will flow to the entity: and foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based The costs can be measured reliably.
on the expected manner and timing of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, with the exception of items Production stripping can give rise to two benefits being the that have a tax base solely derived under capital gains tax legislation, extraction of ore in the current period and improved access using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at period end.
to the ore body component in future periods.
To the extent that To the extent that an items tax base is solely derived from the the benefit is the extraction of ore the stripping costs are recognised amount deductible under capital gains tax legislation, deferred as an inventory cost.
To the extent the benefit is improved access tax is determined as if such amounts are deductible in determining to future ore, the stripping costs are recognised as a production future assessable income.
stripping asset if the following criteria are met: It is probable that the future economic benefit improved access A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is to ore will flow to the entity: probable that future taxable profits will be available against which The component of the ore body for which access has been the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each improved can be identified: and balance sheet date and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax The costs relating to the stripping activity can be measured reliably.
assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes Production stripping costs are allocated between the inventory levied by the same taxation authority and the Group has both the produced and the production stripping asset using a life-of-component right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities waste to ore or mineral contained strip ratio.
When the current strip on a net or simultaneous basis.
ratio is greater than the life-of-component ratio a portion of the Royalties and resource rent taxes are treated as taxation stripping costs is capitalised to the production stripping asset.
arrangements when they have the characteristics of a tax.
This is The development and production stripping assets are depreciated considered to be the case when they are imposed under government on a units of production basis based on the proven and probable authority and the amount payable is calculated by reference to reserves of the relevant components.
Stripping assets are classified revenue derived net of any allowable deductions after adjustment as other mineral assets in property, plant and equipment.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above n Development expenditure for other forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty When proved reserves are determined and development is arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure as current provisions and included in expenses.
is reclassified as assets under construction, and is disclosed as a component of property, plant and equipment.
All subsequent j Inventories development expenditure is capitalised and classified as assets Inventories, including work in progress, are valued at the lower of under construction, provided commercial viability conditions cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined primarily on the continue to be satisfied.
Development expenditure is net of basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on proceeds from the sale of ore extracted during the development an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing raw phase.
On completion of development, all assets included in materials and cost of production, including attributable mining and assets under construction are reclassified as either plant and manufacturing overheads.
In respect of minerals inventory, quantities equipment or other mineral assets.
are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
In respect of petroleum inventory, quantities are derived through flow rate or tank o Goodwill volume measurement: volume calculation and composition is derived Where the fair value of consideration paid for a business combination via sample analysis.
exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
k Property, plant and equipment Where the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated assets acquired exceeds the cost of acquisition, the difference is depreciation and impairment charges.
Cost is the fair value of immediately recognised in the income statement.
The recognition consideration given to acquire the asset at the time of its acquisition and measurement of goodwill attributable to a non-controlling or construction and includes the direct cost of bringing the asset interest in a business combination is determined on a transaction to the location and condition necessary for operation and the by transaction basis.
Goodwill is not amortised, however, its carrying estimated future cost of closure and rehabilitation of the facility.
amount is assessed annually against its recoverable amount as l Other mineral assets explained below under Impairment and reversal of impairment of non-current assets.
On the subsequent disposal or termination Other mineral assets comprise: of a previously acquired business, any remaining balance of capitalised exploration, evaluation and development expenditure associated goodwill is included in the determination of the profit including development stripping for properties now in production: or loss on disposal or termination.
mineral rights and petroleum interests acquired: p Intangible assets capitalised production stripping as described below in Overburden removal costs.
Amounts paid for the acquisition of identifiable intangible assets, such as software and licences, are capitalised at the fair value m Overburden removal costs of consideration paid and are recorded at cost less accumulated The process of removing overburden and other mine waste materials amortisation and impairment charges.
Identifiable intangible assets to access mineral deposits is referred to as stripping.
In open-pit with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their mining, stripping costs are accounted for separately for each expected useful life, which is typically no greater than eight years.
A component is a specific section The Group has no identifiable intangible assets for which the within an ore body that is made more accessible by the stripping expected useful life is indefinite.
270 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information 43 Significant accounting policies continued q Closure and rehabilitation r Finance costs The mining, extraction and processing activities of the Group Finance costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate normally give rise to obligations for site closure or rehabilitation.
to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets Closure and rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended and dismantling: removal or treatment of waste materials and future use, in which case finance costs are capitalised up to the date site and land rehabilitation.
The extent of work required and the when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance associated costs are dependent on the requirements of relevant costs capitalised before the effects of income tax for the period authorities and the Groups environmental policies.
is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period, to the average amount Provisions for the cost of each closure and rehabilitation program of capitalised expenditure for the qualifying assets during the period.
are recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of an s Financial instruments operation, the provision is increased accordingly.
Costs included All financial assets are initially recognised at the fair value of in the provision encompass all closure and rehabilitation activity consideration paid.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at expected to occur progressively over the life of the operation and fair value or amortised cost less impairment.
Where non-derivative at or after the time of closure, for disturbance existing at the financial assets are carried at fair value, gains and losses on reporting date.
Routine operating costs that may impact the ultimate remeasurement are recognised directly in equity unless the financial closure and rehabilitation activities, such as waste material handling assets have been designated as being held at fair value through conducted as an integral part of a mining or production process, profit or loss, in which case the gains and losses are recognised are not included in the provision.
Costs arising from unforeseen directly in the income statement.
Financial assets are designated as circumstances, such as the contamination caused by unplanned being held at fair value through profit or loss where this is necessary discharges, are recognised as an expense and liability when the to reduce measurement inconsistencies for related assets and event gives rise to an obligation which is probable and capable liabilities.
All financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially of reliable estimation.
recognised at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as appropriate initial cost and, with the exception of financial The timing of the actual closure and rehabilitation expenditure is liabilities which have been designated in fair value hedging dependent upon a number of factors such as the life and nature relationships, are subsequently carried at amortised cost.
of the asset, the operating licence conditions, the principles of Our BHP Billiton Charter and the environment in which the mine Derivatives, including those embedded in other contractual operates.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and arrangements but separated for accounting purposes because they can continue for an extended period of time dependent on closure are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, are initially and rehabilitation requirements.
The majority of the expenditure recognised at fair value on the date the contract is entered into is expected to be paid over periods of up to 50 years, with some and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method payments into perpetuity.
of recognising the resulting gain or loss on remeasurement depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, Closure and rehabilitation provisions are measured at the expected and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The measurement value of future cash flows, discounted to their present value and of fair value is based on quoted market prices.
Where no price determined according to the probability of alternative estimates information is available from a quoted market source, alternative of cash flows occurring for each operation.
Discount rates used are market mechanisms or recent comparable transactions, fair value specific to the country in which the operation is located.
Significant is estimated based on the Groups views on relevant future prices, judgements and estimates are involved in forming expectations net of valuation allowances to accommodate liquidity, modelling of future activities and the amount and timing of the associated cash credit and other risks implicit in such estimates.
Those expectations are formed based on existing environmental and regulatory requirements or, if more stringent, Group environmental Forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps held for hedging policies which give rise to a constructive obligation.
purposes are accounted for as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
Derivatives embedded within other contractual arrangements and When provisions for closure and rehabilitation are initially recognised, the majority of commodity-based transactions executed through the corresponding cost is capitalised as an asset, representing part derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting.
of the cost of acquiring the future economic benefits of the operation.
The capitalised cost of closure and rehabilitation activities is Fair value hedges recognised in property, plant and equipment and depreciated Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and accordingly.
The value of the provision is progressively increased qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, over time as the effect of discounting unwinds, creating an expense together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset recognised in financial expenses.
or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Any difference between the change in fair value of the derivative and the hedged Closure and rehabilitation provisions are also adjusted for changes risk constitutes ineffectiveness of the hedge and is recognised in estimates.
Those adjustments are accounted for as a change in immediately in the income statement.
the corresponding capitalised cost, except where a reduction in the provision is greater than the undepreciated capitalised cost of the Cash flow hedges related assets, in which case the capitalised cost is reduced to nil The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives and the remaining adjustment is recognised in the income statement.
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised in equity in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the immediately in the income statement.
Changes to the capitalised ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
cost result in an adjustment to future depreciation.
Adjustments to Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income the estimated amount and timing of future closure and rehabilitation statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit cash flows are a normal occurrence in light of the significant or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged judgements and estimates involved.
Factors influencing those results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, changes include: plant and equipment purchases or a non-financial liability, revisions to estimated reserves, resources and lives of operations: the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred developments in technology: from equity and included in the measurement of the initial regulatory requirements and environmental management carrying amount of the asset or liability.
strategies: When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, changes in the estimated extent and costs of anticipated activities, or when a hedge ceases to meet the criteria for hedge accounting, including the effects of inflation and movements in foreign any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains exchange rates: and in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately movements in interest rates affecting the discount rate applied.
recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative hedge gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 271 7 Financial Statementscontinued 43 Significant accounting policies continued Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting v Superannuation, pensions and other post-retirement benefits Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The Group operates or participates in a number of pension including Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not superannuation schemes throughout the world.
The funding of the qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the schemes complies with local regulations.
The assets of the schemes income statement.
are generally held separately from those of the Group and are administered by trustees or management boards.
Available for sale and trading investments For defined contribution schemes or schemes operated on an Available for sale and trading investments are measured at fair value.
industry-wide basis where it is not possible to identify assets Gains and losses on the remeasurement of trading investments are attributable to the participation by the Groups employees, the recognised directly in the income statement.
Gains and losses on pension charge is calculated on the basis of contributions payable.
the remeasurement of available for sale investments are recognised directly in equity and subsequently recognised in the income For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing pensions is statement when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction charged to the income statement so as to recognise current and in fair value is judged to represent an impairment.
past service costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of returns t Share-based payments on plan assets.
Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised The fair value at grant date of equity-settled share awards is charged directly in equity.
An asset or liability is consequently recognised to the income statement over the period for which the benefits of in the balance sheet based on the present value of defined benefit employee services are expected to be derived.
The corresponding obligations less the fair value of plan assets, except that any such accrued employee entitlement is recorded in the employee share asset cannot exceed the present value of expected refunds from awards reserve.
The fair value of awards is calculated using an option and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined benefit pricing model which considers the following factors: obligations are estimated by discounting expected future payments exercise price: using market yields at the reporting date on high-quality corporate expected life of the award: bonds in countries that have developed corporate bond markets.
current market price of the underlying shares: However, where developed corporate bond markets do not exist, expected volatility: the discount rates are selected by reference to national government bonds.
In both instances, the bonds are selected with terms expected dividends: to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, risk-free interest rate: the estimated future cash flows.
market-based performance hurdles: and Certain Group companies provide post-retirement medical benefits non-vesting conditions.
In some cases the benefits are provided Where awards are forfeited because non-market-based vesting through medical care schemes to which the Group, the employees, conditions are not satisfied, the expense previously recognised is the retirees and covered family members contribute.
Where shares in BHP Billiton Limited or schemes there is no funding of the benefits before retirement.
BHP Billiton Plc are acquired by on-market purchases prior to settling These schemes are recognised on the same basis as described vested entitlements, the cost of the acquired shares is carried as above for defined benefit pension schemes.
treasury shares and deducted from equity.
Where awards are satisfied w Business combinations by delivery of acquired shares, any difference between their acquisition cost and the remuneration expense recognised is charged directly Business combinations that occurred between 1 July 2004 and to retained earnings.
The tax effect of awards granted is recognised 30 June 2009 were accounted for by applying the purchase in income tax expense, except to the extent that the total tax method of accounting, whereby the purchase consideration of deductions are expected to exceed the cumulative remuneration the combination is allocated to the identifiable net assets acquired.
In this situation, the excess of the associated current Business combinations prior to 1 July 2004 have been accounted or deferred tax is recognised in other comprehensive income for in accordance with the Groups previous policies under and forms part of the employee share awards reserve.
Australian GAAP and UK GAAP and have not been restated.
u Provision for employee benefits Business combinations undertaken from 1 July 2010 are accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the Provision is made in the financial statements for all employee identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable benefits, including on costs.
In relation to industry-based long service net assets are measured on the basis of fair value at the date leave funds, the Groups liability, including obligations for funding of acquisition.
shortfalls, is determined after deducting the fair value of dedicated assets of such funds.
x Joint arrangements Liabilities for unpaid wages and salaries are recognised in sundry The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint creditors.
Current entitlements to annual leave and accumulating arrangements.
Joint arrangements exist when two or more parties sick leave accrued for services up to the reporting date are have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing recognised in provision for employee benefits and are measured at of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the amounts expected to be paid.
Entitlements to non-accumulating the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken.
The Groups joint arrangements are of two types: The current liability for long service leave for which settlement within Joint operations 12 months of the reporting date cannot be deferred is recognised Joint operations are joint arrangements in which the parties with in the current provision for employee benefits and is measured in joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities accordance with annual leave described above.
The non-current relating to the arrangement.
The activities of a joint operation are liability for long service leave is recognised in the non-current primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties to the provision for employee benefits and measured as the present value arrangement, indicating that: of expected future payments to be made in respect of services the parties have the rights to substantially all the economic benefits provided by employees up to the reporting date.
Consideration of the assets of the arrangement: and is given to expected future wage and salary levels, experience all liabilities are satisfied by the joint participants through their of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future purchases of that output.
This indicates that, in substance, the joint payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date participants have an obligation for the liabilities of the arrangement.
on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currency that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
The financial statements of the Group include its share of the assets in joint operations, together with its share of the liabilities, revenues and expenses arising jointly or otherwise from those operations and its revenue derived from the sale of its share of output from the joint operation.
All such amounts are measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which are usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the joint operation.
