1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 4.4.
24 LTI awards under the MAP and LTIP The table below shows awards that were held by the executives at the time that they were appointed to the GMC.
Prior to their appointment as members of the GMC, the individuals listed in the tables below received LTI awards: under the MAP which has applied for non-GMC management since FY2009: under the LTIP which applied to non-GMC management as well as to the GMC members before the MAP was introduced.
21 for details of LTIP awards allocated for GMC service As the primary purpose of the MAP is the retention of key senior management employees, the plan has no performance conditions after awards are granted and the vesting of MAP awards is subject to continued employment with the Group through to the vesting date as shown in the table.
Where a participant resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the vesting date, their unvested MAP awards are forfeited.
If a participants employment ends due to death, illness or injury, a pro rata number of unvested Restricted Shares will vest based on the portion of the relevant vesting period served.
No DEP is payable on the MAP awards that were allocated in FY2012 or since that time.
The estimated vesting month is shown in the table.
Where applicable, expiry date of awards is the day prior to the third MAP awards or fifth LTIP awards anniversary of that vesting date.
2 The market price shown for grants made during FY2015 is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on 3 November 2014.
No price is payable by the individual for acquiring the award at the time of grant.
The grant date IFRS fair value of the awards is estimated as at the start of the vesting period, being 1 July 2014, and was A$32.46.
No exercise requirement or expiry date applies to these awards as described above the table.
3 The awards granted under the MAP in October 2010 became fully vested on 21 August 2013 as the service conditions were met.
The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain of the total award is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the MAP award vested.
4 Awards shown as held by Mike Fraser and Jane McAloon at 30 June 2015 are their balances at the date they ceased being KMP.
The subsequent treatment of their awards is set out in section 4.4.
5 The opening balance of awards for Athalie Williams reflects her holdings on the date she commenced being KMP.
6 The market price shown and used for calculating the aggregate gain is the closing price of BHP Billiton shares on the date that the individual exercised their LTIP award.
No price is payable by the individual for exercising the award.
7 The amounts shown in this column are the value of the DEP paid on awards.
