2 Business overview continued Proved reserve estimates were attributed to future development 2.3 Reserves and resources projects only where there is a significant commitment to project funding and execution, and for which applicable government and 2.3.
1 Petroleum reserves regulatory approvals have been secured or are reasonably certain BHP Billiton Petroleum proved reserves are estimated and reported to be secured.
Furthermore, estimates of proved reserves include according to US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC only volumes for which access to market is assured with reasonable standards and have been determined in accordance with SEC certainty.
All proved reserve estimates are subject to revision, Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X.
Proved oil and gas reserves are those either upward or downward, based on new information, such quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids NGL as from development drilling and production activities, or from that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible terms or development plans.
from a given date forward from known reservoirs, and under Reserve estimates contained in this section have been estimated with existing economic conditions, operating methods, operating deterministic methodology, with the exception of the North West contracts and government regulations.
Unless evidence indicates Shelf gas operation in Australia, where probabilistic methodology has that renewal of existing operating contracts is reasonably certain, been utilised to estimate and aggregate reserves for the reservoirs estimates of economically producible reserves reflect only the dedicated to the gas project only.
The probabilistic based portion period before the contracts expire.
The project to extract the of these reserves totals 38 MMboe total boe conversion is based on hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be the following: 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe and represents reasonably certain that it will commence within a reasonable time.
approximately two per cent of our total reported proved reserves.
Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves that can be expected Aggregation of proved reserves beyond the field project level has to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and been performed by arithmetic summation.
Due to portfolio effects, operating methods, and through installed extraction equipment aggregates of proved reserves may be conservative.
The custody and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate transfer point s or point s of sale applicable for each field or if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
As specified in project are the reference point for reserves.
The reserves replacement SEC Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X, oil and gas prices are taken ratio is the reserves change during the year before production, as the unweighted average of the corresponding first day of divided by the production during the year stated as a percentage.
the month prices for the 12 months prior to the ending date of the period covered.
The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG is a dedicated group that provides oversight of the reserves assessment and reporting Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require processes.
It is independent of the various operation teams directly the application of judgement and are subject to future revision.
responsible for development and production activities.
The PRG Accordingly, financial and accounting measures such as the is staffed by individuals averaging more than 20 years experience standardised measure of discounted cash flows, depreciation, in the oil and gas industry.
The manager of the PRG, Abhijit Gadgil, depletion and amortisation charges, the assessment of impairments is a full-time employee of BHP Billiton and is the individual responsible and the assessment of valuation allowances against deferred for overseeing and supervising the preparation of the reserve tax assets that are based on reserve estimates are also subject estimates and compiling the information for inclusion in this Annual to change.
He has an advanced degree in engineering and more than Proved reserves were estimated by reference to available well and 30 years of diversified industry experience in reservoir engineering, reservoir information, including but not limited to well logs, well reserves assessment, field development and technical management test data, core data, production and pressure data, geologic data, and is a 30-year member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers seismic data and, in some cases, to similar data from analogous, SPE.
He has also served on the Society of Petroleum Engineers producing reservoirs.
A wide range of engineering and geoscience Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.
Mr Gadgil has the qualifications methods, including performance analysis, well analogues and and experience required to act as a qualified petroleum reserves geologic studies were used to estimate high confidence proved evaluator under the Australian Securities Exchange ASX Listing developed and undeveloped reserves in accordance with SEC Rules.
The estimates of petroleum reserves are based on, and fairly regulations.
For our conventional operations, performance of represent, information and supporting documentation prepared producing wells was based on rate and pressure decline methods, under the supervision of Mr Gadgil and he has reviewed and agrees including material balance, and was supplemented by reservoir with the information included in section 2.3.
1 of this Annual Report simulation models where appropriate.
In our Onshore US shale and has given his prior written consent for its publication.
No part operations, performance of producing wells was based on decline of the individual compensation for members of the PRG is dependent curve analysis methods.
For wells that lacked sufficient production on reported reserves.
history, reserves were estimated using performance-based type Petroleums reserves are estimated as of 30June 2015.
Reserve curves and offset location analogues with similar geologic and assessments for all Petroleum operations were conducted by reservoir characteristics.
When assessing proved undeveloped technical staff within the operating organisation.
These individuals locations, a combination of geologic and engineering data and, meet the professional qualifications outlined by the SPE, are trained where appropriate, statistical analysis was used to support the in the fundamentals of SEC reserves reporting and the reserves assignment of proved undeveloped reserves.
Performance data, processes and are endorsed by the PRG.
Each reserve assessment along with log and core data, was used to delineate consistent, is reviewed annually by the PRG to ensure technical quality, continuous reservoir characteristics in core areas of the adherence to internally published Petroleum guidelines and development.
Proved undeveloped locations were included compliance with SEC reporting requirements.
Once endorsed in core areas between known data and adjacent to productive by the PRG, all reserves receive final endorsement by senior wells.
Locations where a high degree of certainty could not management and the Risk and Audit Committee prior to public be demonstrated using the above technologies and techniques reporting.
Our internal Group Risk Assessment and Assurance were not categorised as proved.
provides secondary assurance of the oil and gas reserve reporting processes through annual audits.
