1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report 2.1.
4 Coal Business Abbot Point Bowen Our Coal Business, headquartered in Brisbane, Australia, is the worlds largest supplier of seaborne metallurgical coal, a key input in steel production.
Our Coal Business is also a large supplier of Collinsville seaborne energy coal also known as thermal or steaming coal and a domestic energy coal supplier in the countries where our mines are located.
Mackay Dalrymple Bay Broadmeadow BMA Hay Point Our export metallurgical coal customers are steel producers South Walker Coal Terminal Goonyella Creek around the world, principally in China, India, Japan and Europe.
Riverside Daunia In FY2015, the majority of our metallurgical coal sales contracts Moranbah Caval Ridge Poitrel were based on annual volumes, with prices largely index-linked Peak Downs Saraji with negotiated differentials for quality or on a spot basis.
Dysart Norwich Park We are a domestic supplier of energy coal to the electricity generation industry in Australia and the United States.
Our domestic RG Tanna Gregory Crinum Rockhampton energy sales are generally made to nearby power stations under Emerald Blackwater long-term fixed price or cost plus arrangements.
Export sales Barney Point Blackwater are delivered to power generators and industrial users principally Gladstone in China, India and Japan, under contracts that are generally index-linked or short-term fixed.
Total metallurgical coal production in FY2015 was 42.6 Mt BMA Mine BMA Port Rail and total energy coal production in FY2015 was 41.0 Mt.
BMC Mine Port Our assets, located in Australia, Colombia and the United States, consist of both open-cut and underground mines.
At our open-cut mines, overburden is removed after blasting, using either draglines BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance or truck and shovel.
Coal is then extracted using excavators BMA comprises two unincorporated joint ventures Central or loaders and loaded onto trucks to be taken to stockpiles or Queensland Coal Associates Joint Venture CQCA and directly to our beneficiation facility.
At our underground mines, Gregory Joint Venture.
We share 5050 ownership with coal is extracted by either longwall or continuous miner.
is then transported to stockpiles on the surface by conveyor.
BMA owns and operates open-cut and underground metallurgical Coal from stockpiles is then crushed, and for a number of the coal mines in the Bowen Basin and also owns and operates the operations, washed and processed through the coal preparation Hay Point Coal Terminal.
The terminal consists of coal inloading plant.
Domestic coal is transported to nearby customers via dump stations, stacker reclaimers and two ship loaders, capable conveyor, truck or rail.
Export coal is transported to the port of loading 44 Mtpa of coal.
The terminal has been undergoing via trains, and as part of this coal supply chain both single expansion to increase its capacity to 55 Mtpa through the addition and multi-user rail and port infrastructure is used.
of a third berth and ship loader.
The terminal expansion is near Our assets consist of the following: completion and first coal was loaded through the expanded Queensland Coal terminal in January 2015.
The terminal infrastructure enables us to blend products from multiple mines of BMA to optimise Queensland Coal comprises the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA and BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC Assets in the Bowen the value of our production and to satisfy customer requirements.
Basin in Central Queensland, Australia.
BMA operates the Goonyella Riverside, Broadmeadow, Daunia, Caval Ridge, Peak Downs, Saraji, Gregory Crinum and Blackwater The Bowen Basin is well positioned to supply the seaborne market because of its high-quality metallurgical coals, which are ideally mines.
In May 2012, production ceased at Norwich Park mine, following a review of the mines viability.
In October 2012, production suited to efficient blast furnace operations, and its geographical proximity to Asian customers.
We have access to key infrastructure also ceased at the Gregory open-cut mine, part of the Gregory in the Bowen Basin, including a modern, multi-user rail network Crinum complex.
During the year, BMA announced the ramping and our own coal loading terminal at Hay Point, located near down of the Crinum underground mine as it approaches the end the city of Mackay.
We also have contracted capacity at three of its economic reserve life, with longwall production expected other multi-user port facilities, including the Port of Gladstone to cease in the March 2016 quarter.
RG Tanna Coal Terminal, Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal and Our share of total production in FY2015 was 33.9 Mt.
Production Abbot Point Coal Terminal.
figures for BMA include some energy coal less than three per cent.
The reserve lives are discussed in section 2.3.
BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC is a subsidiary company owned by BHP Billiton 80 per cent and Mitsui and Co 20 per cent.
BMC owns and operates South Walker Creek and Poitrel, both open-cut metallurgical coal mines in the Bowen Basin.
Total production in FY2015 was 8.7 Mt.
BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 87 2 Business overview continued New South Wales Energy Coal 2.1.
4 Coal Business continued Our wholly owned New South Wales Energy Coal Asset owns New Mexico Coal and operates the Mt Arthur Coal open-cut energy coal mine We own and operate the San Juan energy coal mine located in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales, Australia.
in the US state of New Mexico.
The mine transports its production New South Wales Energy Coal produced 19.7 Mt in FY2015.
directly to the nearby San Juan Generating Station SJGS.
The reserve life is discussed in section 2.3.
In FY2015, we delivered Production for FY2015 was 5.1 Mt.
The reserve life is discussed approximately six per cent of Mt Arthurs production to a local power in section 2.3.
2, which is the life of the current customer contract.
station and exported the rest, predominantly to Japan and China, To ensure the ongoing supply of coal to the SJGS beyond 2017, via the port of Newcastle.
in May 2015, the SJGS owners reached an in principle agreement We own a 35.5 per cent interest in the Newcastle Coal Infrastructure for a new Coal Supply Agreement with Westmoreland Coal Group, which operates the Newcastle Third Port export coal loading Company.
In conjunction with this, in July 2015, New Mexico facility.
The facility currently has a port expansion project in execution Coal executed a sales agreement with Westmoreland for the refer to Development projects.
We also have a 1.75 per cent purchase of the San Juan Mine.
Subject to regulatory approval, interest in Port Waratah Coal Services Limited, which operates the transaction is expected to be completed at the end two coal loading facilities at the port of Newcastle.
of CY2015 with Westmoreland assuming full operation of the mine from 1 January 2016.
Cerrejn We have a one-third interest in Cerrejn, which owns, operates We also operate the nearby Navajo mine, located on Navajo Nation and markets one of the worlds largest open-cut export energy land in New Mexico.
Full ownership of the Navajo Coal Company coal mines, located in the La Guajira province of Colombia.
transferred to the Navajo Transitional Energy Company NTEC, Cerrejn also owns and operates integrated rail and port facilities an entity of the Navajo Nation, effective 30 December 2013. through which the majority of production is exported to European, New Mexico Coal and NTEC entered into a Mine Management Asian, North and South American customers.
In FY2015, our share Agreement where New Mexico Coal will continue as mine operator of Cerrejn production was approximately 11.3 Mt.
The reserve until 31 December 2016, at which time control will pass to a new life is discussed in section 2.3.
In FY2012, Cerrejn commenced an expansion project P40, Navajo mine transports its production directly to the nearby Four which is expected to increase our share of production to 13.3 Mtpa Corners Power Plant.
Navajo mine reduced capacity during FY2015 BHP Billiton share.
The P40 project scope includes a second berth from 5.4 Mtpa to 4.8 Mtpa in response to reduced customer and dual quadrant ship loader at Cerrejns 100 per cent owned demand.
As we retain control and operated Puerto Bolivar, along with necessary mine, rail and of the mine until full consideration is paid, production continues associated supply chain infrastructure.
The project was completed to be reported by the Group.
However, operational issues are expected to constrain capacity to 11.7 Mtpa BHP Billiton share in the medium term refer to Development projects.
Illawarra Coal and Energy Coal South Africa In May 2015, our Illawarra Coal mines and our 90 per cent interest in Energy Coal South Africa mines were included in the demerger of South32.
Information relating to the South32 demerger can be found in sections 1.3.
7 of this Annual Report and note 29 Discontinued operations of the Financial Statements.
88 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report Information on Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production refer to section 2.2.
2 and reserves tables refer to section 2.3.
Mine & Means of Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Australia Central Queensland Coal Associates Joint Venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton BMA Mining leases, Goonyella All open-cut except Queensland On-site beneficiation Queensland, 50% including mine Broadmeadow: electricity grid processing facilities Coal Australia undeveloped commenced longwall connection transported Mitsubishi Combined nominal tenements, in 1971, underground is under Goonyella by rail to Development capacity: in excess expire between merged with long-term Riverside, Hay Point, 50% Bituminous coal of 61 Mtpa 2015 and 2043, adjoining contracts and Broadmeadow Gladstone, is mined from the renewable for Riverside mine power source Daunia Dalrymple Bay Permian Moranbah further periods in 1989 is under 5-year Caval Ridge and Abbot and Rangal Coal as Queensland contracts Peak Downs Point ports Operates as measures Government Saraji Goonyella Distances Products range legislation allows Blackwater Riverside between the from premium and Norwich Mining is mines and Production quality, low volatile, Park mines permitted to port are commenced high vitrinite, hard continue under between at: Peak Downs coking coal to the legislation 160 km in 1972 medium volatile during the and 315 km Saraji in 1974 hard coking coal, renewal Norwich Park to weak coking application in 1979 coal, some period Blackwater pulverised coal in 1967 injection PCI coal Broadmeadow and medium ash longwall thermal coal as a operations secondary product in 2005 Daunia in 2013 and Caval Ridge in 2014 Production at Norwich Park ceased in May 2012 Gregory Joint Venture Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton BMA Mining leases, Production Gregory: open-cut Queensland On-site beneficiation Queensland, 50% including commenced electricity grid processing facility Coal Crinum: longwall Australia undeveloped at: Gregory connection transported Mitsubishi underground Nominal capacity: tenements, in 1979 is under Gregory and by rail to Development in excess of 6 Mtpa Bituminous coal expire between Crinum mine long-term Crinum mines Hay Point 50% is mined from the 2018 and 2035, longwall contracts and and Gladstone Permian German renewable for commenced power source ports Creek Coal further periods in 1997 is under 5-year Distances measures as Queensland contracts Production between the Product is a high Government at Gregory mines and port volatile, low ash legislation allows open-cut mine are between hard coking coal Mining is ceased in 310 km permitted to October 2012 and 370 km continue under the legislation during the renewal application period BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Public road BHP Billiton BMC Mining leases, South Walker Open-cut Queensland South Walker Creek Bowen Basin, Queensland, 80% including Creek electricity grid coal beneficiated Coal Bituminous coal undeveloped commenced on-site Australia transported Mitsui and is mined from the tenements in 1996 South Walker by rail to Co 20% Permian Rangal Nominal capacity: expire between Poitrel Creek and Hay Point Coal measures in excess of 5 Mtpa 2015 and 2034, commenced Poitrel mines and Dalrymple Produces a range Poitrel mine has and are in 2006 Bay ports of coking coal Red Mountain joint renewable for Distances and pulverised coal venture with further periods between the injection PCI coal.
adjacent Millennium as Queensland mines and port Coal mine to share Government are between processing and rail legislation 135 km loading facilities allows and 165 km Nominal capacity: Mining is in excess of 3 Mtpa permitted to continue under the legislation during the renewal application period BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 89 2 Business overview continued Information on Coal mining operations continued Mine & Means of Title, leases Mine type & Facilities, use location access Ownership Operator or options History mineralisation style Power source & condition Australia Mt Arthur Coal Approximately Public road 100% BHP Billiton Various mining Production Open-cut Local energy Beneficiation 126 km leases and commenced providers facilities: Domestic coal Produces a medium northwest licences expire in 2002 coal handling, transported rank bituminous of Newcastle, between 2015 preparation, by conveyor Government thermal coal New South and 2032 washing plants to Bayswater approval non-coking Wales, Renewal is Power Station permits Nominal capacity: Australia being sought extraction of in excess of 23 Mtpa Export coal for expired up to 36 Mtpa transported by mining leases of run of mine third party rail The original coal from to Newcastle approvals underground port permit mining and open-cut and other operations, activities with open-cut to continue extraction during renewal limited to application 32 Mtpa United States San Juan 25 km west of Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Surface mine Underground San Juan Coal sized and Farmington, from federal operations Generating blended to meet Coal Produces a medium New Mexico, and state commenced Station contract quantities transported rank bituminous US governments in 1973 and specification by truck and thermal coal conveyor Leases viable Development non-coking suitable Nominal capacity: to San Juan as long as of underground for the domestic 6 Mtpa Generating minimum mine to replace market only Station production open-cut mine criteria achieved approved in 2000 Navajo 40 km Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Lease held Production Open-cut Four Corners Stackers and southwest of 0% by Navajo commenced Power Plant reclaimers used Coal Produces a medium Farmington, Transitional in 1963 to size and blend transported Navajo rank bituminous New Mexico, Energy Divested coal to meet by rail to Four Transitional thermal coal US Company in FY2014 contract quantities Corners Power Energy non-coking suitable and specification Plant Company BHP Billiton for the domestic 100% continues market only Nominal capacity: as operator 4.8 Mtpa Colombia Cerrejn La Guajira Public road BHP Billiton Cerrejn Mining leases Original mine Open-cut Local Beneficiation province, 33.33% expire in 2034 began Colombian facilities: crushing Coal exported Produces a medium Colombia producing power system plant with capacity by companyAnglo American rank bituminous in 1976 of 35 Mtpa and owned rail to 33.33% thermal coal washing plant Puerto Bolivar BHP Billiton non-coking suitable Glencore 150 km interest for the export Nominal capacity: 33.33% acquired market 3 Mtpa in 2000 Newcastle Port Third Phase Expansion Development projects In August 2011, we announced a US$367 million BHP Billiton share Hay Point Coal Terminal Expansion Stage 3 investment in the third stage development of the Newcastle In March 2011, we approved the third expansion of the Hay Point Coal Coal Infrastructure Groups coal handling facility in Newcastle.
The expansion of the terminal will deliver an additional The port expansion project is expected to increase total capacity 11 Mt of annual port capacity 100 per cent basis.
The project at the coal terminal from 53 Mtpa to 66 Mtpa.
This is expected investment has a budget of US$1.5 billion BHP Billiton share.
to increase New South Wales Energy Coals allocation by 4.6 Mtpa In January 2015, first coal was loaded through the expanded to 19.2 Mtpa.
First coal on ship, being the first ship loaded through terminal and the project was 97.6 per cent complete at 30 June 2015. the new facility, was achieved in June 2013, ahead of schedule.
Cerrejn P40 Project At 30 June 2015, the project was 99.5 per cent complete.
In August 2011, we announced a US$437 million BHP Billiton share IndoMet Coal Project investment in the expansion of Cerrejn, known as the P40 Project, IndoMet Coal comprises seven coal contracts of work covering which is expected to increase Cerrejns thermal coal production a large metallurgical coal resource in Central and East Kalimantan, by 8 Mtpa to approximately 40 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
The project Indonesia, which was discovered by BHP Billiton in the 1990s.
scope includes a second berth and dual quadrant ship loader at Following an assessment of the importance of local participation Cerrejns 100 per cent owned and operated Puerto Bolivar, along in developing the project, in 2010 we sold a 25 per cent interest with necessary mine, rail and associated supply chain infrastructure.
in the project to a subsidiary of PT Adaro Energy TBK.
We retain Construction commenced in CY2011 and the project handled 75 per cent of the project and hold management responsibility.
its first coal in the December 2013 quarter.
However, operational issues are expected to constrain capacity to approximately During FY2015, IndoMet completed infrastructure development 35 Mtpa 100 per cent basis in the medium term.
The final cost and received an operating permit to commence mining at Haju was US$376 million BHP Billiton share and the project was mine.
Production is expected to commence from the 1 Mtpa Haju completed during the December 2014 quarter.
