1 Strategic Report 2 Business overview 3 Corporate Governance Statement 4 Remuneration Report 5 Directors Report S K I L L S Female Remuneration Australia South Africa HSE E C N Europe E I R E US P X E Capital projects 9 years 6 9 years standards of the Group: monitor the performance of management Further information relating to diversity is set out in section 3.14.3. and of the Group: satisfy themselves as to the adequacy and Alongside Board composition, part of the Boards role is to consider integrity of the Financial Statements: and satisfy themselves that and approve the Groups measurable objectives for workforce the systems for the identification and management of risks are diversity each financial year, and to oversee the Groups progress robust and appropriate.
Directors are also expected to commit in achieving those objectives.
This progress will continue to be sufficient time to carry out their role and to participate in continuous disclosed in the Annual Report, along with the proportion of improvement programs and internal reviews to support ongoing women in our workforce, in senior management positions and development.
The letter of appointment also makes it clear that on the Board.
Further information on inclusion and diversity at Directors are required to disclose circumstances that may affect, BHP Billiton, including our progress against FY2015 measurable or be perceived to affect, their ability to exercise independent objectives, and our employee profile more generally, is set out judgement so that the Board can assess independence on in sections 1.13.1 and 1.13.3. a regular basis.
A copy of the terms of appointment for Non-executive Directors 3.9 Director induction, training is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus our compan y governance.
and development Inclusion and diversity The Board considers that the development of industry and Our Charter and Human Resources Group Level Documents guide Group knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
management on all aspects of human resource management, Upon appointment, each new Non-executive Director undertakes including inclusion and diversity.
Underpinning the Group Level an induction program specifically tailored to their needs.
Documents and supporting the achievement of diversity across the Group are principles and measurable objectives that define A copy of an indicative induction program is available our approach to diversity and our focus on creating an inclusive online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com aboutus our compan y go vernance.
BHP Billitons long-stated strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified The Board and the Nomination and Governance Committee by commodity, geography and market.
The Boards development believe that many facets of diversity are required in order to activity reflects this diversification through the provision of meet the corporate purpose.
This diversity is not restricted to regular updates to Directors on each of the Groups commodities, gender but also includes geographic location, nationality, skills, geographies and markets.
The Board is committed to ensuring gender diversity is actively Non-executive Directors also participate in continuous improvement programs, in accordance with their terms of pursued and implemented in terms of Board composition.
Diversity is a core consideration in ensuring that the Board and its committees appointment.
Programs are designed to maximise the effectiveness of the Directors throughout their tenure and link in with their have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
The Training and Development Program covers a range of matters of a business The right blend of perspectives is critical to ensuring the Board oversees BHP Billiton effectively for shareholders.
nature, including environmental, social and governance matters.
Board skills, experience and diversity 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% This diagram includes Anita Frew who will join the Board as of 15 September 2015.
Tenure Experience BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 145 0 3 years 25% Mining 33% 3 6 years 41.67% Oil & Gas 42% 6 9 years 8.33% Marketing 83% 9 years 25% Public Policy 100% Gender Skills Female Execitive leadership 100% 25% Global experience 100% Governance 100% Location Strategy 100% US 25% Financial acumen 100% Europe 25% Capital projects 83% South Africa 8.33% HSE 92% Australia 41.67% Remuneration 100% 3 6 years Financial acumen 0 3 years D G I V E E N R D S Public policy E I Strategy Risk T R Y L O Marketing C Governance A T I O N Oil and gas Global experience T E N U R E Mining Executive leadership 3 Corporate Governance Statement continued Structured opportunities are provided to build knowledge through These sessions and site visits provide not only an update on the main Businesses and assets, but also allow an opportunity initiatives such as visits to BHP Billiton sites and briefings provided at Board meetings.
Non-executive Directors also build their Group to discuss, in detail, the changing risk environment and the potential for impacts on the achievement of our corporate purpose and industry knowledge through the involvement of the GMC and other senior Group employees in Board meetings.
More detail on the management of principal risks is set out in sections 1.7.
Director involvement and Briefings, site visits and development sessions underpin and continuous development through site visits, Business Risk and support the Boards work in monitoring and overseeing progress Audit Committee Business RAC meetings and on-site briefings towards the corporate purpose.
We therefore continuously build are summarised in the following map.
Directors knowledge to ensure the Board remains up-to-date with developments within our Businesses, as well as developments in Business RAC meetings take place twice yearly as part of the markets in which we operate.
Directors who are members of the Boards Risk and Audit Committee chair the Business During the year, Non-executive Directors participated in the RAC meetings.
For further information on Business RACs, following activities: refer to section 3.14.1. briefings intended to provide each Director with a deeper The Nomination and Governance Committee oversees the understanding of the activities, environment and key issues Directors Training and Development Program, and, as part of and direction of the Businesses.
These briefings are provided the yearly review process, the Chairman discusses development to the Board by senior executives, including GMC members areas with each Director.
Board committees in turn review and and other team members with operational and non-operational agree their training needs.
The benefit of this approach is that responsibilities.
They are comprehensive briefings on the induction and learning opportunities can be tailored to Directors commodities, assets and markets in which we operate, including committee memberships, as well as the Boards specific areas HSEC, and public policy considerations.
The briefings provided of focus.
This approach also ensures a coordinated process during FY2015 covered Potash, the Group Technology strategy, in relation to succession planning, Board renewal, training and Iron Ore, and Group scenario planning including sign posts.
development and committee composition, which are all relevant When these briefings were combined with a site visit, they to the Nomination and Governance Committees role in securing took place on-site, otherwise they took place at Board meetings the supply of talent to the Board.
where the relevant executives joined Directors: development sessions on specific topics of relevance, such as In addition, each Board committee provides a standing invitation climate change, commodity markets, world economy, changes for any Non-executive Director to attend committee meetings in corporate governance standards, diversity and inclusion, rather than just limiting attendance to committee members.
Directors duties and shareholder feedback.
In relation to climate Committee agendas are provided to all Directors to ensure that change, the Board and its committees once again spent time Directors are aware of matters to be considered by the committees, considering systemic climate change as it relates to the resilience and can elect to attend meetings where appropriate.
of, and opportunities for, the Groups portfolio, and considering actions to manage the implications of climate change: visits to Houston, Petroleum, United States: Olympic Dam, Copper, Australia: Western Australia Iron Ore: Eagle Ford, Petroleum, United States: Peak Downs, Coal, Australia, and Mount Arthur, Coal, Australia, including briefings on the assets, operations and other relevant issues, and meetings with key personnel: addresses by expert external speakers.
Director site visits, on-site briefings and Business RAC meetings 20132015 2013 2014 Jansen 2013 London 2015 San Juan 2013 2014 Petroleum 2013 2015 2014 Houston 2015 Olympic Dam Peak Downs Western Mount Arthur Australia 220 013 13 2015 Khutala 220 014 14 Iron Ore 2015 2013 2015 Wessels 2013 2015 2014 2013 2014 Worsley 2014 Sydney 2015 220 015 15 2014 Adelaide Richards Bay Melbourne Director site visit, including briefing Business RAC Meeting 146 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015
