8 Glossary continued Cut-off grade 8.1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms A nominated grade above which is defined an Ore Reserve or 2D Mineral Resource.
For example, the lowest grade of mineralised Two dimensional seismic.
material that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserve.
3D Dated Brent Three dimensional seismic.
A benchmark price assessment of the spot market value Alumina of physical cargoes of North Sea light sweet crude oil.
Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite 2 3 Electrowinning electrowon in the refining process.
Alumina is then converted reduced An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
by dissolving a metal within an electrolyte and plating Ash it onto an electrode.
Inorganic material remaining after combustion.
Energy coal Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement AusIMM manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
Bauxite Ethane The chief ore of aluminium.
Where sold separately, is largely Beneficiation ethane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
The process of physically separating ore from gangue One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to waste material prior to subsequent processing of the 27 thousand cubic feet of gas.
beneficiated ore. FAusIMM Brownfield Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
An exploration or development project located within an existing Field mineral province, which can share infrastructure and management An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all with an existing operation.
grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural Butane feature and or stratigraphic condition.
There may be two or more A component of natural gas that occurs in two isomeric forms.
reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening Where sold separately, is largely butane gas that has been liquefied impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both.
One tonne of ethane is approximately Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent equivalent to 14 thousand cubic feet of gas.
fields may be treated as a single or common operational field.
The geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic condition Coal Reserves are intended to identify localised geological features as opposed The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, plays, concerning coal.
per SEC Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10.
Coking coal Flotation Used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground process by virtue of its carbonisation properties.
Coking coal may ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float Competent Person by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted A minerals industry professional who is a Member or Fellow mineral particles sink.
of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, FPSO Floating, production, storage and off-take or of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists, or of a Recognised A floating vessel used by the offshore oil and gas industry for Professional Organisation RPO, as included in a list available the processing of hydrocarbons and for storage of oil.
An FPSO on the JORC and ASX websites.
These organisations have vessel is designed to receive hydrocarbons produced from nearby enforceable disciplinary processes, including the powers platforms or subsea templates, process them and store oil until to suspend or expel a member.
A Competent Person must it can be offloaded onto a tanker.
have a minimum of five years relevant experience in the style of mineralisation or type of deposit under consideration and Grade in the activity that the person is undertaking JORC Code, 2012.
Any physical or chemical measurement of the characteristics of the material of interest in samples or product.
Condensate A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural Greenfield underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid The development or exploration located outside the area at atmospheric conditions.
of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
Copper cathode GSSA Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited Geological Society of South Africa.
on the cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper Heap leach ing sulphate solution.
The refined copper may also be produced A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, through leaching and electrowinning.
uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material is laid Conventional Petroleum Resources on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached by uniformly Hydrocarbon accumulations that can be produced by a well trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through the beds to drilled into a geologic formation in which the reservoir and fluid ponds.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
characteristics permit the hydrocarbons to readily flow to the Hypogene Sulphide wellbore without the use of specialised extraction technologies.
Hypogene mineralisation is formed by fluids at high temperature Crude oil and pressure derived from magmatic activity.
Hypogene sulphide A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural consists predominantly of chalcopyrite and is not amenable underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure to leaching technology.
after being produced at the well head and passing through surface separating facilities.
296 BHP Billiton Annual Report 2015 6 Legal proceedings 7 Financial Statements 8 Glossary 9 Shareholder information ICSID International Centre for Settlement of Investment Metocean Disputes A term that is commonly used in the offshore oil and gas ICSID is an autonomous international institution that provides industry to describe the physical environment and surrounds facilities and services to support conciliation and arbitration i. e. an environment near an offshore oil and gas working platform.
of international investment disputes between investors and States.
Mineral Resources ICSID was established under the Convention on the Settlement A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic of Investment Disputes between States and Nationals of Other interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade quality States the ICSID Convention, with over 140 member States.
and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual Indicated Mineral Resources economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other geological characteristics of a Mineral That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge, including sampling estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Factors in sufficient detail to support mine planning JORC Code, 2012. and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Mineralisation Inferred Mineral Resources Any single mineral or combination of minerals occurring in a mass, That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or deposit, of economic interest.
or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological Modifying Factors evidence and sampling.
Geological evidence is sufficient Considerations used to convert Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
to imply but not verify geological and grade or quality continuity.
These include, but are not restricted to, mining, processing, JORC Code metallurgical, infrastructure, economic, marketing, legal, A set of minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines environmental, social and governmental factors.
for public reporting in Australasia of Exploration Results, Mineral NGL Natural gas liquids Resources and Ore Reserves.
The guidelines are defined by Consists of propane, butane and ethane individually the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC, or as a mixture.
which is sponsored by the Australian mining industry and its professional organisations.
OC OP Open-cut open-pit Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
Kriging A geostatistical method of estimating resources based Ore Reserves on a mathematical function known as a semivariogram.
The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances Leaching for losses, which may occur when the material is mined or extracted The process by which a soluble metal can be economically and is defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level as recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
appropriate that include application of Modifying Factors.
Such LNG Liquefied natural gas studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, extraction could Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through chilling reasonably be justified.
One tonne of LNG is approximately equivalent PEGNL to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists LOI Loss on ignition of Newfoundland and Labrador.
A measure of the percentage of volatile matter liquid or gas Probable Ore Reserves contained within a mineral or rock.
LOI is determined to calculate The economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some loss in mass during pyroprocessing.
The confidence LPG Liquefied petroleum gas in the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve Consists of propane and butane and a small amount is lower than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
Consideration less than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied of the confidence level of the Modifying Factors is important through pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately in conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
A Probable equivalent to 11.6 barrels of oil.
Ore Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved Ore Reserve but is of sufficient quality to serve as the basis for MAIG a decision on the development of the deposit JORC Code, 2012.
Member of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
Propane Marketable Coal Reserves A component of natural gas.
Where sold separately, is largely Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product propane gas that has been liquefied through pressurisation.
where modifications due to mining, dilution and processing have One tonne of ethane is approximately equivalent to been considered, must be publicly reported in conjunction with, 19 thousand cubic feet of gas.
but not instead of, reports of Coal Reserves.
The basis of the Proved oil and gas reserves predicted yield to achieve Marketable Coal Reserves must be Those quantities of oil, gas, and natural gas liquids, stated JORC Code, 2012. which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, MAusIMM can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, Measured Mineral Resources and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether are estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the application deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the of Modifying Factors to support detailed mine planning and final estimation from SEC Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting, evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit.
Metallurgical coal A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised coal injection process.
