In December 2015, 195 nations at the United Nations climate change Environmental maritime regulations conference in Paris COP21 adopted the Paris Agreement, for BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and implementation post-2020.
This will come into force when it has been international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill ratified by at least 55 of the parties to the Framework Convention, prevention and insurance.
These include: representing at least 55% of global GHG emissions.
For the first time this In US waters, OPA 90 imposes liability and spill prevention and binds all participants to its provisions and encourages voluntary planning requirements governing, among others, tankers, barges and contributions by developing countries.
The Paris Agreement aims to hold o offshore facilities.
It also mandates a levy on imported and global average temperature rise to well below 2 C above pre-industrial o domestically produced oil to fund oil spill responses.
Some states, levels and to pursue efforts to limit temperature rise to 1.5 C above preincluding Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional industrial levels.
There is no quantitative long-term emissions goal but liability for oil spills.
Outside US territorial waters, BP shipping tankers countries aim to reach global peaking of GHG emissions as soon as are subject to international liability, spill response and preparedness possible and to undertake rapid reductions thereafter to achieve a regulations under the UNs International Maritime Organization, balance between human caused emissions and natural absorption in the including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, second half of this century.
The Paris Agreement places binding the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships commitments on all parties, from 2020, to make Nationally Determined MARPOL Convention, the International Convention on Oil Pollution, Contributions NDCs and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving Preparedness, Response and Co-operation and the International the objectives of their NDCs.
Developed country NDCs should include Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In April absolute emission reduction targets, and developing countries are 2010, the Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Protocol 2010 was encouraged to move over time towards them.
The Paris Agreement adopted to address issues that have inhibited ratification of the places binding commitments on countries, starting by 2023, to report on International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in their emissions and progress made on their NDCs: undergo international Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by review of collective progress: and submit new, more ambitious NDCs Sea 1996.
As at year end, as the required minimum number of every five years.
The Paris Agreement extends the existing goal for contracting states had not been achieved, the HNS Convention has not climate finance to a minimum of $100 billion after 2025. yet entered into force.
More stringent national and regional measures can be expected in the Changes to the permitted level of sulphur in marine fuels under EU future.
These measures could increase BPs production costs for certain mandated reductions for European waters and International Maritime products, increase demand for competing energy alternatives or products Organization IMO regulations are being phased in until 2020, when with lower-carbon intensity, and affect the sales and specifications of the low sulphur rules for shipping in global waters are scheduled to many of BPs products.
Current and announced measures and take effect.
Depending on the outcome of ongoing IMO deliberations, developments potentially affecting BPs businesses include the the regulations impacting operations in global waters may be delayed following: until 2025.
Regulations requiring the reduction of sulphur oxides The EU has agreed to an overall GHG reduction target of 20% by 2020. emissions will require ships to either burn low sulphur marine fuels or continue using higher sulphur fuel along with approved on-board To meet this, a Climate and Energy Package of regulatory measures was adopted that includes: a collective national reduction target for sulphur abatement technology.
Compliance with the IMO regulations may place additional costs on refineries producing marine fuel, emissions not covered by the EU ETS: binding national renewable energy targets to double usage of renewable energy sources in the EU including costs to dispose of sulphur, as well as increased GHG emissions and energy costs for additional refining.
including at least a 10% share of renewable energy in the transport sector: a legal framework to promote carbon capture and storage To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP shipping maintains CCS : and a revised EU ETS Phase 3.
EU ETS revisions included a marine liability pollution insurance in respect of its operated ships to a GHG reduction of 21% from 2005 levels: a significant increase in maximum limit of $1 billion for each occurrence through mutual allowance auctioning: an expansion in the scope of the EU ETS to insurance associations P&I Clubs, although there can be no assurance encompass more industrial sectors including the petrochemicals that a spill will necessarily be adequately covered by insurance or that sector and gases: no free allocation for electricity generation including liabilities will not exceed insurance recoveries.
that which is self-generated off-shore or production, but benchmarked Greenhouse gas regulation free allocation for energy-intensive and trade-exposed industrial sectors.
EU ETS revisions also included the adoption of a Market In 2011, parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change Stability Reserve to reduce the supply of auctioned allowances.
This Framework Convention at the Conference of the Parties COP17 in will take effect in 2019 and could potentially lead to higher carbon Durban agreed to several measures.
One was a roadmap for negotiating costs.
EU Energy efficiency policy is currently implemented via national a legal framework for action on climate change by 2015 that would energy efficiency action plans and the Energy Efficiency Directive involve all countries by 2020 and would close the ambition gap between adopted in 2012.
The EU has also agreed to the 2030 Climate and existing GHG reduction pledges and what is required to achieve the goal Energy Policy framework with a goal of at least a 40% reduction in of limiting global temperature rise to 2C.
Another was a second GHGs from 1990 and measures to achieve a 27% share of renewable commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol to begin immediately after the energy and a 27% increase in energy efficiency.
The GHG reduction first period.
An amendment was subsequently adopted at the 2012 target is to be achieved by a 43% reduction of emissions from sectors conference of parties in Doha COP18 establishing a second covered by the EU ETS, and a 30% GHG reduction by Member States commitment period to run until the end of 2020.
However, it did not for all other GHG emissions.
include the US, Canada, Japan and Russia and thus covers only about Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, has regulations targeting 15% of global emissions.
large final emitters sites with over 100,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per annum with intensity targets of 2% improvement per The 2014 conference in Lima COP20 adopted the Lima Call for Climate year up to 20%.
Compliance is possible via direct reductions, the Action.
This included the elements of a negotiating text for a new purchase of offsets or the payment of C$20 tonne to a technology fund international agreement, as specified in Durban in 2011, that would be which will escalate to $30 tonne in 2017.
A new policy direction has finalized at COP21 in Paris in December 2015.
This text covers long-term just been announced for post-2018 where performance relative to a ambitions and pathways and a framework for reaching it.
COP20 also best in sector benchmark to be determined will now determine the agreed on the rules for providing and assessing information about each volume of emissions subject to a cost $30 tonne escalating in real countrys Intended Nationally Determined Contributions towards terms or use of other compliance mechanisms such as offsets.
The worlds three largest emitters China, In the US, the EPA continues to pursue regulatory measures to the US and the EU have all announced their intentions to limit their address GHGs under the CAA.
EPA regulations impose light, medium and heavy duty vehicle emissions standards for GHGs and permitting requirements for 236 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
