Plant reliability Subsidiary Plant reliability is calculated taking 100% less the ratio of total unplanned An entity that is controlled by the BP group.
Control of an investee exists plant deferrals divided by installed production capacity.
Unplanned plant when an investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its deferrals are associated with the topside plant and where applicable the involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns subsea equipment excluding wells and reservoir.
Unplanned plant through its power over the investee.
deferrals include breakdowns and weather.
Tier 1 process safety events Pre-tax returns Losses of primary containment from a process of greatest consequence Non-GAAP measure.
Pre-tax returns is the ratio of underlying causing harm to a member of the workforce or costly damage to equipment replacement cost profit before interest and tax to the average operating or exceeding defined quantities.
capital employed for the period.
Tight oil and gas Production-sharing agreement PSA Natural oil and gas reservoirs locked in hard sandstone rocks with low An arrangement through which an oil company bears the risks and costs permeability, making the underground formation extremely tight.
of exploration, development and production.
In return, if exploration is UK National Balancing Point successful, the oil company receives entitlement to variable physical A virtual trading location for sale, purchase and exchange of UK natural volumes of hydrocarbons, representing recovery of the costs incurred and gas.
It is the pricing and delivery point for the Intercontinental Exchange a stipulated share of the production remaining after such cost recovery.
Proved reserves replacement ratio Unconventionals The extent to which production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
Resources found in geographic accumulations over a large area, that usually This ratio is expressed in oil equivalent terms and includes changes present additional challenges to development such as low permeability or resulting from revisions to previous estimates, improved recovery, and high viscosity.
Examples include shale gas and oil, coalbed methane, gas extensions and discoveries.
hydrates and natural bitumen deposits.
These typically require specialized Realizations extraction technology such as hydraulic fracturing or steam injection.
Realizations are the result of dividing revenue generated from Underlying production hydrocarbon sales, excluding revenue generated from purchases made Production after adjusting for divestments and entitlement impacts in our for resale and royalty volumes, by revenue generating hydrocarbon production-sharing agreements.
Revenue generating hydrocarbon production reflects Underlying RC profit or loss the BP share of production as adjusted for any production which does not RC profit or loss after adjusting for non-operating items and fair value generate revenue.
Adjustments may include losses due to shrinkage, accounting effects.
Underlying RC profit or loss and fair value accounting amounts consumed during processing, and contractual or regulatory host effects are not recognized GAAP measures.
See pages 217 and 218 for committed volumes such as royalties.
additional information on the non-operating items and fair value accounting Refining availability effects that are used to arrive at underlying RC profit or loss in order to Represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is defined enable a full understanding of the events and their financial impact.
BP as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after believes that underlying RC profit or loss is a useful measure for investors subtracting the annualized time lost due to turnaround activity and all because it is a measure closely tracked by management to evaluate BPs planned mechanical, process and regulatory downtime.
operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating Refining marker margin RMM decisions and because it may help investors to understand and evaluate, in The average of regional indicator margins weighted for BPs crude the same manner as management, the underlying trends in BPs refining capacity in each region.
Each regional marker margin is based on operational performance on a comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting product yields and a marker crude oil deemed appropriate for the region.
for the effects of these non-operating items and fair value accounting The regional indicator margins may not be representative of the margins effects.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refinery profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest configurations and crude and product slate.
equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss before interest and taxation.
Replacement cost RC profit or loss Reflects the replacement cost of inventories sold in the period and is Trade marks arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses from profit or loss.
RC profit or loss is the measure of profit or loss that is required to be Trade marks of the BP group appear throughout this report.
disclosed for each operating segment under IFRS.
RC profit or loss for They include: the group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
Management believes this ACTIVE Nexcel measure is useful to illustrate to investors the fact that crude oil and Aral Field of the Future product prices can vary significantly from period to period and that the ARCO Wild Bean Cafe impact on our reported result under IFRS can be significant.
Inventory BP holding gains and losses vary from period to period due to changes in Bright Water Apple Pay is a registered trade mark prices as well as changes in underlying inventory levels.
In order for Castrol of Apple Inc. investors to understand the operating performance of the group excluding Independent Simultaneous M&S Simply Food is a registered the impact of price changes on the replacement of inventories, and to Source trade mark of Marks & Spencer plc.
make comparisons of operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management believes it is helpful to disclose this measure.
The Directors report on pages 55-75, 93-94, 169-195 and 215-258 was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary on 4 March 2016.
BP p. l. c. Registered in England and Wales No.
