Additional disclosures The ETAP life extension and additional living-quarters project began in Upstream analysis by region 2015 and is scheduled to run through 2016.
These activities aim to Our upstream operations are set out below by geographical area, with delay cessation of production for the ETAP fields to 2030 by executing associated significant events for 2015.
BPs percentage working interest maintenance scope and installing additional living quarters on the in oil and gas assets is shown in brackets.
Working interest is the costcentral processing facility.
Total investment on these projects is bearing ownership share of an oil or gas lease.
Consequently, the currently estimated at $360 million gross.
percentages disclosed for certain agreements do not necessarily reflect Operations at the Rhum gas field continued under a temporary the percentage interests in reserves and production.
management scheme announced by the UK government in 2013.
Production was suspended between November 2010 and October In addition to exploration, development and production activities, our 2014 following the imposition of EU sanctions on Iran.
The field is upstream business also includes midstream and LNG supply activities.
owned by BP 50% and the Iranian Oil Company IOC under a joint Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of crude oil operating agreement.
See International trade sanctions on page 242. and natural gas pipelines, processing facilities and export terminals, LNG In December, a number of North Sea assets were subject to processing facilities and transportation, and our natural gas liquids NGLs impairment charges totalling $830 million, primarily as a result of the extraction business.
These were however more than offset by Our LNG supply activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, impairment reversals of $945 million in relation to other assets in the Indonesia and Trinidad.
We market around 20% of our LNG production region arising as a result of decreases in cost estimates and a using BP LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import terminal reduction in the discount rate applied.
capacity in the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point, the UK via the In the UK North Sea, BP operates the Forties Pipeline System FPS Isle of Grain, Spain in Bilbao and Italy in Rovigo, with the remainder BP 100%, an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and processing marketed directly to customers.
LNG is supplied to customers in markets system that handles production from around 80 fields in the central including Japan, South Korea, China, the Dominican Republic, Argentina, North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than 675mboe d, with Brazil and Mexico.
average throughput in 2015 of 442mboe d. BP also operated and had a Europe 36% interest in the Central Area Transmission System CATS, a 400- BP is active in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.
Our activities focus kilometre natural gas pipeline system in the central UK sector of the on maximizing recovery from existing producing fields and selected new North Sea providing transport and processing services.
BPs production is generated from three key areas: throughput in 2015 was 40mboe d. In April, BP announced the sale of its the Shetland area, comprising Magnus, Clair, Foinaven and Schiehallion equity in the CATS business to Antin Infrastructure Partners for a fields: the central area, comprising Bruce, Andrew and ETAP fields: and headline price of $486 million, and the sale completed in December.
BP Norway, comprising Valhall, Ula and Skarv fields.
also operates the Sullom Voe oil and gas terminal in Shetland.
BP and its partners, ConocoPhillips, Chevron and Shell, announced North America their decision to proceed with a two-year appraisal programme to Our upstream activities in North America take place in four main areas: evaluate a potential third phase of the Clair field BP 28.6%, west of deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Lower 48 states, Alaska and Canada.
For the Shetland Islands in March 2013.
In March we completed the sixth further information on BPs activities in connection with its and final well of the programme.
The Clair field partners will review the responsibilities following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see page 41. significant amount of data collected to determine the potential for BP has around 500 lease blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, making development.
us one of the largest portfolio owners, and operates four production hubs.
The Quad 204 project, a major redevelopment to extend the life of the Schiehallion and Loyal fields to the west of Shetland, continued in We announced a new ownership and operating model with Chevron and 2015.
After successfully completing sea trials, Glen Lyon, the ConocoPhillips in January 2015.
We sold approximately half of our equity replacement floating production, storage and offload vessel FPSO, interests in the Gila field to Chevron in December 2014 and departed South Korea in December at the start of its journey to the approximately half of our equity interest in the Tiber field to them in Shetlands.
We also ran a major offshore campaign focusing on the preJanuary 2015.
BP, Chevron and ConocoPhillips also have agreed to joint installation of risers and ancillary equipment in preparation for its arrival.
ownership interests in exploration blocks east of Gila known as Gibson As well as the new FPSO, the redevelopment includes extension of BP 34%.
Chevron will operate Tiber BP 31%, Gila BP 34% and the existing subsea infrastructure and drilling new wells.
Operatorship transferred at the end of 2015 after BP finished behalf of its co-venturers, BP announced the start of a seven-year drilling appraisal wells at Gila and Tiber.
These arrangements enable us to drilling campaign on the Loyal field by the new-build, semi-submersible support exploration and development in the Paleogene, share drilling rig, Deepsea Aberdeen.
development costs and maximize synergies allowing us to manage and In June BP and its partners announced that the Clair Ridge platforms improve capital efficiency, as well as increase our focus on maximizing topside modules for accommodation and utilities had been installed.
production at our existing operated hubs.
The next major milestone will be the installation of the production and In the fourth quarter, BP began drilling operations on two wells, the drilling platform topside modules, scheduled for summer 2016, with Chevron operated Gibson prospect and the appraisal well on the production expected to commence in late 2017.
Both wells will complete in 2016.
In July we were awarded five new blocks across two licences in the In March we incurred drilling rig contract cancellation costs of North Sea as part of the second tranche of the 28th licensing round by $375 million for two deepwater drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico which the UK Oil and Gas Authority, bringing the total blocks awarded to BP are no longer required for our operations.
to 12 to date in this licensing round.
In November BP and its partners in the Mad Dog Phase 2 project Maersk Oil announced the UK Oil and Gas Authoritys approval of BP 60.5% approved a modified development plan and were awarded development plans for the Culzean field in the UK North Sea in August.
a Suspension of Production from the US Department of the Interior.
Culzean is operated by Maersk Oil on behalf of its partners, JX Nippon Mad Dog Phase 2 will develop resources in the central area of the field and BP 16%.
through a subsea development consisting of up to 24 wells from four We completed the Magnus life extension project in July enabling drill centres.
Magnus to continue safe and compliant operations.
This was the first In December we wrote off $345 million relating to costs for the Gila project in our North Sea renewals programme, designed to extend the discovery as these resources would be challenging to develop in the productive life of mature assets.
Production for Magnus has been current environment.
extended by five years to 2023.
Additional accommodation has been See also Significant estimate or judgement: oil and natural gas constructed to enable maintenance of this ageing facility and a return accounting on page 109 for further information on leases.
See page 30 for further information on our Thunder Horse South Expansion project.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 221
