Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill continued The sensitivities to different variables have been estimated using certain simplifying assumptions.
For example, lower oil and gas prices sensitivities do not reflect the specific impacts for each contractual arrangement and will not capture fully any favourable impacts that may arise from cost deflation.
Therefore a detailed calculation at any given price or production profile may produce a different result.
It is estimated that if the oil price assumption for all future years the first five years, and the long-term assumption from 2021 onwards was approximately $6.50 per barrel lower in each year, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets of the segment.
It is estimated that if the gas price assumption for all future years was approximately $0.60 per mmbtu lower in each year, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related net non-current assets of the segment.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for each field and take into account development plans agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
The average production for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing over the next 15 years is 911mmboe per year 2014 847mmboe per year.
It is estimated that if production volume were to be reduced by approximately 3% for this period, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets of the segment.
It is estimated that if the post-tax discount rate was approximately 9% for the entire portfolio, an increase of 2% for all countries not classified as higher risk, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets of the segment.
Downstream $ million 2015 2014 Lubricants Other Total Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 3,109 652 3,761 3,264 704 3,968 Cash flows for each cash-generating unit are derived from the business segment plans, which cover a period of two to five years.
To determine the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash flows for a period of 10 years are discounted and aggregated with a terminal value.
Lubricants As permitted by IAS 36, the detailed calculations of Lubricants recoverable amount performed in the most recent detailed calculation in 2013 were used for the 2015 impairment test as the criteria in that standard were considered satisfied: the headroom was substantial in 2013: there have been no significant changes in the assets and liabilities: and the likelihood that the recoverable amount would be less than the carrying amount at the time was remote.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Lubricants unit is most sensitive are operating unit margins, sales volumes, and discount rate.
The values assigned to these key assumptions reflect BPs experience.
No reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Cash flows beyond the two-year plan period were extrapolated using a nominal 3% growth rate.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 135
