Because the physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo, the Glossary BFOE contract additionally specifies a standard volume and tolerance.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the definitions for the following Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and glossary terms are given below.
the UK, where commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in future periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties to purchase Associate and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and settlement An entity over which the group has significant influence and that is neither at a future date.
Typically, the contracts specify delivery terms for the a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement of the group.
Significant influence is underlying commodity.
Some of these transactions are not settled the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of physically as they can be achieved by transacting offsetting sale or the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period that are offset during the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain Brent standard terms such as delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement A trading classification for North Sea crude oil that serves as a major terms and specification of the commodity.
Typically, volume, price and benchmark price for purchases of oil worldwide.
term e. g. daily, monthly and balance of month are the main variable Cash costs contract terms.
Cash costs are a subset of production and Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows between manufacturing expenses plus distribution and administration expenses two parties.
A typical swap transaction usually references a floating price and excludes costs that are classified as non-operating items.
They and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash flows being settled.
represent the substantial majority of the remaining expenses in these line Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell items but exclude certain costs that are variable, primarily with volumes crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on or before such as freight costs.
Management believes that the presentation of a specific future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial cash costs is a performance measure that provides investors with useful instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, netting agreements are used information regarding the companys financial condition because it to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
considers these expenses to be the principal operating and overhead Spot and term contracts expenses that are most directly under their control although they also Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the include certain foreign exchange and commodity price effects.
market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a Consolidation adjustment UPII Unrealized profit in inventory arising on inter-segment transactions.
commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and term contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting Commodity trading contracts mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with BPs Upstream and Downstream segments both participate in regional operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts typically relate to and global commodity trading markets in order to manage, transact and purchases of crude for a refinery, products for marketing, or third-party hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural gas that the group natural gas, or sales of the groups oil production, oil products or gas either produces or consumes in its manufacturing operations.
These production to third parties.
For accounting purposes, spot and term sales physical trading activities, together with associated incremental trading are included in sales and other operating revenues when title passes.
opportunities, are discussed in Upstream on page 28 and in Downstream Similarly, spot and term purchases are included in purchases for on page 34.
The range of contracts the group enters into in its accounting purposes.
commodity trading operations is described below.
Using these contracts, Dividend yield in combination with rights to access storage and transportation capacity, Sum of the four quarterly dividends announced in respect of the year as a allows the group to access advantageous pricing differences between percentage of the year-end share price on the respective exchange.
The locations, time periods and arbitrage between markets.
ordinary shareholders annual dividend yield includes an estimate of the sterling amount expected to be paid in respect of the dividend for the Exchange-traded commodity derivatives fourth quarter 2015 which was announced on 2 February 2016 in US Contracts that are typically in the form of futures and options traded on a dollars.
recognized exchange, such as Nymex and ICE.
Such contracts are traded in standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, such as Brent and Fair value accounting effects West Texas Intermediate: the main product grades, such as gasoline and We use derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure gasoil: and for natural gas and power.
Gains and losses, otherwise referred relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, to as variation margin, are generally settled on a daily basis with the natural gas and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and risk recorded at historical cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, management of crude oil, refined products, and natural gas and power.
are required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity in the income statement.
This is because hedge accounting is either not derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues for permitted or not followed, principally due to the impracticality of accounting purposes.
Therefore, measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on Over-the-counter contracts these inventories are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a Contracts that are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
Gains and losses on the related derivative Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties or commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the through brokers, others may be cleared by a central clearing time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value counterparty.
These contracts can be used both for trading and risk basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on overBP enters into commodity contracts to meet certain business the-counter OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery or the sale of revenues for accounting purposes.
Many grades of crude oil bought and BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are treated as sold use standard contracts including US domestic light sweet crude oil, derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as commonly referred to as West Texas Intermediate, and a standard part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions.
Gains and losses arising North Sea crude blend Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk BFOE.
are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative Forward contracts are used in connection with the purchase of crude oil commodity contract is entered into.
supplies for refineries, products for marketing and sales of the groups oil production and refined products.
The contracts typically contain standard IFRS require that inventory held for trading is recorded at its fair value delivery and settlement terms.
These transactions call for physical using period-end spot prices, whereas any related derivative commodity delivery of oil with consequent operational and price risk.
However, instruments are required to be recorded at values based on forward various means exist and are used from time to time, to settle obligations prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market under the contracts in cash rather than through physical delivery.
conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot 256 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Shareholder information prices, resulting in measurement differences.
BP enters into contracts for LNG train pipelines and storage capacity, oil and gas processing and liquefied An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural gas natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are recorded on an accruals basis.
These contracts are risk-managed using a variety of derivative Major projects instruments that are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in measurement Have a BP net investment of at least $250 million, or are considered to differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
be of strategic importance to BP or of a high degree of complexity.
The way BP manages the economic exposures described above, and Net cash margin measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities Net cash margin is defined by Solomon Associates as the net margin are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for consolidated achieved after subtracting cash operating expenses and adding any entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements internal refinery revenue from other sources.
Net cash margin is expressed in US measure of performance.
Under managements internal measure of dollars per barrel of net refinery input.
performance the inventory and capacity contracts in question are valued Net debt and net debt ratio gearing based on fair value using relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of Non-GAAP measures.
Net debt is calculated as gross finance debt, as the period.
The fair values of certain derivative instruments used to risk shown in the balance sheet, plus the fair value of associated derivative manage LNG and oil and gas processing contracts are deferred to match financial instruments that are used to hedge foreign currency exchange with the underlying exposure and the commodity contracts for business and interest rate risks relating to finance debt, for which hedge requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We believe that accounting is applied, less cash and cash equivalents.
The net debt ratio disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful is defined as the ratio of net debt to the total of net debt plus total equity.
information for investors because it enables investors to see the All components of equity are included in the denominator of the economic effect of these activities as a whole.
BP believes these measures provide useful information to Free cash flow investors.
Net debt enables investors to see the economic effect of gross Operating cash flow less net cash used in investing activities, as debt, related hedges and cash and cash equivalents in total.
The net debt presented in the group cash flow statement.
ratio enables investors to see how significant net debt is relative to equity from shareholders.
The derivatives are reported on the balance sheet Gearing within the headings Derivative financial instruments.
See Financial See Net debt and net debt ratio definition.
statements Note 26 for information on gross debt, which is the nearest Henry Hub equivalent measure to net debt on an IFRS basis.
A distribution hub on the natural gas pipeline system in Erath, Louisiana, Net income per barrel that lends its name to the pricing point for natural gas futures contracts Non-GAAP measure.
Net income per barrel is calculated by taking traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange and the over the counter underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax for the swaps traded on Intercontinental Exchange.
Downstream segment, deducting tax at an assumed 30% effective tax Hydrocarbons rate on underlying replacement cost profit and then dividing this notional Liquids and natural gas.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at post tax underlying replacement cost profit by the Downstream 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
Inventory holding gains and losses Net investment organic The difference between the cost of sales calculated using the Net investment organic is organic capital expenditure less the value of replacement cost of inventory and the cost of sales calculated on the divestments announced in the year.
first-in first-out FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in Net wind generation capacity provisions where the net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its The sum of the rated capacities of the assets turbines that have entered cost.
Under the FIFO method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost into commercial operation, including BPs share of equity-accounted of inventory charged to the income statement is based on its historical entities.
The gross data is the equivalent capacity on a gross-joint venture cost of purchase or manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In basis, which includes 100% of the capacity of equity-accounted entities volatile energy markets, this can have a significant distorting effect on where BP has partial ownership.
The amounts disclosed represent the difference Non-operating items between the charge to the income statement for inventory on a FIFO Charges and credits are included in the financial statements that BP basis after adjusting for any related movements in net realizable value discloses separately because it considers such disclosures to be provisions and the charge that would have arisen based on the meaningful and relevant to investors.
They are items that management replacement cost of inventory.
For this purpose, the replacement cost of considers not to be part of underlying business operations and are inventory is calculated using data from each operations production and disclosed in order to enable investors better to understand and evaluate manufacturing system, either on a monthly basis, or separately for each the groups reported financial performance.
Non-operating items within transaction where the system allows this approach.
The amounts equity-accounted earnings are reported net of incremental income tax disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial statements as a reported by the equity-accounted entity.
An analysis of non-operating gain or loss.
No adjustment is made in respect of the cost of inventories items by segment and type is shown on page 217. held as part of a trading position and certain other temporary inventory Operating capital employed positions.
See Replacement cost RC profit or loss definition below.
Total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, Joint arrangement excluding finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
An arrangement in which two or more parties have joint control.
Operating cash flow and operating cash Joint control Net cash provided by used in operating activities as stated in the group cash Contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists flow statement.
When used in the context of a segment rather than the only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous group, the terms refer to the segments share thereof.
consent of the parties sharing control.
Operating management system OMS Joint operation BPs OMS helps us manage risks in our operating activities by setting out A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the BPs principles for good operating practice.
It brings together BP arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, requirements on health, safety, security, the environment, social relating to the arrangement.
responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, such as Joint venture maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, into a A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the common management system.
arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Organic capital expenditure Liquids Excludes acquisitions, asset exchanges, and other inorganic capital Comprises crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
An analysis of capital expenditure by segment and region is Upstream segment, it also includes bitumen.
shown in Financial statements Note 5.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 257
