granted OSHAs petition for review and briefing was completed in the California False Claims Act matters first half of 2014.
The Review Commission is not expected to issue its On 4 November 2014 the California Attorney General filed a notice in decision until later this year at the earliest.
California state court that it was intervening in a previously-sealed California False Claims Act CFCA lawsuit filed by relator Christopher Prudhoe Bay leak Schroen against BP, BP Energy Company, BP Corporation North America In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines operated Inc. BP Products and BPAPC.
On 7 January 2015, the California Attorney by BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit on the General filed a complaint in intervention alleging that BP violated the North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. shareholder filed a CFCA and the California Unfair Competition Law by falsely and consolidated complaint alleging violations of federal securities law on fraudulently overcharging California state entities for natural gas.
The behalf of a putative class of BP p. l. c. shareholders, based on alleged relators complaint makes similar allegations, in addition to individual misrepresentations concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay pipeline claims.
The complaints seek treble damages, punitive damages, penalties before its shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 7 December 2015, the and injunctive relief.
On 9 April 2015, the BP defendants filed a demurrer, complaint was dismissed with prejudice.
On 5 January 2016, plaintiffs motion to strike and motion to dismiss forum non conveniens to the filed a notice of appeal of that decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of relators claims that were not adopted in the Attorney Generals Appeals.
complaint, which was denied on 10 June 2015.
BP filed additional Lead paint matters demurrers to the Attorney Generals and the relators complaints, which Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary were granted in part and denied in part on 14 August 2015.
On of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought 22 September 2015, BP filed its answer and affirmative defenses.
Trial is in the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment scheduled to commence on 10 July 2017. in paint.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed Scharfstein v. BP West Coast Products, LLC against Atlantic Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as A purported class action lawsuit was filed against BP West Coast alleged successor to International Smelting and Refining and another Products, LLC in Oregon State Court under the Oregon Unlawful Trade company that manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
Practices Act on behalf of customers who used a debit card at ARCO The plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the gasoline stations in Oregon during the period 1 January 2011 to lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek various remedies 30 August 2013, alleging that ARCOs Oregon sites failed to provide including compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost to find and sufficient notice of the 35 cents per transaction debit card fee.
After a remove lead paint from buildings, medical monitoring and screening jury trial and subsequent hearing, in 2014 the jury rendered a verdict programmes, public warning and education of lead hazards, against BP and determined that statutory damages of $200 per class reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for member should be awarded.
On 25 August 2015, the court determined lead-poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic the size of the class to be slightly in excess of two million members.
BP Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a intends to appeal.
No provision has been made for damages arising out final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if of this class action.
such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible See Financial statements Note 32 for additional information on the to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes groups legal proceedings.
that it has valid defences.
It intends to defend such actions vigorously and believes that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP International trade sanctions believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results, financial During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries, or other position or liquidity will not be material.
non-US entities of BP, conducted limited activities in, or with persons Abbott Atlantis related matters from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State In April 2009, Kenneth Abbott, as relator, filed a US False Claims Act Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US and EU sanctions lawsuit against BP, alleging that BP violated federal regulations, and Sanctioned Countries.
Sanctions restrictions continue to be insignificant made false statements in connection with its compliance with those to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
BP monitors regulations, by failing to have necessary documentation for the Atlantis its activities with Sanctioned Countries, persons from Sanctioned subsea and other systems.
BP is the operator and 56% interest owner of Countries and individuals and companies subject to US and EU sanctions the Atlantis unit which is in production in the Gulf of Mexico.
On and seeks to comply with applicable sanctions laws and regulations.
21 August 2014, the court granted BPs motions for summary judgment.
The US and the EU sanctions against Iran that were in place in 2015 On 28 August 2014, the court entered final judgment in favour of BP.
In included: in the US, sanctions against persons involved with Irans September 2014 the plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration, which BP energy, shipping and petrochemicals industries, and sanctions against opposed.
On 18 December 2015, the judge denied plaintiffs motion for financial institutions that engage in significant transactions with the Iran reconsideration.
On 8 January 2016, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal.
Central Bank: and in the EU, a prohibition on the import, purchase and EC investigation and related matters transport of Iranian-origin crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas.
On 14 May 2013, European Commission officials made a series of Additionally, the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of unannounced inspections at the offices of BP and other companies 2012 ITRA added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, involved in the oil industry acting on concerns that anticompetitive as amended the Exchange Act, and requires that issuers must file practices may have occurred in connection with oil price reporting annual or quarterly reports under the Exchange Act to disclose in such practices and the reference price assessment process.
Related inquiries reports whether, during the period covered by the report, the registrant and requests for information were also received from US and other or its affiliates have knowingly engaged in certain, principally Iran-related, regulators following the European Commissions actions, including from activities.
the Japanese Fair Trade Commission, the Korean Fair Trade Commission, The US and the EU implemented temporary, limited and reversible relief the Federal Trade Commission FTC and the CFTC.
On 1 October 2014, of certain sanctions related to Iran pursuant to a Joint Plan of Action BP was informed by the FTC that it was closing its investigation.
On JPOA entered by Iran, China, France, Germany, Russia, the UK and the 7 December 2015, the European Commission confirmed that it has US with effect from 20 January 2014 and in July 2015, these countries dropped BP from its investigation.
agreed the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action JCPOA.
Following the In addition, 15 purported class actions related to these matters have been JCPOA, BP representatives visited Iran, met Iranian government officials filed in US district courts alleging manipulation and antitrust violations and met other Iranian nationals.
Such meetings were introductory in under the Commodity Exchange Act and US antitrust laws, and these nature with a view to considering possible future business opportunities.
purported class actions have been consolidated in federal court in Following confirmation by the International Atomic Energy Agency on New York.
16 January 2016 Implementation Day that Iran had fully implemented the JCPOA measures necessary for sanctions relief, the European Union 242 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
