Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the groups loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the group in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise: Group Parent company Group balance sheet as at 31 December 2015.
Balance sheet as at 31 December 2015.
Group income statement for the year then ended.
Cash flow statement for the year then ended.
Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended.
Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Related Notes 1 to 15 to the financial statements.
Group cash flow statement for the year then ended.
Related Notes 1 to 37 to the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
These matters are unchanged from those we reported in our 2014 audit opinion.
Risk Our response to the risk What we concluded to the Audit Committee The determination of the liabilities, contingent liabilities For the Gulf of Mexico oil spill the primary audit engagement Based on our and disclosures arising from the significant uncertainties team performed the following audit procedures.
procedures we are related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill as described on page satisfied that the We walked through and tested the controls designed and 70 of the report of the audit committee and Notes 1 and 2 of the amounts provided by operated by the group relating to the liability accounts for the financial statements.
management are Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
On 2 July 2015, the group announced it had reached We met with the groups legal team to understand agreements in principle with the United States federal developments across all of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill matters We are satisfied that government and five Gulf states to settle all federal and state and their status.
We discussed legal developments with the management is claims arising from the incident.
groups external lawyers and read determinations and unable to determine judgments made by the courts.
a reliable estimate The proposed Consent Decree to resolve all United States and We reviewed the agreements in principle, verifying that for certain Gulf states natural resource damage claims and Clean Water Act specific matters were accurately reflected in the groups obligations as penalty claims is awaiting court approval.
The United States is accounting and disclosures.
disclosed in Note 2 expected to file a motion with the court to enter the Consent With regard to PSC settlements, we engaged EY actuarial of the financial Decree as a final settlement around the end of March, which the experts to consider the analysis of available claims data statements.
Although there is still risk, the undertaken by management.
We corroborated the data used agreements in principle have significantly reduced the uncertainty Given the in respect of all claim categories, with specific regard to associated with this element of the liability determination for 2015. agreements in business economic loss, this being the most complex to Following the agreements in principle, we concluded the principle signed on estimate.
Our testing included understanding and verifying remaining uncertainties were no longer fundamental to a users 2 July 2015 we trends in the actuarial models, considering the approach in understanding of the financial statements and therefore we have consider it respect of all claim categories which included comparing with removed the Emphasis of Matter from our 2015 audit opinion.
appropriate that the prior periods.
Emphasis of Matter There continues to be uncertainty regarding the outcome of We considered the accounting treatment of the liabilities, is no longer required Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC settlements, the most contingent liabilities and disclosures under IFRS criteria, to in our audit opinion.
substantial category being business economic loss claims.
The conclude whether these were appropriate in all the 8 June 2015 deadline for claims resulted in a significant number circumstances.
of claims received, which have not yet been processed and quantified.
Management concluded that a reliable estimation of the expected liability still cannot be made at 31 December 2015.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
96 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
