Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 The financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 were approved and signed by the BP group chief executive on 4 March 2016 having been duly authorized to do so by the board of directors.
The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 FRS 100 issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Accordingly, these financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101 and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
There were no material measurement or recognition adjustments on the adoption of FRS 101.
See Note 14 for further information.
Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the company is not presented as part of these financial statements.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million.
Significant accounting policies: use of judgements, estimates and assumptions Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements is the need for management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
The accounting judgements and estimates that could have a significant impact on the results of the company are set out in boxed text below, and should be read in conjunction with the information provided in the Notes on financial statements.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at cost.
The company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the company makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount, the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Significant estimate or judgement: investments The recoverable amount, which is often the fair value less costs to sell, may be based upon discounted future cash flows.
The assumptions underlying these calculations, such as the discount rate, future oil and gas prices, and other asset specific factors, are judgemental.
Further information on the assumptions that are used in such calculations are included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currency translation The functional and presentation currency of the financial statements is US dollars.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differencesare included in the income statement.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by a non-US dollar functional currency branch are translated into US dollars are taken directly to reserves and reported in other comprehensive income.
Income statement transactions are translated into US dollars using the average exchange rate for the reporting period.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees of the company and other members of the BP group is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the employees become fully entitled to the award.
A corresponding credit is recognized within equity.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate, widely used, valuation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked tothe price of the shares of the company market conditions.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the condition that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken into account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a non-vesting condition, where this is within the control of the employee, is treated as a cancellation and any remaining unrecognized cost is expensed.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, measured by reference to the fair value of the corresponding liability which is recognized on the balance sheet.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet date until settlement, with changes in fair value recognized in the income statement.
Pensions The cost of providing benefits under the companys defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Past service costs, resulting from either a plan amendment or a curtailment a reduction in future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership, are recognized immediately when the company becomes committed to a change.
The parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. on pages 196-213 do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
198 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Net interest expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits, which is recognized in the income statement, represents the net change in present value of plan obligations and the value of plan assets resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the present value of the benefit obligation at the start of the year, and to the fair value of plan assets at the start of the year, taking into account expected changes in the obligation or plan assets during the year.
Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability and asset, comprising actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest described above are recognized within other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently reclassified to profit and loss.
The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
Defined benefit pension plan surpluses are only recognized to the extent they are recoverable.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Significant estimate or judgement: pensions and other post-retirement benefits Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations and net interest expense and assumptions for inflation rates.
These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which would affect future net income and net assets.
Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also affect future net income and net assets.
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are reviewed by management at the end of each year.
The assumptions used are provided in Note 6.
Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Interest and penalties relating to income tax are also included in the income tax expense.
Income tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it is determined in accordance with the rules established by the applicable taxation authorities.
It therefore excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods as well as items that are never taxable or deductible.
The companys liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that they will be realized in the future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Significant estimate or judgement: deferred tax Management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognized, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxable profits.
Financial assets All financial assets held by the company are classified as loans and receivables.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, other receivables, loans, and other investments.
The company determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial assets includes other receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Financial liabilities All financial liabilities held by the company are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost.
Financial liabilities include other payables, accruals, and most items of finance debt.
The company determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively in interest and other income and finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes other payables, financial guarantees and finance debt.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 199
