Financial statements Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The board of directors and shareholders of BP p. l. c. We have audited the accompanying group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. as of 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, and the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2015.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the group financial position of BP p. l. c. at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014, and the group results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2015, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on criteria established in the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and our report dated 4 March 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion.
s Ernst & Young LLP London, United Kingdom 4 March 2016 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 101
