In 2012 further EU and US regulations concerning restrictive measures security situation and the term of the agreement expired at the end of against Iran were issued.
The Shah Deniz joint operation and its gas 2015.
BP is entitled to recover all costs incurred to that date.
Despite marketing and pipeline entities, in which Naftiran Intertrade Co Ltd instability and sectarian violence in the north and west of the country, BP NICO has an interest, were excluded from the main operative operations continued as planned in the south.
provisions of the EU regulations, and from the application of the new In Russia, we acquired a 20% participatory interest in a Rosneft US sanctions, as they fall within the exception for certain natural gas subsidiary, Taas-Yuryakh Neftegazodobycha, in 2015, that will further projects under Section 603 of the US Iran Threat Reduction and Syria develop the Srednebotuobinskoye oil and gas condensate field in East Human Rights Act of 2012.
The Shah Deniz Stage 2 project is also Siberia.
Related to this, Rosneft and BP will jointly undertake exploration excluded from the EU and US sanctions.
For further information see in an adjacent area of mutual interest.
International trade sanctions on page 242.
Rosneft and BP have also agreed to jointly explore two additional areas of In April we received final ratification by the government of Azerbaijan mutual interest in the prolific West Siberian and Yenisey-Khatanga basins on the new PSA with the State Oil Company of the Republic of where they will jointly appraise the Baikalovskoye discovery subject to Azerbaijan, signed in December 2014, to jointly explore for and develop receipt of all relevant consents.
This is in addition to the exploration potential prospects in the shallow water area around the Absheron agreement announced in 2014 for an area of mutual interest in the Volgapeninsula.
Urals region of Russia where Rosneft and BP have commenced joint The Shah Deniz Stage 2 project continues to move ahead with a study work to assess potential non-shale, unconventional tight-oil number of milestones achieved ahead of schedule.
The Shah Deniz exploration projects see Rosneft on page 38.
Stage 2 project is now more than 50% complete in terms of engineering, procurement and construction, and remains on target for Australasia first gas in 2018.
We are active in Australia and Eastern Indonesia.
BP holds a 30.1% interest in and operates the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC In Australia BP is one of seven participants in the North West Shelf oil pipeline.
The 1,768 kilometre pipeline transports oil from the BPNWS venture, which has been producing LNG, pipeline gas, operated ACG oilfield and gas condensate from the Shah Deniz gas field condensate, LPG and oil since the 1980s.
Six partners including BP hold in the Caspian Sea, along with other third-party oil, to the eastern an equal 16.67% interest in the gas infrastructure and an equal 15.78% Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
The BTC pipeline has a capacity of interest in the gas and condensate reserves, with a seventh partner 1mmboe d with average throughput in 2015 of 716.7mboe d. owning the remaining 5.32%.
BP also has a 16.67% interest in some of BP is technical operator of, and currently holds a 28.83% interest in, the the NWS oil reserves and related infrastructure.
The NWS venture is 693 kilometre South Caucasus Pipeline SCP.
The pipeline takes gas from currently the principal supplier to the domestic market in Western Azerbaijan through Georgia to the Turkish border and has a capacity of Australia and one of the largest LNG export projects in the region, with 134mboe d with average throughput in 2015 of 113.2mboe d. BP as five LNG trains in operation.
BPs net share of the capacity of NWS LNG operator of Azerbaijan International Operating Company also operates the trains 1-5 is 2.7 million tonnes of LNG per annum.
Western Export Route Pipeline that transports ACG oil to Supsa on the BP also holds a 5.375% interest in the Jansz-lo field and 12.5% interests Black Sea coast of Georgia, with average throughput of 86mboe d in 2015. in the Geryon, Orthrus, Maenad, Urania and Eurytion fields which are part In April BP became a shareholder in the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas of the Greater Gorgon project.
BPs Jansz-Io interest is in the reserves Pipeline TANAP, and now holds a 12% equity share in the project.
and wells which will provide the initial feed gas to the Gorgon LNG plant, TANAP is a central part of the Southern Corridor pipeline system that will scheduled to commence production in early 2016. transport gas from the Shah Deniz field in Azerbaijan to markets in Turkey, Greece, Bulgaria and Italy.
BP holds a 70% interest in four deepwater offshore exploration blocks in In Oman, BP is continuing with development activity on the BP-operated the Ceduna Sub Basin in the Great Australian Bight off the coast of Khazzan field in block 61 BP 60%.
BP, as operator, expects drilling to commence in late By the end of 2015 10 rigs were operational, drilling the development 2016 in this frontier exploration basin.
It is also one of five participants in wells at Khazzan.
The project is more than 40% complete and work the Browse LNG venture operated by Woodside and holds a 17% continues on the central processing facility and the associated interest.
Gas production is expected to start in late 2017.
The Browse joint operation partners agreed to enter FEED for an In February 2016 BP announced it had signed a heads of agreement offshore floating LNG concept in June.
The proposed development with the government of the Sultanate of Oman to amend the block 61 remains subject to regulatory, joint venture and internal BP approvals.
EPSA, extending the licence area of the block and enabling further In October the Western Flank A project BP 16.67% in offshore development of the Khazzan field.
The Western Flank A project is In Abu Dhabi, we have an equity interest of 14.67% in an offshore the first of a series of subsea tie-back projects that have been concession.
We also have a 10% equity shareholding in the Abu Dhabi undertaken to extend the production plateau and supply additional gas Gas Liquefaction Company that supplied 5.7 million tonnes of LNG to the NWSs five existing LNG trains and domestic gas plant.
The 295.7bcfe regasified in 2015. project is operated by Woodside.
In India, we have a 30% interest in four oil and gas PSAs operated by The Persephone project BP 16.67% is the second of the NWS series Reliance Industries Limited RIL, and partner with RIL in a 50:50 joint of subsea tie-back projects and is on schedule to deliver first gas in the operation for the gas sourcing and marketing in India.
In 2015 a number of activities to sustain production and extend the life In Eastern Indonesia, BP operates the Tangguh LNG plant.
Tangguh of the producing fields in KG D6 block were completed.
These included BP 37.16%, is located in Papua Barat.
The asset comprises 14 producing well side-tracks, the installation of additional onshore compression, wells, two offshore platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant with two reactivation of shut-in wells and production optimization.
It has a total capacity of 7.6 million tonnes of LNG per We also undertook successful tests of three earlier discoveries: two in annum.
Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in Indonesia, China, South the KG D6 block and one in the NEC 25 block to progress towards Korea, Mexico and Japan through a combination of long, medium and Declaration of Commerciality.
Plans for a third train, the Tangguh expansion project, We continue to expect further clarity on the gas price policy to emerge remain on track, with first production expected in 2020. in due course.
The Tangguh expansion project is progressing, with completion of dual In Iraq, BP holds a 47.6% working interest and is the lead contractor in onshore FEED to two separate consortia on the third LNG train during the Rumaila technical service contract in Southern Iraq.
Marketing on the third train capacity continues, with 65% of the the worlds largest oil fields, comprising five producing reservoirs.
total assets in Iraq at 31 December 2015 were $1,707 million $1,281 million current and $426 million non-current.
BP has undertaken BP has 100% interests in two deepwater PSAs, West Aru I and II, and studies with the government of Iraq and North Oil Company in support of 32% interests in the Chevron-operated West Papua I and Ill PSAs.
These the stabilization and redevelopment of two producing reservoirs in the PSAs will be relinquished pending approval from the government of Kirkuk field.
Access to the Kirkuk field in 2015 was restricted due to the Indonesia.
224 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
