Additional disclosures and the United States lifted certain nuclear related sanctions, with the EU Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of ITRA lifting nuclear related primary sanctions and the United States To our knowledge, none of BPs activities, transactions or dealings are suspending nuclear related secondary sanctions.
BP will consider future required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section 219, with the following business opportunities in relation to Iran and engage in discussions with possible exception: Iranian government officials and other Iranian nationals, insofar as this is Rhum, located in the UK sector of the North Sea, is operated by in compliance with applicable sanctions.
BP Exploration Operating Company Limited BPEOC, a non-US BP has interests in and operates the North Sea Rhum field Rhum and subsidiary of BP.
Rhum is owned under a 50:50 unincorporated joint the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz field Shah Deniz, in which Naftiran Intertrade arrangement between BPEOC and Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited Co. Limited and NICO SPV Limited collectively, NICO or Iranian Oil IOC.
The Rhum joint arrangement was originally formed in 1974.
During Company U. K. Limited IOC UK have interests.
Additionally, BP has the period of production from the field, the Rhum joint arrangement interests in a gas marketing entity and a gas pipeline entity in which supplied natural gas and certain associated liquids to the UK.
On NICO or IOC UK have interests, although both entities and their related 16 November 2010, production from Rhum was suspended in response assets are located outside Iran.
Production was suspended at Rhum in to relevant EU sanctions.
Operations at the Rhum gas field which IOC UK has a 50% interest in November 2010.
On 22 October recommenced in mid-October 2014 in accordance with the UK 2013, the UK government announced a temporary management scheme governments Temporary Scheme see above.
During the year ended the Temporary Scheme under The Hydrocarbon Temporary 31 December 2015, BP recorded gross revenues of $104.5 million Management Scheme Regulations 2013, under which the UK related to its interests in Rhum.
BP had a net profit of $88.7 million for government assumed control of and managed IOC UKs interest in the the year ended 31 December 2015, including an impairment reversal of Rhum field, thereby permitting Rhum operations to recommence in $67.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. accordance with applicable EU regulations and in compliance with a BP currently intends to continue to hold its ownership stake in the Rhum licence from OFAC.
Operations at the Rhum gas field recommenced in joint arrangement and act as operator.
Following Implementation Day, the Temporary Management Scheme will cease and BP has applied for an amended OFAC licence.
In the meantime, operations have continued at Rhum.
Material contracts Shah Deniz, its gas marketing entity and the gas pipeline entity in which On 13 March 2014, BP, BP Exploration & Production Inc. and other BP NICO has a 10% or less non-operating interest continue in operation.
entities entered into an administrative agreement with the US The Shah Deniz joint operation and its gas marketing and pipeline Environmental Protection Agency, which resolved all issues related to the suspension or debarment of BP entities arising from the 20 April 2010 entities were excluded from the main operative provisions of the EU explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon and regulations as well as from the application of the US sanctions, and fall resulting oil spill.
The administrative agreement allows BP entities to within the exception for certain natural gas projects under Section 603 enter into new contracts or leases with the US government.
terms and conditions of this agreement, which will apply for five years, BP has no current operating activities in Iran.
BP holds an interest in a BP has agreed to a set of safety and operations, ethics and compliance non-BP operated Indian joint venture which sold crude oil to an Indian and corporate governance requirements.
The agreement is governed by entity in which NICO holds a minority, non-controlling stake.
had ceased in January 2014 but resumed in 2015.
BP Exploration & Production Inc. BP Corporation North America Inc.
Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Syria, BP p. l. c. the United States and the states of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US Mississippi and Texas the Gulf states entered into a proposed Consent prohibition on the provision of services to Syria by US persons.
The EU Decree to fully and finally resolve any and all natural resource damages NRD claims of the United States, the Gulf states, and their respective sanctions against Syria include a prohibition on supplying certain natural resource trustees and all Clean Water Act CWA penalty claims, equipment used in the production, refining, or liquefaction of petroleum and certain other claims of the United States and the Gulf states.
The resources, as well as restrictions on dealing with the Central Bank of United States lodged the proposed Consent Decree with the district Syria and numerous other Syrian financial institutions.
Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against Concurrently, BP entered into a definitive Settlement Agreement with Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into the Gulf states Settlement Agreement with respect to State claims for Syria, though BP continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental economic, property and other losses.
Syrian resellers outside of Syria.
The proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement are BP has equity interests in non-operated joint arrangements with air fuel conditional upon each other and neither will become effective unless sellers, resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
From time there is final court approval of the Consent Decree.
BP has filed the to time, the joint arrangement operator or other partners may sell or proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement as exhibits to deliver fuel to airlines from Sanctioned Countries or flights to Sanctioned its Annual Report on Form 20-F 2015 filed with the SEC.
For further Countries without BPs prior knowledge or consent.
BP has registered details of the proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement, and paid required fees for patents and trade marks in Sanctioned see Legal proceedings on page 238.
Property, plant and equipment BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint arrangement and trades BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate and other tangible in small quantities of lubricants.
assets in numerous countries, but no individual property is significant to During 2014 the US and the EU imposed sanctions on certain Russian the group as a whole.
For more on the significant subsidiaries of the activities, individuals and entities, including Rosneft.
Certain sectoral group at 31 December 2015 and the group percentage of ordinary share sanctions also apply to entities owned 50% or more by entities on the capital see Financial statements Note 36.
For information on relevant sectoral sanctions list.
Ruhr Oel GmbH ROG is a 50:50 joint significant joint ventures and associates of the group see Financial operation with Rosneft, operated by BP, which holds interests in a statements Notes 15 and 16. number of refineries in Germany.
To date, these sanctions have had no material adverse impact on BP or ROG.
On 15 January 2016 BP Related-party transactions announced that it had signed definitive agreements with Rosneft to Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and dissolve ROG.
associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 15 and Note 16.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into transactions with various organizations with which some of its directors Defined on page 256.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 243
