Additional disclosures a Subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities volumes in mmboe Oil and gas disclosures for the group Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2015 7,788 Resource progression Revisions of previous estimates 300 Improved recovery 111 BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: prospect inventory, contingent resources and reserves.
When a Discoveries and extensions 339 discovery is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory Purchases 126 to the contingent resources category.
The contingent resources move Sales 17 through various sub-categories as their technical and commercial Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 8,646 maturity increases through appraisal activity.
Progressed to proved developed reserves 959 At the point of final investment decision, most proved reserves will be Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2015 7,687 categorized as proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently be recategorized from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of a Subsidiaries only volumes in mmboe development activity.
When part of a wells proved reserves depends on a later phase of activity, only that portion of proved reserves associated Proved undeveloped reserves at 1 January 2015 4,507 with existing, available facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first Revisions of previous estimates 61 PD bookings will typically occur at the point of first oil or gas production.
Improved recovery 106 Major development projects typically take one to five years from the time Discoveries and extensions 79 of initial booking of PUD to the start of production.
Changes to proved Purchases 101 reserves bookings may be made due to analysis of new or existing data Sales 17 concerning production, reservoir performance, commercial factors and Total in year proved undeveloped reserves changes 4,837 additional reservoir development activity.
Progressed to proved developed reserves 626 Volumes can also be added or removed from our portfolio through Proved undeveloped reserves at 31 December 2015 4,211 acquisition or divestment of properties and projects.
When we dispose of a an interest in a property or project, the volumes associated with our Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their component parts.
adopted plan of development for which we have a final investment BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of decision will be removed from our proved reserves upon completion.
reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and commercial When we acquire an interest in a property or project, the volumes assessments based on conventional industry practice and regulatory associated with the existing development and any committed projects requirements.
BP only applies technologies that have been field tested will be added to our proved reserves if BP has made a final investment and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results with decision and they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in an status.
Following the acquisition, additional volumes may be progressed analogous formation.
BP applies high-resolution seismic data for the to proved reserves from non-proved reserves or contingent resources.
identification of reservoir extent and fluid contacts only where there is an Non-proved reserves and contingent resources in a field will only be overwhelming track record of success in its local application.
In certain recategorized as proved reserves when all the criteria for attribution of cases BP uses numerical simulation as part of a holistic assessment of proved status have been met and the volumes are included in the recovery factor for its fields, where these simulations have been field business plan and scheduled for development, typically within five years.
tested and have been demonstrated to provide reasonably certain results BP will only book proved reserves where development is scheduled to with consistency and repeatability in the formation being evaluated or in commence after more than five years, if these proved reserves satisfy an analogous formation.
In certain deepwater fields BP has booked the SECs criteria for attribution of proved status and BP management proved reserves before production flow tests are conducted, in part has reasonable certainty that these proved reserves will be produced.
because of the significant safety, cost and environmental implications of At the end of 2015 BP had material volumes of proved undeveloped conducting these tests.
The industry has made substantial technological reserves held for more than five years in Trinidad, the North Sea and the improvements in understanding, measuring and delineating reservoir Gulf of Mexico.
These are part of ongoing infrastructure-led development properties without the need for flow tests.
To determine reasonable activities for which BP has a historical track record of completing certainty of commercial recovery, BP employs a general method of comparable projects in these countries.
We have no proved undeveloped reserves assessment that relies on the integration of three types of data: reserves held for more than five years in our onshore US developments.
Well data used to assess the local characteristics and conditions of In each case the volumes are being progressed as part of an adopted reservoirs and fluids.
development plan where there are physical limits to the development 2.
Field scale seismic data to allow the interpolation and extrapolation of timing such as infrastructure limitations, contractual limits including gas these characteristics outside the immediate area of the local well delivery commitments, late life compression and the complex nature of control.
Over the past five years, BP has annually progressed a weighted average 3.
Data from relevant analogous fields.
18% of our group proved undeveloped reserves including the impact of Well data includes appraisal wells or sidetrack holes, full logging suites, disposals and price acceleration effects in PSAs to proved developed core data and fluid samples.
BP considers the integration of this data in reserves.
This equates to a turnover time of about five and a half years.
certain cases to be superior to a flow test in providing understanding of We expect the turnover time to remain near this level and anticipate the overall reservoir performance.
The collection of data from logs, cores, volume of proved undeveloped reserves held for more than five years to wireline formation testers, pressures and fluid samples calibrated to each remain about the same.
other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir properties to be In 2015 we progressed 959mmboe of proved undeveloped reserves determined over a greater volume than the localized volume of 626mmboe for our subsidiaries alone to proved developed reserves investigation associated with a short-term flow test.
There is a strong through ongoing investment in our subsidiaries and equity-accounted track record of proved reserves recorded using these methods, validated entities upstream development activities.
Total development by actual production levels.
expenditure, excluding midstream activities, was $16,731 million in 2015 $13,458 million for subsidiaries and $3,273 million for equity-accounted entities.
The major areas with progressed volumes in 2015 were Angola, Azerbaijan, Russia, UK and US.
Revisions of previous estimates for proved undeveloped reserves are due to changes relating to field performance, well results or changes in commercial conditions including price impacts.
The following tables describe the changes to our proved undeveloped reserves position through the year for our subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities and for our subsidiaries alone.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 227
