Shareholder information in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be paid automatically owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 53 and other matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our strategy Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, on page 13 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 219. state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in company per ADS for the past five years.
respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total Taxation of dividends 2011 UK pence 26.02 25.68 25.90 26.82 104.42 UK taxation US cents 42 42 42 42 168 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from 2012 UK pence 30.57 30.90 30.10 33.53 125.10 dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
US cents 48 48 48 54 198 A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or 2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.40 trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not US cents 54 54 54 57 219 be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is 2014 UK pence 34.24 34.84 35.76 38.26 143.10 subject to UK tax but until 5 April 2016, is entitled to a tax credit on cash US cents 57 58.5 58.5 60 234 dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one- 2015 UK pence 40.00 39.18 39.29 39.81 158.28 ninth of the cash dividend.
US cents 60 60 60 60 240 US federal income taxation a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are provided in Financial statements Note 9.
A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income UK foreign exchange controls on dividends tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder that There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the preferential rate, provided that the holder has a holding period in the companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions or those beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding sanctions adopted by the UK government which implement resolutions period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the of the Security Council of the United Nations.
ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in Shareholder taxation information income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received It does not apply, however, inter alia to members of special classes of from other US corporations.
US ADS holders should consult their own tax holders some of which may be subject to other rules, including: taxadvisor regarding the US tax treatment of the dividend fee in respect of exempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in securities, traders in dividends.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the US and securities that elect a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities generally will be passive category income or, in the case of certain US holdings, investors liable for alternative minimum tax, holders that, holders, general category income, each of which is treated separately directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock, for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax credit limitation.
holders that hold the shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK conversion transaction, holders that purchase or sell the shares or ADSs withholding tax.
Accordingly, the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax purposes, or holders US holder to a foreign tax credit.
whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
In addition, if a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar rate on below.
the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
Generally, any A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is includible in domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and preferential tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign of the trust.
This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, published return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all as shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty.
laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section further assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the made by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK taxation eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 249 UK inheritance tax Taxation of capital gains The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an UK taxation individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i resident for national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the tax purposes in the United Kingdom at the date of disposal, ii if he has individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, left the UK for a period not exceeding five complete tax years between among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a the year of departure from and the year of return to the UK and acquired permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of the shares before leaving the UK and was resident in the UK in the independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are previous four out of seven tax years before the year of departure, iii a subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business Estate Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be being managed or controlled in the UK or iv a citizen of the US that credited against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be carries on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or credited against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in agency or a corporation that carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the Estate Tax Convention.
the UK, through a permanent establishment, and that has used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit practice of HM Revenue & Customs in the UK under existing law.
against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to that is paid in respect of such gain.
any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or ADSs payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US reserve tax.
and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the CREST Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an agreement for US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional agreement, when the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp duty reserve tax will apply to preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the agreement is made outside the UK between two non-residents.
Purchases of ordinary shares ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the outside the CREST system are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of 5 per 1,000 or part, unless the stamp duty is less than 5, when no other jurisdiction.
stamp duty is charged, or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty US federal income taxation and stamp duty reserve tax are generally the liability of the purchaser.
A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys nominee will give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50 per 100 or part equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realized on the disposition and the US holders tax basis, determined in or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
For ADR holders electing to receive US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Any such capital gain or loss generally will be long-term gain or loss, subject to tax at a preferential ADSs instead of cash, after the 2012 first quarter dividend payment HM Revenue & Customs no longer seeks to impose 1.5% stamp duty rate for a non-corporate US holder, if the US holders holding period for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
reserve tax on issues of UK shares and securities to non-EU clearance services and depositary receipt systems.
Gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign US Medicare Tax A US holder that is an individual or estate, or a trust that does not fall into tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to limitations.
a special class of trusts that is exempt from such tax, is subject to a 3.8% tax on the lesser of 1 the US holders net investment income or We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as stock undistributed net investment income in the case of an estate or trust of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income for the relevant taxable year and 2 the excess of the US holders tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made modified adjusted gross income for the taxable year over a certain annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, unless threshold which in the case of individuals is between $125,000 and a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with $250,000, depending on the individuals circumstances.
A holders net respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, any gain realized on the sale or other investment income generally includes its dividend income and its net disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as gains from the disposition of shares or ADSs, unless such dividend capital gain.
Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he or she had income or net gains are derived in the ordinary course of the conduct of a realized such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary shares or trade or business other than a trade or business that consists of certain ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such passive or trading activities.
If you are a US holder that is an individual, year to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an interest estate or trust, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would apply.
applicability of the Medicare tax to your income and gains in respect of Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we were your investment in the shares or ADSs.
Additional tax considerations Scrip Programme The company has an optional Scrip Programme, wherein holders of BP ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any dividends in the form of new fully paid ordinary shares or ADSs of the company instead of cash.
Please consult your tax adviser for the consequences to you.
250 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
