or executive officers are associated.
Except as described in this report, the conduct of directors.
In addition BP has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers as required by the SEC.
BP considers that these the group did not have material transactions or transactions of an codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for unusual nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the US companies.
period commencing 1 January 2015 to 16 February 2016.
Corporate governance practices Code of ethics In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, The significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices chief financial officer, group controller, general auditor and chief as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US accounting officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of the companies are listed as follows: Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to any officers.
Independence BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees, BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which officers and members of the board.
This was updated and published in reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based July 2014. approach to corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
Controls and procedures BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive directors be determined by the board to be independent in character and Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the company are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the listing standards.
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including Committees the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, as BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive management, including the group chief executive and chief financial committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
BP designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no composed solely of non-executive directors whom the board has evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control determined to be independent, in the manner described above.
issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main and procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls committee reports on pages 68-75.
BP has not, therefore, adopted and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated separate charters for each committee.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is procedures with respect to such entities are necessarily substantially required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not requirements.
The BP audit committee does not have direct be detected.
The companys disclosure controls and procedures have responsibility for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, independent auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by reasonable assurance standards.
making recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put The companys management, with the participation of the companys forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period accounting or related financial management expertise.
The board covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief determined that Brendan Nelson possessed such expertise and also executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys possesses the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit assurance level.
Mr Nelson is the audit committee financial Managements report on internal control over financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F. reporting Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements that the principal executive and financial officers to provide reasonable are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not explicitly assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting purposes considered material revisions.
Code of ethics As of the end of the 2015 fiscal year, management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of reporting in accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Councils business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees.
BP has adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial members of the board, and has board governance principles that address and Business Reporting.
Based on this assessment, management has 244 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
