Fees and charges payable by ADSs holders The Depositary collects fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of the distributable property to pay the fees.
The charges of the Depositary payable by investors are as follows: Type of service Depositary actions Fee Depositing or substituting the underlying Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion shares deposits and issuances in respect of: thereof evidenced by the new ADSs Share distributions, stock splits, rights, merger.
Exchange of securities or other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or deposited securities.
Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being an amount $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs that thereof.
would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities.
Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion securities.
thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered.
Expenses of the Depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable are subject to Stock transfer or other taxes and governmental charges.
agreement between the company Delivery by cable, telex, electronic and facsimile and the Depositary by billing holders transmission.
or by deducting charges from one or Transfer or registration fees, if applicable, for the more cash dividends or other cash registration of transfers of underlying shares.
Expenses of the Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency.
Dividend fees ADS holders who receive a cash dividend are charged a fee US$0.005 per BP ADS per quarter per which BP uses to offset the costs associated with cash distribution.
Under certain circumstances, including removal of the Depositary or Fees and payments made by the Depositary termination of the ADR programme by the company, the company is to the issuer required to repay the Depositary certain amounts reimbursed and or expenses paid to or on behalf of the company during the 12-month period The Depositary has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses prior to notice of removal or termination.
related to the companys ADS programme and incurred by the company in connection with the ADS programme arising during the year ended Documents on display 31 December 2015.
The Depositary reimbursed to the company, or paid amounts on the companys behalf to third parties, or waived its fees and BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 and BP Strategic Report 2015 are expenses, of $11,858,206.46 for the year ended 31 December 2015. available online at bp.
To obtain a hard copy of BPs complete audited financial statements, free of charge, UK based The table below sets out the types of expenses that the Depositary has shareholders should contact BP Distribution Services by calling agreed to reimburse and the fees it has agreed to waive for standard 44 0 870 241 3269 or by emailing @bp.
If costs associated with the administration of the ADS programme relating based in the US or Canada shareholders should contact Issuer Direct by to the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Depositary has also paid calling 1 888 301 2505 or by emailing bpreports@precisionir.
certain expenses directly to third parties on behalf of the company.
The company is subject to the information requirements of the US Amount reimbursed, waived or paid directly to third parties for the year Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In Category of expense reimbursed, ended 31 December 2015 accordance with these requirements, the company files its Annual waived or paid directly to third parties $ Report and Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It is Service fees and out of pocket expenses possible to read and copy documents that have been filed with the SEC a waived 37,650 at its headquarters located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, b Other third-party mailing costs reimbursed 54,014.67 US.
You may also call the SEC at 1 800-SEC-0330.
In addition, BPs c Dividend fees 11,766,541.79 SEC filings are available to the public at the SECs website.
BP discloses in this report see Corporate governance practices Form 20-F Item 16G Total 11,858,206.46 on page 244 significant ways if any in which its corporate governance a Includes fees in relation to transfer agent costs and costs of the BP Scrip Dividend Programme practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE operated by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. b Payment of fees to Precision IR for investor support.
c Dividend fees are charged to ADS holders who receive a cash distribution, which BP uses to offset the costs associated with administering the ADS programme.
254 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
