Additional disclosures certain large GHG stationary emission sources.
The EPA and the Legal proceedings National Highway Traffic Safety Administration are considering a proposed rulemaking to extend and tighten GHG emission and Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill fuel efficiency standards until 2027.
This will have an impact on Introduction BPs product mix and overall demand.
BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP was lease operator of Under the GHG mandatory reporting rule GHGMRR, annual Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico Macondo, where reports on GHG emissions must be filed.
In addition to direct the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the time of emissions from affected facilities, producers and importers the 20 April 2010 explosions and fire and resulting oil spill the Incident.
exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas liquids and The other working interest owners at the time of the Incident were GHGs are required to report product volumes and notional GHG Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko and MOEX Offshore 2007 emissions as if these products were fully combusted.
LLC, claims against whom were settled by BP in 2011.
The Deepwater The EPA proposed regulations establishing GHG emission limits Horizon, which was owned and operated by certain affiliates of for new and modified power plants in September 2013.
In June Transocean Ltd. Transocean, sank on 22 April 2010.
Lawsuits and 2014, the EPA proposed a Clean Energy Plan Regulation that claims arising from the Incident have generally been brought in US establishes GHG reduction requirements, at a state or regional federal and state courts.
The lawsuits have asserted, among others, level, for existing power plants.
The new and modified power claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90, claims for personal plant rule was finalized in August 2015 while the existing power injury in connection with the Incident itself and the response to it, plant rule was finalized in October 2015.
Legal challenges to both wrongful death, commercial and economic injury, breach of contract and rules have been filed by a number of US States: utility, coal, and violations of statutes.
The plaintiffs include individuals, corporations, mining companies: and the US Chamber of Commerce.
These insurers and governmental entities and many of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
rules are important due to potential impacts on electricity prices, reliability of electricity supply, precedents for similar rules Many of the lawsuits in federal court were consolidated by the Federal targeting other sectors and potential impacts on combined heat Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation into two multi-district litigation and power installations.
proceedings, one in federal district court in Houston for the securities, In January 2015, the US government announced plans to reduce derivative and Employee Retirement Income Security Act ERISA cases methane emissions from the oil and gas sector by 40-45% from MDL 2185 and another in federal district court in New Orleans for the remaining cases MDL 2179.
A Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC was 2012 levels by 2025.
In September 2015, the EPA proposed rules established to act on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in MDL aimed at limiting methane emissions from the oil and natural gas 2179.
These proceedings, and other material ongoing lawsuits and claims sector in the US with plans to finalize these rules in early 2016.
In arising from the Incident are discussed below.
January 2016, the BLM released proposed rules aimed at limiting methane emissions on federal lands from new, modified and Federal and state claims existing sources in the oil and gas sector.
If implemented as MDL 2179 Department of Justice DoJ Action and Trial of Liability, proposed, these EPA and BLM rules will require further actions by Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation our US upstream businesses to manage methane emissions.
The US filed a civil complaint in MDL 2179 against BPXP and others on A number of additional state and regional initiatives in the US will affect 15 December 2010 the DoJ Action.
The complaint sought an order our operations.
California implemented a low-carbon fuel standard in finding liability under OPA 90 for natural resources damages and civil 2010.
The California cap and trade programme started in January 2012 penalties under the Clean Water Act CWA.
To address certain issues with the first auctions of carbon allowances held in November 2012 asserted in or relevant to the claims, counterclaims, cross-claims, thirdand obligations commencing from 2013.
The California cap and trade party claims, and comparative fault defences raised in the DoJ Action, a programme was broadened to include transport fuels on 1 January Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation the Trial in 2015.
In the November 2014 US-China joint announcement on climate The district court issued its ruling on the first phase of the Trial in change addressing post-2020 actions, which was reaffirmed by the September 2014.
BPXP, BP America Production Company BPAPC and countries respective presidents in 2015, the US committed to various other parties were each found liable under general maritime law reducing its GHG emissions by 26-28% below its 2005 level by 2025. for the blowout, explosion and oil spill from the Macondo well.
With Achieving these reductions will require expanded efforts to reduce respect to the United States claim against BPXP under the CWA, the emissions, which likely will include regulatory measures.
China district court found that the discharge of oil was the result of BPXPs announced it intends to achieve a peak in CO emissions around 2030, 2 gross negligence and wilful misconduct and that BPXP was therefore with the intention to try to peak earlier and to increase the non-fossil subject to enhanced civil penalties.
fuel share of all energy to around 20% by 2030.
Currently, China has targets to reduce carbon intensity of GDP 40-45% below 2005 levels The district court issued its ruling on the second phase of the Trial in by 2020 and increase the share of non-fossil fuels in total energy January 2015.
It found that 3.19 million barrels of oil were discharged into consumption from 7.5% in 2005 to 15% by 2020. the Gulf of Mexico and were therefore subject to a CWA penalty.
In China is operating emission trading pilot programmes in five cities and addition, the district court found that BP was not grossly negligent in its two provinces.
A number of BP joint venture companies in China are source control efforts.
For further details of the Trial, see Legal participating in these schemes.
A nationwide carbon emissions trading proceedings in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014. market is expected to be launched in 2017 following the above seven BP appealed both rulings.
The penalty phase of the Trial involved consideration of the amount of China has also adopted more stringent vehicle tailpipe emission standards and vehicle efficiency standards to address air pollution and CWA civil penalties owed to the United States, and concluded in February 2015.
Briefing concluded on the post-trial briefing schedule for GHG emissions.
These standards will have an impact on transportation fuel product mix and overall demand.
the penalty phase on 24 April 2015.
South Africa has delayed implementation of a carbon tax on carbon State and local authority claims consolidated into MDL 2179 intensive emitters until 2017.
On 12 August 2010, the State of Alabama filed a lawsuit seeking damages for alleged economic and environmental harms, including For information on the steps that BP is taking in relation to climate change issues and for details of BPs GHG reporting see Environment natural resource damages, civil penalties under state law, declaratory and injunctive relief, and punitive damages as a result of the Incident.
On 3 March 2011, the State of Louisiana filed a lawsuit to declare various BP entities as well as other entities liable for removal costs and Defined on page 256.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 237 damages, including natural resource damages under federal and state The principal payments are as follows: law, to recover civil penalties, attorneys fees and response costs under BPXP is to pay the United States a civil penalty of $5.5 billion under the state law, and to recover for alleged negligence, nuisance, trespass, CWA payable over 15 years.
fraudulent concealment and negligent misrepresentation of material facts BPXP will pay $7.1 billion to the United States and the five Gulf states regarding safety procedures and BPs and other defendants ability to over 15 years for natural resource damages NRD.
This is in addition to manage the oil spill, unjust enrichment from economic and other the $1 billion already committed for early restoration.
BPXP will also damages to the State of Louisiana and its citizens, and punitive damages.
set aside an additional amount up to $700 million consisting of In addition, the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality issued an $232 million and the NRD interest payment see below partly to cover administrative order seeking environmental civil penalties and other relief any further natural resource damages that are unknown at the time of under state law.
On 10 December 2010, the Mississippi Department of Environmental A total of $4.9 billion will be paid over 18 years to settle economic and Quality issued a Complaint and Notice of Violation alleging violations of other claims made by the five Gulf Coast states.
Up to $1 billion to resolve claims made by more than 400 local government entities.
In April 2013, the states of Alabama, Florida and Mississippi each filed actions against BP related to the Incident, including general maritime law BPXP has also agreed to pay $350 million to cover outstanding NRD claims of negligence, gross negligence, and wilful misconduct: claims assessment costs and $250 million to cover the full settlement of under OPA 90 seeking damages for removal costs, natural resource outstanding response costs, claims related to the False Claims Act and damages, property damage, lost tax and other revenue and damages for royalties owed for the Macondo well.
These additional payments will be providing increased public services during or after removal activities: and paid over nine years, beginning in 2015. various state law claims.
NRD and CWA payments are scheduled to start 12 months after the On 17 May 2013, the State of Texas filed suit against BP and others in Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement become effective.
The federal court in Texas.
Its complaint asserted claims under OPA 90 for 2016 payments in respect of the state claims are due within 90 days of natural resource damages, lost sales tax and state park revenue: claims the Settlement Agreement becoming effective.
Total payments for NRD, for natural resource damages under the Comprehensive Environmental CWA and state claims will be made at a rate of around $1.1 billion a year Response, Compensation, and Liability Act: and claims for natural for the majority of the payment period.
resource damages, cost recovery, civil penalties and economic damages Interest will accrue at a fixed rate on the unpaid balance of the CWA and under state environmental statutes.
NRD payments, compounded annually and payable in year 16.
To address Each of these actions filed by the Gulf Coast states was consolidated possible natural resource damages unknown at the time of the with MDL 2179. settlement, beginning 10 years after the Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement become effective, the federal government and On 28 August 2015, the district court in MDL 2179 issued an order the five Gulf states may request accelerated payment of accrued but dismissing the local government entity master complaint in view of the unpaid interest on the NRD payments.
fact that the vast majority of local government entity plaintiffs who had preserved their claims had released their claims as part of the local Parent company guarantees for these payments will be provided by BP government entity settlement with BPXP as described below under Corporation North America Inc. as the primary guarantor and BP p. l. c. as Consent Decree and Settlement Agreement.
With respect to claims by the secondary guarantor.
local government entities that have not released their claims, the court The federal government and the Gulf states may jointly elect to held that they are time-barred except to the extent that those local accelerate the payments under the Consent Decree in the event of a government entities previously made timely presentment of their claims change of control or insolvency of BP p. l. c. and the Gulf states under OPA 90 and previously filed either a complaint or a valid short-form individually have similar acceleration rights under the Settlement joinder in the MDL 2179 master complaint for local government entities.
Consent Decree and Settlement Agreement The proposed Consent Decree and Settlement Agreement do not cover On 2 July 2015, BP announced that BPXP had executed agreements in the remaining costs of the 2012 class action settlements with the PSC principle with the United States federal government and five Gulf Coast for economic and property damage and medical claims.
They also do not states to settle all federal and state claims arising from the Incident.
In cover claims by individuals and businesses that opted out of the 2012 addition to settling claims with the states of Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, PSC settlements and or whose claims were excluded from them, Mississippi and Texas, BPXP also settled the claims made by more than including claims for recovery of losses allegedly resulting from the 2010 400 local government entities.
federal deepwater drilling moratoria and or the related permitting processes.
The proposed Consent Decree and Settlement Agreement On 5 October 2015, the United States lodged with the district court in also do not resolve private securities litigation pending in MDL 2185.
MDL 2179 a proposed Consent Decree between the United States, the Each of these outstanding proceedings and claims is discussed further Gulf states and BP to fully and finally resolve any and all natural resource below.
damages claims of the United States, the Gulf states and their respective natural resource trustees and all CWA penalty claims, and certain other On 5 October 2015, on the joint motion of BP and the five Gulf states, claims of the United States and the Gulf states.
Concurrently, BP entered the district court dismissed the five Gulf states claims with the into a definitive Settlement Agreement with the five Gulf states exception of claims for NRD and CWA penalties being addressed by the Settlement Agreement with respect to state claims for economic, proposed Consent Decree against BP.
The dismissal is without prejudice property and other losses.
The United States is expected to file a motion pending the courts entry of the Consent Decree, which is required for with the court to enter the Consent Decree as a final settlement around the Settlement Agreement with the Gulf states to become effective, at the end of March, which the court will then consider.
The time period for which time the dismissal would be converted into a dismissal with public comments on the Consent Decree ended on 4 December 2015. prejudice.
The proposed Consent Decree and the Settlement Agreement are OPA 90 Test Case Proceedings conditional upon each other and neither will become effective unless A number of lawsuits have been brought, primarily from business there is final court approval of the Consent Decree.
A further condition of claimants, under OPA 90 in relation to the 2010 federal deepwater drilling the agreements in principle was that local government entities execute moratoria.
Following the dismissal of one test case in January 2016, six releases to BPs satisfaction.
BP advised the court that it was satisfied test cases, consolidated with MDL 2179, will address certain OPA 90 with and has accepted releases received from the vast majority of local liability questions focusing on, among other issues, whether plaintiffs entities.
Accordingly, on 27 July 2015, the district court ordered BP to alleged losses tied to the moratoria and whether federal permit delays commence processing payments required under the releases and BP are compensable.
In December 2015, BP filed a motion to dismiss made such payments in accordance with the courts order.
plaintiffs claims arising from the moratoria or permit process, and 238 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Additional disclosures plaintiffs filed a motion asking the court to prevent BP from arguing that the revenue and expenses were recorded at different times.
On 23 April government action and or inaction following the oil spill is a superseding 2015, the PSC appealed this decision to the Fifth Circuit.
On cause with respect to some or all of the damages that plaintiffs claim.
18 December 2015, the PSC and BP entered into a joint stipulation to The motions are fully briefed, but the court has not yet issued a ruling.
stay this appeal pending resolution of certain issues in the district court in New Orleans.
On 8 January 2016, the Fifth Circuit granted the joint Halliburton and Transocean settlements.
stipulation and stayed the appeal for 120 days.
On 20 May 2015, BP and Transocean, and BP and Halliburton Energy Services Inc. Halliburton, entered into confidential settlement The effective date of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement agreements to resolve the final remaining disputes between these Agreement was 8 December 2014, and the final deadline for filing all parties stemming from the Incident.
claims other than those that fall into the Seafood Compensation Program was 8 June 2015.
Under the agreement with Transocean, BPXP and BPAPC agreed to indemnify Transocean for compensatory damages including natural On 8 May 2015, the Fifth Circuit upheld three awards to non-profit resource damages, to pay Transocean $125 million in compensation for entities under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, each of incurred legal fees, and discontinue attempts to recover as an additional which was premised on an official policy that typically treated grant insured under Transoceans liability policies.
Transocean agreed to monies and contributions to non-profit entities as revenue for purposes of indemnify BPXP and BPAPC for the personal and bodily injury claims of the settlements calculations.
BP argued that this policy was inconsistent Transocean employees, as well as for claims relating to any future with the language of the settlement agreement and would place the cleanup or removal of diesel or other pollutants stored on the Deepwater agreement in violation of United States law, but the Fifth Circuit upheld Horizon.
BPXP, BPAPC, and Transocean will mutually release all claims the policy and determined that the district court did not otherwise abuse between the companies.
its discretion in denying review of the three awards.
The court also held that requests for discretionary review of settlement claims by BP or BPXPs agreement with Halliburton resolves the remaining claims individual claimants under the Economic and Property Damages between the two companies and includes indemnities and the dismissal Settlement can be appealed by BP or individual claimants to the Fifth of all claims against each other.
Agreement for early natural resource restoration For more information about BPs current estimate of the total cost of the On 21 April 2011, BP announced an agreement with natural resource Economic and Property Damages Settlement, see Financial statements trustees for the US and five Gulf Coast states, providing for up to Note 2.
$1 billion to be spent on early restoration projects to address natural resource injuries resulting from the Incident.
To date, BP and the trustees PSC settlements Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement have reached agreement on a total of 65 early restoration projects that The Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement Medical Settlement are expected to cost approximately $877 million.
The remaining unpaid resolves certain medical claims by response workers and Gulf Coast balance of the $1 billion will be paid within 30 days after court approval of residents.
Under the Medical Settlement, class members release and the proposed Consent Decree.
dismiss their claims against BP covered by that settlement, except that class members do not release certain claims for later-manifested physical Under the proposed Consent Decree, Trustees would continue to conditions LMPCs.
implement these early restoration projects as part of the final settlement The Medical Settlement involves payments to qualifying class members of all US and state claims for natural resource damages.
based on a matrix for certain Specified Physical Conditions SPCs, as PSC settlements well as a 21-year Periodic Medical Consultation Program PMCP for qualifying class members.
The Medical Settlement also provides that PSC settlements Economic and Property Damages Settlement class members claiming LMPCs may pursue their claims through a Agreement mediation litigation process, but waive, among other things, the right to The Economic and Property Damages Settlement resolves certain seek punitive damages.
Consistent with its commitment to the Gulf, BP economic and property damage claims, and includes a $2.3 billion BP has also agreed to provide $105 million to the Gulf Region Health commitment to help resolve economic loss claims related to the Gulf Outreach Program to improve the availability, scope and quality of seafood industry which we refer to as the Seafood Compensation Fund healthcare in certain Gulf Coast communities.
This healthcare outreach and a $57-million fund to support advertising to promote Gulf Coast programme will be available to, and is intended to benefit, class tourism.
It also resolves property damage in certain areas along the Gulf members and other individuals in those communities.
BP has already Coast, as well as claims for additional payments under certain Master funded $93.7 million for projects sponsored by this programme.
Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the The district court approved the Medical Settlement in a final order and Incident.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement does not judgment on 11 January 2013.
The effective date was 12 February 2014 cover claims by individuals and businesses that opted out of the 2012 and the deadline for submitting claims was 12 February 2015.
The total PSC settlements and or whose claims were excluded from them, number of claims estimated by the Medical Claims Administrator is including claims for recovery of losses allegedly resulting from the 2010 approximately 37,200.
At year end, approximately 7,600 SPC claims, federal deepwater drilling moratoria and or the related permitting totalling approximately $17 million, have been approved for processes.
The Economic and Property Damages Settlement also does compensation.
In addition, approximately 22,000 claimants have been not resolve private securities litigation pending in MDL 2185. determined eligible for the PMCP.
The economic and property damages claims process is under court MDL 2185 and other securities-related litigation supervision through the settlement claims process established by the Since the Incident, shareholders have sued BP and various of its current Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
This provides that class and former officers and directors asserting shareholder derivative claims members release and dismiss their claims against BP not expressly and class and individual securities fraud claims.
Many of these lawsuits reserved by that agreement.
The Economic and Property Damages have been consolidated or co-ordinated in federal district court in Settlement also provided that, to the extent permitted by law, BP Houston MDL 2185. assigned to the PSC certain of its claims, rights and recoveries against Transocean and Halliburton for damages with protections such that Transocean and Halliburton cannot pass those damages through to BP.
The claims facility operating under the framework established by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement commenced operation in June 2012.
Following numerous court decisions on 31 March 2015, the court denied the PSCs motion seeking to alter or amend a revised policy, addressing the matching of revenue and expenses for business economic loss claims, which requires the matching of revenue with the expenses incurred by claimants to generate that revenue, even where Defined on page 256.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 239 Securities class action Other Deepwater Horizon oil spill related claims On 20 May 2014, the court denied plaintiffs motion to certify a proposed Other civil complaints class of ADS purchasers before the Deepwater Horizon explosion from On 26 August 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part BPs 8 November 2007 to 20 April 2010 and granted plaintiffs motions to motion to dismiss a master complaint raising claims for economic loss by certify a class of post-explosion ADS purchasers from 26 April 2010 to private plaintiffs, dismissing the plaintiffs state law claims and limiting 28 May 2010 and to amend their complaint to add one additional alleged the types of maritime law claims the plaintiffs may pursue, but also held misstatement.
The parties appealed the district courts class certification that certain classes of claimants may seek punitive damages under decisions and on 8 September 2015, the Fifth Circuit affirmed both of the general maritime law.
On 30 September 2011, the court granted in part district courts decisions.
On 26 October 2015, the Fifth Circuit denied BPs motion to dismiss a master complaint asserting personal injury the pre-explosion ADS purchasers motion for rehearing en banc.
On claims on behalf of persons exposed to crude oil or chemical dispersants, 25 January 2016, the pre-explosion ADS purchasers filed in the Supreme including state law claims, claims for punitive damages and claims for Court a petition for a writ of certiorari seeking review of the Fifth Circuits medical monitoring damages.
In each case the court did not, however, lift decision.
The trial of the securities fraud claims of the class of post an earlier stay on the underlying individual complaints raising those explosion ADS purchasers has been scheduled to commence on 5 July claims or otherwise apply its dismissal of the master complaints to those 2016. individual complaints.
Individual securities litigation On 4 September 2015, the district court in MDL 2179 issued an order From April 2012 to September 2015, 37 cases were filed in state and directing the clerk to docket no further joinders by plaintiffs in the two federal courts by pension funds and investment funds and advisers master complaints for private plaintiff economic and property damages against BP entities and several current and former officers and directors claims and for medical claims.
seeking damages for alleged losses those funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares and, in two cases, ADSs.
The funds On 14 September 2015, the district court granted BPs motion for assert claims under English law and, for plaintiffs purchasing ADSs, summary judgment and issued a judgment dismissing with prejudice the federal securities law, and seek damages for alleged losses that those Center for Biological Diversitys claim against BP under the Emergency funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares and or Planning and Community Right to Know Act.
This followed an earlier ADSs.
All the cases, with the exception of one case that has been unsuccessful appeal against the dismissal of the other action brought stayed, have been transferred to MDL 2185.
In August and September against BP by the Center for Biological Diversity.
On 8 October 2015, the 2015, plaintiffs filed or sought leave to file amended complaints in those Center for Biological Diversity filed a motion asking the district court to cases.
On 4 January 2016, the district court dismissed two of those reconsider its 14 September 2015 order.
That motion was denied on cases and some of the claims of a third case with leave to replead by 4 December 2015.
Plaintiffs in the two dismissed cases filed amended Non-US government lawsuits complaints on 19 January 2016.
On 1 May 2015, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district courts dismissal Canadian class action with prejudice of the claims brought in September 2010 by three On 15 November 2012, a plaintiff re-filed a statement of claim against BP Mexican states bordering the Gulf of Mexico Veracruz, Quintana Roo in Ontario, Canada, seeking to assert claims under Canadian law against and Tamaulipas against several BP entities.
The lawsuits allege that the BP on behalf of a class of Canadian residents who allegedly suffered Incident harmed their tourism, fishing and commercial shipping industries losses because of their purchase of BP ordinary shares and ADSs.
On resulting in, among other things, diminished tax revenue, damaged 14 August 2014, the Ontario Court of Appeal held that the claims made natural resources and the environment and caused the states to incur on behalf of Canadian residents who purchased BP ordinary shares and expenses in preparing a response to the Incident.
On 30 July 2015, the ADSs on exchanges outside of Canada should be litigated in those three Mexican states filed a petition for certiorari to the US Supreme countries, and granted leave for the plaintiff to amend the complaint to Court, which was denied on 30 November 2015. assert claims only on behalf of Canadian residents who purchased ADSs On 5 April 2011, the Mexican State of Yucatan submitted a claim to the on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
On 26 March 2015, the Supreme Court Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF alleging potential damage to its natural of Canada dismissed the plaintiffs appeal of this decision.
Plaintiff has resources and environment, and seeking to recover the cost of assessing not amended his complaint to assert claims on behalf of Canadian the alleged damage.
This was followed by a suit against BP which was residents who purchased ADSs on the Toronto Stock Exchange, and thus transferred to MDL 2179. there have been no further proceedings in the case.
On 27 March 2015, the plaintiff filed a complaint in Texas federal court asserting claims under On 19 April 2013, the Mexican federal government filed a civil action Canadian law against BP on behalf of a class of Canadian residents who against BP and others in MDL 2179.
The complaint seeks a allegedly suffered losses because of their purchase of BP ADSs on the determination that each defendant bears liability under OPA 90 for New York Stock Exchange.
That action was transferred to MDL 2185 and damages that include the costs of responding to the spill: natural was dismissed by the district court on 25 September 2015.
The time to resource damages allegedly recoverable by Mexico as an OPA 90 appeal that dismissal has expired.
trustee: and the net loss of taxes, royalties, fees or net profits.
Dividend-related proceedings On 18 October 2012, before a Mexican Federal District Court located in On 11 May 2015, the Fifth Circuit affirmed a district court decision in Mexico City, a class action complaint was filed against BPXP, BPAPC, June 2014 dismissing an action against BP p. l. c. for cancelling its and other BP subsidiaries.
The plaintiffs, consisting of fishermen and dividend payments in June 2010 on the grounds that the courts of other groups, are seeking, among other things, compensatory damages England were the more appropriate forum for the litigation.
This followed for the class members who allegedly suffered economic losses, as well earlier unsuccessful lawsuits against BP p. l. c. for the 2010 dividend as an order requiring BP to remediate environmental damage resulting payment cancellation.
from the Incident, to provide funding for the preservation of the environment and to conduct environmental impact studies in the Gulf of ERISA Mexico for the next 10 years.
After initial dismissal of the action, it was On 15 January 2015, following an earlier dismissal in the ERISA case reported in December 2015 that the action was reinstated after appeal, related to BP share funds in several employee benefit savings plans, the although BP has not been formally served with the action.
district court allowed the plaintiffs to amend their complaint to allege some of their proposed claims against certain defendants.
The district False Claims Act actions court certified that decision for appeal, and the Fifth Circuit accepted that On 17 December 2012, the court ordered unsealed one complaint that appeal on 20 May 2015.
Plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on had been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of 12 February 2015.
On 30 October 2015, the district court granted Louisiana by an individual under the Qui Tam whistle-blower provisions defendants partial motion to dismiss, dismissing some of the claims in of the False Claims Act FCA.
The complaint alleged that BP and another the amended complaint.
defendant had made false reports and certifications of the amount of oil released into the Gulf of Mexico following the Incident.
On 17 December 2012, the DoJ filed with the court a notice that the DoJ elected to decline 240 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Additional disclosures to intervene in the action.
On 31 January 2013, the complaint was Pending investigations and reports relating to the Deepwater transferred to MDL 2179.
Under the terms of the proposed Consent Horizon oil spill CSB investigation Decree, the United States and Gulf states would covenant not to pursue The US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB has claims against BP under the FCA.
indicated that it plans to release the final two volumes of its four-volume report on its investigation into the Incident concerning the role of the Criminal settlement with the DoJ and settlement with the SEC regulator in the oversight of the offshore industry and organizational and On 15 November 2012, BP announced that it reached agreement with cultural factors in March 2016. the US government, subject to court approval, to resolve all federal criminal charges and all claims by the SEC against BP arising from the Other legal proceedings Deepwater Horizon accident, oil spill and response.
FERC and CFTC matters On 29 January 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the US Louisiana accepted BPs pleas regarding the federal criminal charges, and Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC have been investigating sentenced BP in connection with the criminal plea agreement.
Pursuant several BP entities regarding trading in the next-day natural gas market at to that sentence, BP is required to pay $4 billion, including $1,256 million Houston Ship Channel in 2008.
On 5 August 2013, the FERC issued an in criminal fines, in instalments over five years.
Under the terms of the Order to Show Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalty directing BP to criminal plea agreement, a total of $2,394 million is required to be paid to respond to a FERC Enforcement Staff report alleging that BP manipulated the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation NFWF over five years.
In the next-day, fixed price gas market at Houston Ship Channel from midaddition, $350 million is required to be paid to the National Academy of September 2008 to 30 November 2008.
The FERC Enforcement Staff Sciences NAS over five years.
BP made its required payments that report proposed a civil penalty of $28 million and the surrender of were due in March and April 2013, January 2014, January 2015 and $800,000 of alleged profits.
The Administrative Law Judge ruled on January 2016 totalling $2.1 billion.
BP was required to serve a term of 13 August 2015 that BP manipulated the market by selling next-day, fixed five years probation and agree to certain equitable relief relating to BPs price natural gas at Houston Ship Channel in 2008 in order to suppress risk management processes in order to further enhance the safety of the Gas Daily index and benefit its financial position.
BP filed an appeal to drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
BP also agreed to maintain a the initial decision with the FERC on 14 September 2015 and the Office real-time drilling operations monitoring centre and to undertake several of Enforcement filed an opposing brief on 5 October 2015. initiatives with academia and regulators to develop new technologies Canadian Pipeline Nominations related to deepwater drilling safety.
The resolution also provided for the The CFTC is currently investigating certain practices relating to crude oil appointment of two monitors, a process safety monitor, to review and pipeline nominations procedures on Canadian pipelines.
On 17 November provide recommendations concerning BPXPs process safety and risk 2014, the CFTC Enforcement Staff notified BP that it intends to management procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and recommend an enforcement action naming certain parties, including an ethics monitor, to review and provide recommendations concerning several BP entities, alleging violations of the anti-fraud and false reporting BPs ethics and compliance programme.
BP has also agreed to retain an provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act in connection with these independent third-party auditor to review and report to the probation nomination procedures and related trades.
On 17 December 2014 BP officer, the DoJ and BP regarding BPXPs compliance with the key terms submitted a detailed defence responding to the allegations in the notice of the plea agreement.
Under the plea agreement, BP has also agreed to and challenging the CFTCs jurisdiction over the alleged conduct.
co-operate in ongoing criminal actions and investigations, including Investigations by the FERC and CFTC into BPs trading activities continue prosecutions of four former employees who have been separately to be conducted from time to time.
CSB matters In its resolution with the SEC, BP has resolved the SECs Deepwater In March 2007, the CSB issued a report on the March 2005 explosion and Horizon-related claims against the company under Sections 10 b and fire at the Texas City refinery incident.
The report contained 13 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the associated rules.
BP recommendations to the BP Texas City refinery and to the board of agreed to a civil penalty of $525 million, the last instalment of which was directors of BP.
To date, the CSB has accepted that all but one of BPs paid in August 2014, and consented to the entry of an injunction responses to its recommendations have been satisfactorily addressed.
prohibiting it from violating certain US securities laws and regulations.
BP and the CSB are continuing to discuss the remaining open US Environmental Protection Agency matters recommendation with the objective of the CSB agreeing to accept this as On 13 March 2014, BP, BPXP, and all other temporarily suspended BP satisfactorily addressed as well.
entities entered into an administrative agreement with the US OSHA matters Environmental Protection Agency EPA resolving all issues related to On 4 March 2014, BP and the US Occupational Safety and Health suspension or debarment arising from the Incident.
Under the terms and Administration OSHA reached agreement in relation to the remaining conditions of the administrative agreement, which will apply until 30 citations issued by OSHA to the Texas City refinery in 2009 related to 13 March 2019, BP may enter into new contracts or leases with the US the Process Safety Management PSM standard.
This followed an earlier government but must comply with a set of safety and operations, ethics settlement of approximately 400 Texas City citations.
The agreement and compliance and corporate governance requirements.
links the outcome of these citations to the ultimate outcome of certain US Department of Interior matters specified Toledo citations which address similar issues see below.
If the On 12 October 2011, the US Department of the Interior Bureau of Safety 31 July 2013 decision of the Administrative Law Judge in relation to the and Environmental Enforcement issued to BP, Transocean, and similar Toledo issues is ultimately upheld when a final decision is Halliburton Notification of Incidents of Noncompliance INCs.
The entered, OSHA has agreed to dismiss the remaining Texas City citations.
notification issued to BP is for a number of alleged regulatory violations If the 31 July 2013 decision is ultimately overturned, BP has agreed to concerning Macondo well operations.
On 7 December 2011, the Bureau pay a penalty not exceeding $1 million to resolve the remaining Texas of Safety and Environmental Enforcement issued to BP a second INC for City citations.
five alleged violations related to drilling and abandonment operations at On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products North the Macondo well.
BP filed an administrative appeal with respect to the America Inc. BP Products and BPHusky Refining LLC BP-Husky for first and second INCs and filed a joint stay of proceedings with the alleged violations of the PSM standard at the Toledo refinery, with Department of Interior with respect to both INCs.
Pursuant to the penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from an proposed Consent Decree with the United States see above, if entered inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery Process by the court, BP would withdraw its appeals within 15 days of the Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both BP Products and effective date of the Consent Decree, and the INCs would then be fully BP-Husky contested the citations.
The outcome of a pre-trial settlement and finally resolved.
of a number of the citations and a trial of the remainder was a reduction in the total penalty in respect of the citations from the original amount of approximately $3 million to $80,000.
The OSH Review Commission BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 241
