in the share price either way, the LSE may impose a temporary halt in Share prices and listings the trading of that companys shares in the order book to allow the Markets and market prices market to re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and a market-maker, via a member firm, The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock outside the electronic order book.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are In the US, BPs securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany.
NYSE in the form of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary the Depositary and transfer agent.
The Depositarys Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the principal office is 4 New York Plaza, Floor 12, New York, NY, 10004, US.
Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 Each ADS represents six ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on the NYSE.
for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose ADSs are evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, which primary listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific may be issued in either certificated or book entry form.
prices may be sent electronically to the exchange by any firm that is a member of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the highest and a principal.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares and ADSs for book.
When there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is the periods shown.
These are derived from the highest and lowest executed and automatically reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous intra-day sales prices as reported on the LSE and NYSE, respectively.
Dividends Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the BPs current policy is to pay interim dividends on a quarterly basis on its market prices for ADSs on the NYSE, are closely related due to ordinary shares.
arbitrage among the various markets, although differences may exist Its policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars fromtimetotime.
and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP ordinary shares will be paid in sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
The rate of On 16 February 2016, 893,653,858.5 ADSs equivalent to approximately exchange used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the 5,361,923,151 ordinary shares or some 29.01% of the total issued average of the market exchange rates in London over the four business share capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding and days prior to the sterling equivalent announcement date.
The directors were held by approximately 92,375 ADS holders.
Of these, about may choose to declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling 91,266 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys intention to change its registered holders of ADSs represents some 999,817 underlying current policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company on On 16 February 2016, there were approximately 262,938 ordinary ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in Financial shareholders.
Of these shareholders, around 1,577 had registered statements Note 9. addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,108,986 ordinary shares.
A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip Programme was approved by Since a number of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers shareholders in 2010 and was renewed for a further three years at the and other nominees, the number of holders in the US may not be 2015 AGM.
It enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to representative of the number of beneficial holders of their respective elect to receive dividends by way of new fully paid BP ordinary shares country of residence.
or ADSs in the case of ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the Scrip Programme is always subject to the directors decision to make the Scrip Programme offer available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors decide not to offer the Scrip Programme 248 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
