Additional disclosures In Trinidad & Tobago BP holds exploration and production licences and In Libya we partner with the Libyan Investment Authority LIA in an PSAs covering 1.8 million acres offshore of the east and north-east coast.
exploration and production-sharing agreement EPSA to explore acreage Facilities include 13 offshore platforms and two onshore processing in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins BP 85%.
Production comprises gas and associated liquids.
the National Oil Corporation with notices of force majeure in August 2014.
This is the result of continued civil unrest in Libya which has made BP also has a shareholding in Atlantic LNG ALNG, an LNG liquefication it impossible for BP to undertake its obligations under the EPSA safely plant that averages 39% across four LNG trains with a combined and securely.
As a result of this uncertainty, balances associated with capacity of 15 million tonnes per annum.
BP sells gas to each of the LNG Libya were written off in 2015, incurring an exploration write-off of $432 trains, supplying 100% of the gas for train 1, 50% for train 2, 75% for million and other charges of $166 million.
train 3 and around 67% of the gas for train 4.
All LNG from train 1 and most of the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to third parties in the US and In Egypt BP and its partners currently produce 10% of Egypts liquids Europe under long-term contracts.
BPs remaining equity LNG production and almost 30% of its gas production.
BPs total assets at entitlement from trains 2, 3 and 4 is marketed via BPs LNG marketing 31 December 2015 were $7,860 million, of which $1,739 million were and trading function to markets in the US, UK, Spain and South America.
current and $6,121 million were non-current.
The current assets include trade receivables and Egyptian pound-denominated cash.
Development of the Juniper project continues following its sanction in 2014.
The lift and cellar decks are now completed.
Fabrication of the In March BP announced a gas discovery in the North Damietta offshore jacket and subsea structures has commenced.
The first two wells have concession in the East Nile Delta at the Atoll-1 Deepwater exploration been drilled and work in preparation for drilling the remaining three is well BP 100%.
A Heads of Agreement was signed with the Egyptian complete.
government in November securing gas prices and key terms for the acceleration of Atoll development, with an estimated investment of Africa around $900 million for the development of phase 1 of the project.
BPs upstream activities in Africa are located in Angola, Algeria, Libya, BP signed final agreements for the development of two West Nile Egypt and Morocco.
Delta projects Taurus Libra and Giza Fayoum Raven BP 82.75%.
In Angola BP is present in eight major deepwater licences offshore and is Production from West Nile Delta is expected to start in 2017. operator in four of these, blocks 18 and 31 that are producing oil and The West Nile Delta project concessions amendment, approved by the blocks 19 and 24 that are in the exploration phase.
BP also has an equity Egyptian cabinet in December 2014, was ratified in March 2015 and interest in the Angola LNG plant BP 13.6%.
will be submitted to Parliament.
The amendments agree a new In April oil production started ahead of schedule at the Kizomba development plan along with associated start-up dates.
Satellites Phase-2 development in block 15 BP 26.67%, offshore In May BP signed a sales and purchase agreement with DEA Deutsche Angola.
The project is a subsea infrastructure development of the Erdoel AG under which BP increased its working interest in the West Kakocha, Bavuca and Mondo South fields.
Mondo South was the first Nile Delta project concessions from 60% in North Alexandria to begin production, with the remaining two also starting up in 2015.
Concession and 80% in West Mediterranean Deep Water Concession This deepwater project is operated by a subsidiary of ExxonMobil.
The transaction completed in Our Greater Plutonio Phase 3 project, in block 18, achieved first December.
production from the subsea well, Pu-PQ, in the Plutonio reservoir in In August BP announced a further gas discovery at the Nooros June six months ahead of schedule.
The project is a subsea tie-in to prospect BP 25%, located in the Abu Madi West concession in the the existing Greater Plutonio FPSO in a water depth of approximately Nile Delta in Egypt, operated by Eni.
BP is the operator with a 50% interest and Sonangol In October BP was awarded three new exploration blocks in the Sinopec International Limited has the remaining 50% interest.
Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company 2015 bid round.
The blocks are On 21 July Total announced that they started production from Dalia North El Tabya BP 100%, North Ras El Esh BP 50% and North El Phase 1A, a new development on its offshore operated block 17 Hammad BP 37.5%.
We and our partners have committed to BP 16.7%.
The project involves drilling seven infill wells tied back to investing over $200 million in the blocks across various phases.
In Morocco, BP has a non-operating interest in each of the Essaouira Katambi-1, the first pre-salt play drilled by BP in the Benguela basin in Offshore BP 45%, Foum Assaka Offshore BP 26.325% and block 24 discovered hydrocarbons.
Technical and commercial Tarhazoute Offshore BP 45% blocks in the Agadir Basin, offshore evaluation of this is ongoing.
The exploration periods run until 2017.
Pandora-1, the first pre-salt play drilled by BP in the Kwanza basin in Asia block 19 also discovered hydrocarbons but will require nearby developments to be potentially commercial.
Due to the uncertainty BP BP has activities in Western Indonesia, China, Azerbaijan, Oman, Abu wrote off the costs of the well and the associated block 19 licence Dhabi, India, Iraq and Russia.
In Western Indonesia, BP participates in LNG exports through our The Angola LNG plant BP 13.6%, which has been shut down for interest in Virginia Indonesia Company LLC VICO, the operator of Sangaplanned repairs since April 2014 is expected to fully restart in 2016.
Sanga PSA BP 38% supplying gas to the Bontang LNG plant in In December, several fields in Angola were subject to impairment Kalimantan.
Sanga-Sanga currently delivers around 13% of the total gas charges as a result of falling oil prices.
In total, $1.2 billion was feed to Bontang, Indonesias largest LNG export facility and one of the recognized, a significant portion of which relates to the Angola LNG worlds largest LNG plants.
It has a capacity of 22 million tonnes of LNG plant and is reflected in equity accounted earnings.
per annum and an output of more than 13 million tonnes.
In Algeria BP, Sonatrach and Statoil are partners in the In Salah In addition, BP participates in the Sanga-Sanga CBM PSA, where our BP 33.15% and In Amenas BP 45.89% projects that supply gas to the working interest increased from 38% to 50% in January following domestic and European markets.
BPs total assets in Algeria at withdrawal of Japan CBM Limited and Opicoil Energy at the end of 2014 31 December 2015 were $1,625 million $310 million current and and pending the Indonesian governments approval.
BP also exited the Tanjung IV PSA BP 44% in the Barito basin of Central The Bourarhat agreement expired in September 2014 and talks with Kalimantan in 2015, in accordance with the PSA and with government Sonatrach to negotiate new terms were not successful.
with them to close out the project were initiated in the first half of In China BP has a 30% equity stake in the 6.8 million tonnes per annum 2015 and are ongoing.
capacity Guangdong LNG regasification and pipeline project, making it In February 2016 the In Salah Southern Fields project start-up was the first foreign partner in Chinas LNG import business.
The project is the latest stage in the development of the In supplied under a long-term contract with Australias North West Shelf Salah Gas joint venture, which commenced production in 2004.
projects scope includes a new 500mmscfd gas dehydration central processing facility, brownfield modifications to existing processing In Azerbaijan, BP operates two PSAs,  ACG BP facilities, 150km of carbon steel export pipelines, 160km of infield 35.8% and Shah Deniz BP 28.83% and also holds other exploration flowlines and the drilling and tie in of 26 new wells.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 223
