Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Reports and accounts The directors are required to present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Companys auditors on the accounts and on those parts of the directors remuneration report that are capable of being audited are contained within the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Item 2: Directors annual remuneration report Under section 439 of the 2006 Act, the directors are required to present the directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, for the approval of shareholders by way of an advisory vote.
The directors remuneration report, the relevant pages of which can be found on pages 57 to 70 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, gives details of the directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 and sets out the way in which the Company will implement its policy on directors remuneration during 2016.
The Companys auditors, , have audited those parts of the directors remuneration report capable of being audited and their report may be found on pages 86 to 91 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The vote on the directors remuneration report is advisory in nature in that payments made or promised to directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that this resolution is not passed.
However, if the vote on the directors remuneration report is not passed, the directors remuneration policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the directors remuneration policy, which was approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, is available on the website at www.
co. uk or in hard copy on request from the Group Company Secretary.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 20 May 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 March 2016.
Items 4 to 9: Re-appointment of directors The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put all directors forward for re-appointment by shareholders on an annual basis.
The purpose of this requirement is to increase accountability to shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors of the Company will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association require that any director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the first annual general meeting notice of which is first given after their appointment.
Accordingly, Ralph Findlay and Earl Sibley will offer themselves for re-appointment on this basis.
The Code contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Alastair Lyons, Chris Browne and Ralph Findlay as non-executive directors, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during early 2016 that they continue to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
Alastair Lyons brings a broad range of business knowledge and skills to the Board, with a particular focus on mortgage lending and insurance industries.
Chris Browne provides a strong commercial and general management background in a consumer facing industry.
Ralph Findlay adds strong commercial, financial and general management expertise, again from a consumer facing industry.
Ian Tyler, non-executive Chairman, has considerable construction industry knowledge and international business experience.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-appointment of the directors to shareholders.
Biographical details of all the directors can be found on pages 44 to 45 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
Items 10 and 11: appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 10 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors,  LLP as the Companys auditors, for a further year.
 LLP were first appointed at the 2015 AGM.
Resolution 11 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 12: Authority to allot shares The authority given to your directors at last years Annual General Meeting under section 551 of the 2006 Act to allot shares expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, this resolution seeks to grant a new authority under section 551 to authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,374,300 and also gives the Board authority to allot, in addition to these shares, further of the Companys unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,748,601 in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing members by way of a rights issue with exclusions to deal with fractional entitlements to shares and overseas shareholders to whom the rights issue cannot be made due to legal and practical problems.
This is in accordance with the latest institutional guidelines published by the Investment Association.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 22,374,300 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The amount of 44,748,601 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 1 March 2016.
The Board has no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 125 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 13: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required as a result of the implementation in 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings under the 2006 Act to 21 days.
The Company will be able to continue to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice as long as shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, where it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
It is confirmed that ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where the shorter notice period will be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Item 14: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 14 seeks authority for the directors to issue equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act in the Company for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply.
Other than in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive offers concerning equity securities, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to the issue of shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,359,504 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas members.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by resolution 14 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 15: Authority to purchase own shares This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 13,438,018 of its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 1 March 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and Investment Association guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but would like to have the flexibility of considering such purchases in the future.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses would be 50 pence, being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2017.
As at 1 March 2016 there were options over 719,176 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.54% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 0.59% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
126 | Annual report and accounts | Supplementary information
