Shareholder information in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be paid automatically owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 53 and other matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Our strategy Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, on page 13 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 219. state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in company per ADS for the past five years.
respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total Taxation of dividends 2011 UK pence 26.02 25.68 25.90 26.82 104.42 UK taxation US cents 42 42 42 42 168 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from 2012 UK pence 30.57 30.90 30.10 33.53 125.10 dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
US cents 48 48 48 54 198 A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or 2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.40 trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not US cents 54 54 54 57 219 be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is 2014 UK pence 34.24 34.84 35.76 38.26 143.10 subject to UK tax but until 5 April 2016, is entitled to a tax credit on cash US cents 57 58.5 58.5 60 234 dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one- 2015 UK pence 40.00 39.18 39.29 39.81 158.28 ninth of the cash dividend.
US cents 60 60 60 60 240 US federal income taxation a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are provided in Financial statements Note 9.
A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income UK foreign exchange controls on dividends tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder that There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the preferential rate, provided that the holder has a holding period in the companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions or those beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding sanctions adopted by the UK government which implement resolutions period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the of the Security Council of the United Nations.
ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in Shareholder taxation information income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received It does not apply, however, inter alia to members of special classes of from other US corporations.
US ADS holders should consult their own tax holders some of which may be subject to other rules, including: taxadvisor regarding the US tax treatment of the dividend fee in respect of exempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in securities, traders in dividends.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the US and securities that elect a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities generally will be passive category income or, in the case of certain US holdings, investors liable for alternative minimum tax, holders that, holders, general category income, each of which is treated separately directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock, for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax credit limitation.
holders that hold the shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK conversion transaction, holders that purchase or sell the shares or ADSs withholding tax.
Accordingly, the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax purposes, or holders US holder to a foreign tax credit.
whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
In addition, if a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar rate on below.
the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, regardless of whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
Generally, any A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is includible in domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and preferential tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign of the trust.
This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, published return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all as shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty.
laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section further assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the made by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK taxation eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 249
