The US Lower 48 onshore business has significant activities across six 2010.
The decision will result in an increase in BPs production tax and states producing natural gas, oil, NGLs and condensate.
It is organized royalty liabilities to the State of Alaska, retroactively from 2009 onwards.
into five, geographic business units, and has a resource base that is In Canada, BP is currently focused on oil sands development using in-situ mainly in unconventional reservoirs tight gas, shale gas and coalbed steam-assisted gravity drainage SAGD technology, which uses the methane.
This resource spans 5.4 million gross developed acres injection of steam into the reservoir to warm the bitumen so that it can 3.1 million net and has approximately 9,000 operated gross wells, with flow to the surface through producing wells.
We hold interests in three daily net production around 280mboe d. oil sands leases through the Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide Grace Our US Lower 48 onshore business began operating as a separate partnerships and the Pike Oil Sands joint operation.
In addition, we business in 2015.
While remaining part of our Upstream segment, it has have significant offshore exploration interests in the Canadian Beaufort its own governance, processes and systems and is designed to increase Sea, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland.
competitive performance through swift decision making and innovation, while maintaining BPs commitment to safe, reliable and compliant Following the start of steam generation at the Sunrise Phase 1 in-situ operations.
oil sands project in Alberta BP 50% in December 2014, oil production began in March.
Production is expected to ramp-up to full capacity of In December the US Lower 48 onshore business expanded its San 60,000 barrels per day gross in 2017.
Juan basin operations by acquiring all of Devon Energys assets in the BP completed processing seismic data acquired offshore Nova Scotia region.
The bulk of the acquired assets, which span northern New at the end of 2015.
We and our partners Hess 40% and Woodside Mexico and southern Colorado, consist of Devons operated interest in 20% are planning to choose potential exploration well locations in the Northeast Blanco Unit.
2016 and, pending regulatory approval, begin the first exploration For further information on the use of hydraulic fracturing in our shale gas drilling programme.
BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and In partnership with Statoil and ExxonMobil, BP was a successful bidder related transportation assets are included in the Downstream segment.
for exploration licences in the Flemish Pass Basin offshore In Alaska BP operated nine North Slope oilfields in the Greater Prudhoe Newfoundland.
Statoil will operate all three licences, and ExxonMobil Bay area at the end of 2015.
Our focus continues to be safe and reliable will participate in two licences as a partner.
The licences have an operations, renewing BPs Alaska North Slope infrastructure and effective date of 15 January 2016.
BP has a 33% share in the minimizing oil production decline.
Infrastructure renewal activities in 2015 NL15-01-06 and NL15-01-07 licences and a 50% share in the included fire and gas system upgrades, safety system upgrades, pipeline NL15-01-08 licence.
renewal and facility siting projects.
Production decline is being managed through annual drilling programmes and rig and non-rig well work South America programmes.
BP also owns significant interests in six producing fields BP has upstream activities in Brazil and Trinidad & Tobago, as well as in operated by others, as well as significant non-operating interests in the Argentina, Bolivia, and Chile through an equity-accounted joint venture.
Point Thomson development project and the Liberty prospect.
Development of the Point Thomson production facility continued in In Brazil BP has interests in 21 exploration concessions across five 2015.
Construction of field infrastructure and fabrication of the four basins.
main process modules is progressing on schedule.
The project is on track to commence production in early 2016.
BP holds a 32% working We continued appraisal of the Itaipu discovery, located in the interest in the field and ExxonMobil is the operator.
deepwater sector of the Campos basin offshore Brazil in block BP continued to work jointly with ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and the BM-C-32, in line with the appraisal plan approved by the Brazilian State of Alaska throughout 2015 to advance the Alaska LNG project.
National Petroleum Agency ANP in 2015.
In October BP and its The project concept includes a North Slope gas treatment plant, an partner Anadarko submitted an application to ANP to transfer approximately 800-mile pipeline to tidewater and a three-train operatorship from BP to Anadarko.
This will achieve significant liquefaction facility, with an estimated capacity of 3bcf d up to efficiencies in progressing the development of this and an adjacent 20 million tonnes per annum.
In June 2014 the Alaska LNG coblock, BM-C-30 Wahoo, where Anadarko is the operator.
Also in venturers, including the State of Alaska, executed commercial October, an extension request was filed with the ANP for three agreements and launched the pre-front-end engineering and design additional years for each of Itaipu and Wahoo to progress appraisal pre-FEED phase of the project, which is expected to extend through activities.
2016 with a gross spend of more than $500 million.
In March, the In May we received final approval from ANP for the previously signed Federal Energy Regulatory Commission issued a Notice of Intent to agreement with Petroleo Brasileiro S. A. Petrobras to farm in to five prepare an environmental impact statement for the Alaska LNG deepwater exploration blocks in Potiguar basin.
The blocks are located in project.
In May 2015 the US Department of Energy conditionally 2 the Brazilian equatorial margin and cover an area of 3,837km.
The Pitu-2 authorized the export of Alaska LNG to non-Free Trade Agreement well was completed during the year and proved the presence of oil.
In October and November the co-venturers received After disappointing exploration results in October, BP and Petrobras approval from the Alaska Oil & Gas Conservation Commission for gas submitted an application to ANP to relinquish their interest in offtake from the Prudhoe Bay and Point Thomson fields respectively BM-CE-2 block in Ceara basin.
sufficient to underpin gas export.
A decision point for progressing to During the year we progressed the preparatory activities for drilling the front-end engineering and design FEED phase of the project will exploration wells in the Foz fide Amazonas and Barrerinhas blocks be reached in 2017 after completion of the pre-FEED phase.
First acquired in May 2013. commercial gas is planned between 2023 and 2025.
We continued discussions with the operators of blocks BM-C-35 and In December, a number of Alaska assets were subject to impairment BC-2, Petrobras and Total respectively, to define the optimal appraisal charges totalling $194 million, primarily as a result of the lower price of these blocks in the South Campos basin.
In May we notified the Uruguayan oil and gas regulator, ANCAP, that BP owns a 49% interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System TAPS.
TAPS interpretation of seismic data acquired over BP-operated blocks in transports crude oil from Prudhoe Bay on the Alaska North Slope to the port Uruguay had not resulted in identification of viable prospects.
As a result of Valdez in south-east Alaska.
In April 2012 the two non-controlling owners we relinquished our 100% interest in all the blocks in Uruguay and of TAPS, Koch 3.08% and Unocal 1.37% gave notice to BP, ExxonMobil ANCAP approved this in February 2016.
21.1% and ConocoPhillips 29.1% of their intention to withdraw as owners of TAPS.
The transfer of Kochs interest to the remaining owners In Argentina, Bolivia and Chile BP conducts activity through Pan American was completed in 2012.
The remaining owners and Unocal have not yet Energy LLC PAE, an equity-accounted joint venture with Bridas reached agreement regarding the terms for the transfer of Unocals interest Corporation, in which BP has a 60% interest.
In September 2015 PAE in TAPS and related litigation will continue in 2016. sold its 50% interest in the Coiron licence in Chile.
In addition, PAE has In November 2015, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC acquired a 60% working interest in the Hokchi production-sharing issued an order addressing the TAPS tariff rate filings for years 2009 and agreement PSA in Mexico, effective from January 2016.
222 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
