Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The board of directors and shareholders of BP p. l. c. We have audited BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on criteria established in the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
BP p. l. c. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements report on internal control on page 244.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained inall material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receiptsand expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, BP p. l. c. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2015, based on the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. as of 31 December 2015 and 2014, and the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2015, and our report dated 4 March 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
s Ernst & Young LLP London, United Kingdom 4 March 2016 Consent of independent registered public accounting firm We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated 4 March 2016, with respect to the group financial statements of BP p. l. c. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of BP p. l. c. included in this Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2015 in the following Registration Statements: Registration Statement on Form F-3 File Nos.
333-208478 and 333-208478-01 of BP Capital Markets p. l. c. and BP p. l. c. : and Registration Statements on Form S-8 File Nos.
The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
102 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
