Additional disclosures The Maritime Transportation Security Act, the DOT Hazardous 443 2009.
From 2020 onwards, the European passenger fleet Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard emissions target is 95 grams of CO per kilometre.
This target will be 2 regulations impose security compliance regulations on around 15 BP achieved by manufacturing fuel efficient vehicles and vehicles using facilities.
alternative, low carbon fuels such as hydrogen and electricity.
In OPA 90 is implemented through regulations issued by the EPA, the addition, vehicle emission test cycles and vehicle type approval US Coast Guard, the DOT, OSHA, the Bureau of Safety and procedures are being updated to improve accuracy of emission and Environmental Enforcement and various states.
Alaska and the West efficiency measurements.
Consequently, product mix and overall levels Coast states currently have the most demanding state requirements.
of demand will be impacted.
The Outer Continental Shelf Land Act and other statutes give the European vehicle CO emission regulations also impact the fuel 2 Department of Interior DOI and the Bureau of Land Management efficiency of vans.
By 2020, the EU fleet of newly registered vans must BLM authority to regulate operations and air emissions on offshore meet a target of 147 grams of CO per kilometre, which is 19% below 2 and onshore operations on federal lands subject to DOI authority.
stricter regulations on operational practices, equipment and testing The EU Registration, Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of have been imposed on our operations in the Gulf of Mexico and Chemicals REACH Regulation requires registration of chemical elsewhere following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
substances manufactured in or imported into the EU, together with the submission of relevant hazard and risk data.
REACH affects our European Union refining, petrochemicals, exploration and production, biofuels, In October 2014, the European Council agreed on new climate and lubricants and other manufacturing or trading import operations.
In energy targets for the period up to 2030.
Specifically, Member States accordance with the required phase-in timetable, BP completed have agreed to a 40% reduction in GHG emissions below 1990 levels registration of all substances in tonnage bands equal to or greater than and to a 27% share of renewable energy in final energy consumption.
100 tonnes per annum legal entity, and is in the process of preparing Specific EU legislation and agreements required to achieve these goals registration dossiers for substances manufactured or imported in are not yet in place.
amounts in the range 1-100 tonnes per annum legal entity that are The 2008 EU Climate and Energy Package is expected to remain in currently due to be submitted before 31 May 2018 or checking that BP place until 2020 and includes an updated EU Emissions Trading imports are covered by the registrations of non-EU suppliers only System EU ETS Directive see Greenhouse gas regulation below, the representatives.
BP continues to maintain compliance by submitting EU Fuel Quality Directive and the Renewable Energy Directive.
registrations to cover new manufactured and imported substances, The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing of and to update previously submitted registrations as required.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions in the substances registered previously, including substances supplied to us life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy and tighter environmental by third parties for our use, are now subject to evaluation and review fuel quality standards for petrol and diesel.
for potential authorization or restriction procedures, and possible The Renewable Energy Directive requires Member States to have 10% banning, by the European Chemicals Agency and EU Member State by energy content of final transportation fuel to be derived from authorities.
renewable energy, such as biofuels and renewable electricity.
This In addition, the EU implemented the UNs Globally Harmonized target must be met by the end of 2020.
System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals GHS through the The Energy Efficiency Directive EED was adopted in 2012.
It requires Classification Labelling and Packaging CLP Regulation.
This requires EU Member States to implement an indicative 2020 energy saving BP to reassess the hazards of all our chemicals and products against target and apply a framework of measures as part of a national energy the new GHS criteria as adopted or modified by the EU and to update efficiency programme, including mandatory industrial energy efficiency warning labels and safety data sheets accordingly.
This directive has been implemented in the UK by the Energy the CLP Regulation applies in full to mixtures e. g. lubricants that are Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations 2014, which affects our placed on the market.
A separate EU regulation on export and import offshore and onshore assets.
The ISO50001 standard is being of hazardous chemicals requires warning labels and safety data sheets implemented by organizations in some EU states to meet some accompanying EU exports to be compliant with relevant CLP and elements of the Energy Efficiency Directive.
REACH requirements unless this conflicts with requirements in the The Industrial Emissions Directive IED 2010 provides the framework importing country and, as far as practicable, in the official or one or for granting permits for major industrial sites.
It lays down rules on more principal languages of the intended area of use.
Safety data integrated prevention and control of air, water and soil pollution arising sheets for the EU market have been updated to include both REACH from industrial activities.
This may result in requirements for BP to and CLP information.
further reduce its emissions, particularly its air and water emissions.
As The EU Offshore Safety Directive was adopted in 2013.
Its purpose is part of the IED framework, additional emission limit values are to introduce a harmonized regime aimed at reducing the potential informed by the sector specific and cross-sector Best Available environmental, health and safety impacts of the offshore oil and gas Technology BAT Conclusions, such as the BAT Conclusions for the industry throughout EU waters.
The Directive has been implemented in refining sector and for combustion.
the UK primarily through the Offshore Installations Offshore Safety The National Emission Ceiling Directive 2001 is currently being revised Directive Safety Case etc.
Regulations 2015. and subsequent source-control measures by Member States may be The implementation of the Water Framework Directive 2000 and the required to meet national emissions targets.
These may result in Environmental Quality Standards Directive 2008 may mean that BP has further emission reduction requirements.
to take further steps to manage freshwater withdrawals and The EU regulation on ozone depleting substances ODS 2009 requires discharges from its EU operations.
BP to reduce the use of ODS and phase out use of certain ODSs.
BP Regulations governing the discharge of treated water have also been continues to replace ODS in refrigerants and or equipment in the EU developed in countries outside of the US and EU.
This includes and elsewhere, in accordance with the Montreal Protocol and related regulations in Trinidad and Angola.
In Trinidad, BP has been working with legislation.
In addition, the EU regulation on fluorinated greenhouse the regulators to apply water discharge rules arising from the Certificate gases with high global warming potential the F-gas Regulations came of Environmental Clearance CEC Regulations 2001, and associated into force on 1 January 2015.
The F-gas Regulations require a phaseWater Pollution Rules 2007.
In Angola, BP has been upgrading produced out of certain hydrofluorocarbons, based on global warming potential.
water treatment systems to meet revised Oil in Water limits for produced European regulations also establish passenger car performance water discharge under Executive Decree ED 97-14 superseded ED 12 05 standards for CO tailpipe emissions European Regulation EC No 2 on 1 January 2016.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 235
