Shareholder information Holders on record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a companys accounting reference date.
All general meetings shall be held beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their at a time and place in England determined by the directors.
If any behalf at any shareholders meeting, provided that a duly completed shareholders meeting is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time proxy form is received not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as and place of the adjourned meeting may be given in any lawful manner, the directors may determine before the time of the meeting or including electronically.
Powers exist for action to be taken either before adjourned meeting or, where the poll is to be taken after the date of the or at the meeting by authorized officers to ensure its orderly conduct and meeting, not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the directors safety of those attending.
may determine before the time of the poll.
Limitations on voting and shareholding Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and vote at There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the approved companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. of them as proxies in respect of foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such proxy may company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are entitled to shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will subject to EU economic sanctions or those sanctions adopted by the UK vote the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with government which implement resolutions of the Security Council of the their instructions.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Disclosure of interests in shares Corporations who are members of the company may appoint one or The Act permits a public company to give notice to any person whom more persons to act as their representative or representatives at any the company believes to be or, at any time during the three years prior to shareholders meeting provided that the company may require a the issue of the notice, to have been interested in its voting shares corporate representative to produce a certified copy of the resolution requiring them to disclose certain information with respect to those appointing them before they are permitted to exercise their powers.
Failure to supply the information required may lead to Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing and disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on their passing of resolutions, of which there are two types: ordinary or special.
transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of those shares and any new shares in the company issued in respect of those An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares.
In this context the term interest is widely defined and will votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of not less than three including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
quarters of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
Any AGM requires 21 clear days notice.
The notice period for any other Called-up share capital general meeting is 14 clear days subject to the company obtaining Details of the allotted, called-up and fully-paid share capital at annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21 clear day notice period 31 December 2015 are set out in Financial statements Note 30.
AGM on 16 April 2015, authorization was given to the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to $3,040 million.
Liquidation rights: redemption provisions Authority was also given to the directors to allot shares for cash and to In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and dispose of treasury shares, other than by way of rights issue, up to a applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of maximum of $228 million, without having to offer such shares to existing secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled shareholders.
These authorities were given for the period until the next to the sum of 1 the capital paid up on such shares plus, 2 accrued and AGM in 2016 or 16 July 2016, whichever is the earlier.
These authorities unpaid dividends and 3 a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the are renewed annually at the AGM.
capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during Purchases of equity securities by the issuer the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided and affiliated purchasers pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
At the AGM on 16 April 2015, authorization was given to the company to Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the repurchase up to 1.8 billion ordinary shares for the period until the next holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such AGM in 2016 or 16 July 2016, being the latest dates by which an AGM preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions must be held for that year.
This authorization is renewed annually at the as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any AGM.
No ordinary shares were repurchased during 2015.
The following such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue table provides details of ordinary share purchases made by the shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs and other purchases of Variation of rights ordinary shares and ADSs made to satisfy the requirements of certain employee share-based payment plans.
The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption Number of shares of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the purchased shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions by ESOPs or for Average price of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting certain employee paid per share a apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting to change the share-based plans $ rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of the shares of 2015 that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to the ordinary January 5 January 30 36,600,000 6.19 shares is one third or more of the shares of that class.
February 2 to February 5 6,960,000 6.50 September 21 1,132,000 5.22 Shareholders meetings and notices October 29 2,800,000 5.99 Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the November 3 November 4 2,700,000 5.94 UK to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
Holders of December 15 950,000 5.16 BP ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the deposit 2016 agreement relating to BP ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices are January 1 January 31 Nil described on page 252 under the heading Voting rights.
February 1 to February 16 Nil Under the Act, the AGM of shareholders must be held once every year, a All share purchases were of ordinary shares of 25 cents each and or ADSs each representing within each six month period beginning with the day following the six ordinary shares and were on open market transactions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 253
