Directors remuneration report The Chairmans Statement which forms part of the Directors Remuneration Report is located on pages 22-23.
Please refer to this for an overview from Professor Dame Ann Dowling on the performance and pay outcomes for 2015.
2015 annual report on remuneration 77 Executive directors Highlights of the year 78 Salary and benefits Strong safety and operational performance in a difficult 78 Annual bonus environment 79 Deferred bonus Responded early and decisively to lower oil price environment.
80 Performance shares 82 Pension Excellent safety standards with continuous improvement over the 83 Remuneration committee past three years, leading to improvements in reliability and operations.
84 Shareholder engagement Strong operating cash flow and underlying replacement cost profit 84 External appointments relative to plan.
84 Historical data and statistics 85 Directors shareholdings Net investment organic managed aggressively to reflect lower for 88 Remuneration policy table longer oil price environment.
90 Non-executive directors Executive directors pay outcomes reflect strong operating performance relative to plan.
Alignment between executives and shareholders with the majority of executive director remuneration paid in equity with lengthy retention requirements.
Remuneration policy Throughout this report, the word policy refers to the directors that malus and clawback provisions exist in all terms save the cash element of the annual bonus.
It will consider this on the next occasion that remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the companys annual general meeting on 10 April 2014.
As shown below, BPs strategy is it reviews the remuneration policy.
Separate sections of this report contain information pertaining to executive and non-executive directors.
The reflected in the measures adopted by the committee in 2016 for the executive directors and the metrics and targets are designed to assess remuneration of executive directors is set by the remuneration committee under delegated powers from the board.
The committee makes a performance against that strategy.
Net investment organic has been removed as a measure for 2016.
The same measures and targets are used recommendation to the board for the remuneration of the chairman.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the board based on a for the wider management.
A summary of the policy is located on pages 88-89 and the full policy is available at bp.
com remuneration and is set out recommendation from the chairman, the group chief executive and the company secretary.
in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013.
The committee has again reviewed the terms of the executive directors remuneration and confirmed Strategic priorities Focus on Source high-value Safe, reliable and future upstream Advanced compliant operations growth assets technology Clear priorities Quality portfolio Distinctive capabilities Proven Strong Competitive Disciplined Build high-quality expertise relationships project financial downstream businesses execution choices Group key performance indicator.
2016 bonus and equity plans supporting BPs strategic priorities Short term: annual bonus Long term: performance share plan Safety and operational risk Value Relative total shareholder return Loss of primary containment Operating cash flow Cumulative operating cash flow Strategic imperatives: Underlying replacement cost profit Process safety tier 1 events Relative reserves replacement ratio Recordable injury frequency Corporate and functional costs Safety and operational risk Major project delivery Major project delivery Creating long-term shareholder value 76 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
