strategic report our We manufacture, market and sell both Britvic and PepsiCo brands in GB and Ireland, supported by dedicated commercial teams in both business countries.
In France, we manufacture, market and sell our own category-leading brands, as well as supplying private label juice and syrups.
On 30 September, we completed the acquisition of Brazilian soft drinks company Ebba, which manufactures and sells the two model leading liquid dilutable brands, Maguary and Dafruta, and has a growing presence in the ready to drink nectar category.
Britvic sets itself apart from its Internationally, we work primarily in partnership with local companies through franchise, distribution or licensing arrangements to exploit the competitors by our unrivalled global potential of our kids, family and adult brands.
In the USA, we combination of market leading brands have agreements with a number of Pepsi bottlers and in India we are partnering with the Narang Group.
We also export Britvic products and track record in innovation, our around the world and are a significant player in the travel sector.
expert knowledge of the soft drinks Our brands and innovations are built on the quality of our insight and market, longstanding and sustainable understanding of the soft drinks markets in which we operate.
We have a strong track record in innovation and our dedicated technical relationships with our partners, and consumer innovation teams are at the forefront of identifying including PepsiCo, and a highly consumer trends and new technologies to ensure that we deliver products that meet consumers evolving needs.
Our marketing teams talented and committed workforce.
ensure that our brands are front of mind for our consumers.
We are committed to building sustainable relationships with all our partners, from suppliers of raw materials through to the customers who sell our brands.
We have developed an operating model which is based on the principles of simplicity, focus and accountability, to ensure we are cost-efficient and effective and can invest in the growth opportunities.
All of this allows us to deliver value to our shareholders, our customers and partners, the consumers who buy our brands, the communities in which we operate and to our employees.
GB, IRELAND AND FRANCE BRITVIC Manufacturing Raw materials full goods Marketing Distribution Customers Consumers INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE BRITVIC PARTNER ACTIVITIES Manufacturing Transport to Manufacturing compound Marketing international partner Raw materials full goods Distribution Customers Consumers INTERNATIONAL EXPORT BRITVIC PARTNER ACTIVITIES Manufacturing Export to Raw materials Marketing Consumers full goods international partner Distribution Customers 8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015
