Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts Revenue 1 Accounting policies Revenue and other income is included in the profit and loss account Basis of accounting when all contractual or other applicable conditions for recognition As set out in note 8, the financial statements of the Parent Company have been met.
Allowances are made for bad and doubtful debts, have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard as appropriate.
Taxation In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International deferred taxation.
Income tax charges, where applicable, are calculated Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, but makes on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act sheet date.
2006 and where advantage of certain disclosure exemptions available under FRS 101 have been taken, including those relating to: Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected a cash flow statement and related notes: to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax comparative period reconciliations: liability is settled.
As required under IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly-owned subsidiaries: Investments in Group companies disclosures in respect of capital management: Investments in Group companies are stated at cost, together with the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: and subsequent capital contributions, less provisions for any impairment in disclosures in respect of the compensation of key value, where appropriate.
Dividends As the consolidated financial statements of the Group include Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in under FRS 101 available in respect of disclosures under IFRS 2 Sharewhich the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders based Payment related to Group-settled share-based payments.
while the interim dividend distributions are recognised in the period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
In the transition from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS 1 First-time Adoption Similarly, dividend income is recognised at the same time as the paying of International Financial Reporting Standards, whilst ensuring that company recognises the liability to pay a dividend.
its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101.
Repurchase of share capital There were no material measurement or recognition adjustments to previously reported amounts as a result of applying FRS 101.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction convention except as described in the accounting policy below on from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares financial instruments.
purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
The preparation of the financial statements requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts Related parties of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 101 contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key from disclosing transactions with related parties that are wholly-owned estimates and assumptions are set out in the accounting policies below, subsidiaries of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Group.
together with the related notes to the accounts.
Financial instruments As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Financial guarantees are initially recorded at fair value, and profit and loss of the Company has not been presented in these subsequently carried at this fair value less accumulated amortisation.
Share-based payments The Company is a public limited company which is listed on the The Company has equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
London Stock Exchange and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the Foreign currencies equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions arising period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually in currencies other than sterling are translated at the rate of exchange vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder ruling on the date of the transaction.
Assets and liabilities expressed in returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas currencies other than sterling are translated at rates of exchange ruling earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation of at the end of the financial year.
All exchange differences are taken to awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
the profit and loss account in the year.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except where vesting is dependent on market conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is used.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
216 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
