Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the Group financial statements is unmodified We have audited the Group financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the accounts.
These are crossreferenced from the Group financial statements and identified as audited.
2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the Group financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows: Provisions and contingent liabilities in respect of litigations Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 135 accounting policy note and pages 178, 192201 financial disclosures The risk: The Group is subject to claims and class actions, which could have a significant impact on the Groups results if the potential exposures were to materialise.
Management applies significant judgement when considering whether, and how much, to provide for the potential exposure of each litigation.
We focused on this area given the number and magnitude of potential exposures across the Group, and the complexity and judgement necessary to determine whether to provide for or disclose certain exposures.
Our response: Our procedures included an assessment of the processes and controls over litigations operated by Management at a Group, regional and local level.
We met quarterly with the Groups in-house legal counsel including after the year end to discuss the nature of ongoing claims, and to validate the latest status and accounting and disclosure implications.
Our in-scope component audit teams reported to us on the status of open claims, and helped us to validate completeness of the matters discussed by us at a Group level.
We also obtained formal confirmations from the Groups external counsel for significant litigation matters to ensure completeness of provisioning and disclosure.
We assessed relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the court authorities alongside legal opinion from external lawyers to challenge the basis used for the provisions recorded or disclosures made by Management.
Where provisions were not required, we also considered the adequacy and completeness of the Groups disclosures in note 30 made in relation to contingent liabilities.
IT system change TaO Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report The risk: The Group has continued to implement its revised Operating Model and single IT operating system in a number of end markets over the course of the year.
An IT migration project of this type presents inherent risks including the loss of integrity of key financial data being migrated, and the breakdown in operation or monitoring of IT dependent controls within critical business processes purchase to pay, order to cash, and record to report, which could lead to financial errors or misstatements and inaccurate financial reporting.
Our response: Our procedures included use of our IT specialists to assess and test the General IT control environment of the single IT operating system, including IT access and segregation of duties, as well as IT dependent controls within critical business processes.
In relation to the system migration itself, our IT specialists assessed and tested the controls specifically established over the implementation process and migration of key financial data from the legacy to the new single operating system, and reviewed the work of Internal Audit and other external specialists to corroborate our findings.
Additionally, where system migration occurred during 2015, our end market component audit teams performed independent validation of the data migration and reconciliation between legacy systems and the single IT operating system.
Global taxation exposures Refer to page 59 Audit Committee Report, page 133 accounting policy note and pages 145146, 160161, 201202 financial disclosures The risk: The Group operates in multiple jurisdictions governed by national tax laws and regulations and is required to estimate the tax effect of cross-border transactions including transfer pricing arrangements.
Where the precise impact of these laws and regulations on indirect taxes and the tax payable on profits is unclear, the Group seeks to make reasonable estimates to determine the tax charge arising.
The calculation of the amount of tax receivable or payable, in addition to any specific taxation provisions that are required, is often complex, and requires a significant level of expertise and judgement.
Our response: Our audit procedures included the use of our own international and local tax specialists to assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence with the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and challenge the assumptions used to determine tax provisions based on our knowledge and experience of the application of the international and local legislation by the relevant authorities and courts.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 121
