other information glossary Key performance indicators Others Volume is defined as number of litres sold, excluding factored Where appropriate, comparisons are quoted using constant brands sold by Counterpoint in Ireland.
No volume is recorded exchange rates.
Constant currency change removes the impact of in respect of international concentrate sales.
exchange rate movements during the period by retranslating prior year foreign currency denominated results of the group at current ARP is defined as average revenue per litre sold, excluding period exchange rates to aid comparability.
factored brands and concentrate sales.
All numbers quoted are pre-exceptional and other items, unless Revenue is defined as sales achieved by the group net of price otherwise stated.
promotional investment and retailer discounts.
Brand contribution is defined as revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Such costs include brand specific advertising and promotion costs, raw materials, and marginal production and distribution costs.
Brand contribution margin is a percentage measure calculated as brand contribution, divided by revenue.
Each business units performance is reported down to the brand contribution level.
EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items and amortisation.
Only amortisation attributable to intangibles related to acquisitions is added back, in the period this is 2.6m 2014: 2.9m.
EBITA margin is EBITA as a proportion of group revenues.
EBIT is defined as operating profit before exceptional and other items.
EBIT margin is EBIT as a proportion of group revenues.
Adjusted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before exceptional and other items adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is defined as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 248.6m 2014: 245.8m.
Free cash flow is defined as net cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments, exceptional and other items and proceeds from the share placement in July 2015.
Adjusted net debt is defined as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
Underlying return on invested capital ROIC is defined as operating profit after applying the tax rate for the period, stated before exceptional and other items, as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is defined as non-current assets plus current assets less current liabilities, excluding all balances relating to interest bearing liabilities and all other assets or liabilities associated with the financing and capital structure of the group and excluding any deferred tax balances and effective hedges relating to interest-bearing liabilities.
138 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 01 Strategic report welcome 01 Performance highlights Sustainable business highlights 02 Chairmans introduction 04 Britvic at a glance to Britvics 06 Our brands 08 Our business model 09 Our geographies 10 Our strategy 2015 annual 12 Key performance indicators 14 Chief Executive Officers review 17 Chief Financial Officers review 22 Sustainable business review report for the 28 Our risks 02 Governance financial year 32 Corporate governance report 34 Board of directors 43 Audit Committee 46 Nomination Committee ended 27 48 Remuneration Committee 48 Directors remuneration report 53 Annual report on remuneration 70 Directors report September 73 Statement of directors responsibilities 03 Financial statements 2015 76 Independent auditor s report to the members of Britvic plc 79 Consolidated income statement 80 Consolidated statement of compr ehensive income expense In this report you can read an overview of our 81 Consolidated balance sheet business and what we do, find information 82 Consolidated statement of cash flows 83 Consolidated statement of changes in equity on our strategy and how we deliver it, how 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements we have performed in the financial year and 128 Company balance sheet 129 Notes to the company financial statements how we govern our business.
04 Other information 136 Shareholder information 138 Glossary Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements This announcement includes statements that are forward-looking in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the group to be materially Britvic takes care of the environment by choosing pureprint environmental print different from any future results, performance or achievements technology.
All the electricity used in the production of this report was generated from NOTE TO PRINTER renewable sources and vegetable oil based inks were used throughout.
The printer is a expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
INSERT FSC LOGO CarbonNeutral company and certificated to Environmental Management System, ISO Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, Britvic 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
undertakes no obligation to update or change any forwardThe paper used in this production is made from 100% recycled waste with FSC certification.
looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date such statements are published.
Designed by SG Design [sg-design.
co. uk] annual report 2015 annual report 2015 Britvic plc Breakspear Park Breakspear Way Hemel Hempstead HP2 4TZ Tel: 44 0 121 711 1102 www.
