Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts the determination as to whether control subsidiaries, joint control 1 Accounting policies joint arrangements, or significant influence associates exists Basis of accounting in relation to the investments held by the Group.
This is assessed The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance after taking into account the Groups ability to appoint directors with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by to the entitys board, its relative shareholding compared with the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 other shareholders, any significant contracts or arrangements with applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial the entity or its other shareholders and other relevant facts and statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as set out in the circumstances.
The application of this judgement in respect of Financial Review on page 35. the Groups investment in Reynolds American Inc. is explained in note 11: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policy below on the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and financial instruments.
translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on the free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates: and The preparation of the Group financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 on the first time adoption of reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and IFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to goodwill the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial on business combinations which are explained in the accounting statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in policies below.
the accounting policies below, together with the related notes to Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience the accounts.
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the The most significant items include: circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment may deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and affect the financial statements as the original estimates and impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the the budgeted cash flows of these units, the long-term growth rate circumstances change.
for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: Basis of consolidation the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
The consolidated financial information includes the financial The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction associates and joint arrangements.
These involve estimates about uncertain A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls future events based on the environment in different countries, an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the those returns through its power over the entity.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis are described in note 12: Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend They are accounted for using the equity method.
over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two below.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
Other provisions for Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the liabilities and charges are as set out in note 22.
The accounting policy parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 30.
The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income The application of these accounting policies to the payments made and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to Reynolds American Inc. is described in note 5: the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the equity method.
the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note 7: included from the date of acquisition of a controlling interest at which date, for the purposes of consolidation, the purchase consideration the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, including in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Similarly, the results intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair of associates and joint arrangements are included from the date of values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice acquiring significant influence or joint control respectively.
of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant transactions for 2015 are described in note 26 and in note 11: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 131
