BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information BTG plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2015 comprise the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates.
The financial statements were approved for issue by the Board on 18 May 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Groups accounting policies as approved by the Board and described below.
Accounting standards adopted in the year IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and other standards adopted by the EU do not have a significant impact on the Group.
Accounting standards issued but not yet effective No standards and interpretations issued by the EU but not yet effective are expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued by the IASB in May 2014, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017.
It has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group is currently assessing the impact, if any, of IFRS 15 on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This conclusion has been reached having considered the effect of liquidity risk on the Groups ability to operate effectively.
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of net cash and cash flow projections.
The Group does not currently require significant levels of debt financing to operate its business.
Further details of the Groups policies and objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 26 to the Accounts and are discussed in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 36.
The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees, distribution partners, wholesalers or insurers.
In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the directors have also considered the following factors when reaching the conclusion to continue to adopt the going concern basis: The Groups principal licensees are global industry leaders in their respective fields and the Groups royalty-generating intellectual property consists of a broad portfolio of licensees: Many of the Groups sales are life-saving in nature, providing some protection against an uncertain economic outlook: and In April 2013, the Group signed a 60m multi-currency revolving credit facility providing access to funds for a period of three years to April 2016.
Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs The consolidated income statement includes a separate column to disclose acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions.
Significant adjustments relate to the acquisitions of: PneumRx Inc. in January 2015: EKOS Corporation in July 2013: Targeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. in July 2013: 88 Biocompatibles International Plc in January 2011: and Financials Protherics PLC in December 2008.
The costs relate to the following: Amortisation and impairment arising on intangible assets acquired: Transaction costs incurred with professional advisers in relation to the completion of the corporate acquisitions: The release of the fair value uplift of inventory acquired: Reorganisation costs predominantly comprising acquisition related redundancy programmes, property costs, and asset impairments: and Fair value adjustments to contingent consideration on corporate acquisitions.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of accounting and preparation of financial statements The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where otherwise indicated and have been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to include revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments and business combination assets as set out below.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 3. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups proportionate share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity-accounted basis, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds the carrying value of its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and no further losses are recognised except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an associate.
Acquisition accounting The purchase method is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed are measured initially at their fair values on the date of acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets, including intangible assets acquired, is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Merger reserve A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes 89 the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
Financials Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations.
Fair value reserve The fair value reserve includes the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments.
If an investment suffers impairment due to a prolonged or significant decline in the fair value below acquisition cost, its share of the reserve is recycled to the income statement and any further declines in fair value of that investment are no longer charged to the reserve but immediately taken to the income statement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
c Operating segments An operating segment is defined as a component of the Group i that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses: ii whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups chief operating decision maker the Leadership Team to make resource allocation decisions and monitor its performance: and iii for which discrete financial information is available.
d Foreign currency i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Exchange gains losses on retranslation of foreign currency transactions and balances within trading intercompany balances are recognised in the income statement within Operating expenses.
ii Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in the translation reserve.
iii Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken to the translation reserve.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal of the investment.
e Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value and are designated as being measured at fair value through the income statement on inception.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement through Financial income or Financial expense as appropriate.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the balance sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
f Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and associates.
In respect of business combinations that have occurred since 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable 90 assets, including intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Financials Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is tested annually for impairment see 2 m. In respect of associates, the carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in the associate.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 g Intangible assets i Initial recognition Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
Cost includes the cost of obtaining patent protection for intellectual property rights, the cost of acquisition of patents and the costs of the internal patent attorney specific to obtaining the initial grant of a patent.
Income from patents is derived through licensing and other agreements.
ii Amortisation Intangible assets are amortised in a manner calculated to write off the cost, on a straight-line basis, over the effective life of the asset.
In determining the appropriate life of the asset, consideration is given to the expected cash generating life of the asset or remaining patent life if different.
The effective life of each class of asset is determined as follows: Developed technology: expected cash generating life, taking into account specific product and market characteristics for each developed technology: Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the contract: In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an economic return, at which point the effective life is assessed by reference to the remaining patent life: Computer software: the shorter of the licence period and three years: Patents: period to patent expiry: and Purchase of contractual rights: period to expiry of the contract.
In the event that an intangible asset is no longer used or a patent is abandoned, the balance of unamortised expenditure is written off immediately.
The following useful economic lives are applied: Developed technology 2 to 25 years Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years In-process research and development 12 to 25 years Computer software 3 years Patents 20 years Purchase of contractual rights 2 to 10 years iii Income statement disclosure Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
v Impairment If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. 91 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued h Property, plant and equipment i Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses see note 2 m. ii Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual value using the following useful economics lives: Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years Motor vehicles 5 years Computer hardware 3 to 5 years Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought into use.
The residual value is reassessed annually.
iii Income statement disclosure Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets is included within Operating expenses in the income statement.
Profits and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in profit loss on sale of tangible assets in the income statement.
iv Subsequent expenditure Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of a tangible fixed asset is capitalised only when it is probable that the Group will realise future economic benefits from the asset.
v Impairment If a tangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups policy on impairment see note 2 m. i Investments Investments in debt and equity securities held by the Group, classified as being available-for-sale, are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss being recognised directly in equity, except for impairment losses and, in the case of monetary items such as debt securities, foreign exchange gains and losses which are taken to the income statement.
When these investments are no longer recognised as assets, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Where these investments are interest-bearing, interest calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
j Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The first in, first out method of valuation is used.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a share of production overheads appropriate to the relevant stage of production.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Net realisable value is determined at the balance sheet date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all relevant marketing, selling and distribution costs.
92 Inventories relating to research and development projects are fully written down in the income statement unless the Group considers it probable to realise economic value from their sale or use.
If the circumstances that previously caused these Financials inventories to be written down below cost subsequently change and there is clear evidence of an increase in realisable value, the write down is reversed.
k Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are stated at amortised cost less impairment losses see 2 m. l Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management and for which the Group has a legal right of set-off are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 m Impairment Impairment testing is performed for all assets when there is an indicator of impairment.
In addition, for goodwill and unamortised intangible assets, impairment testing is performed both in the year of acquisition and annually at each balance sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Other specific categories of asset are treated as follows: i Equity investments Impairment is deemed to arise when there is a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the equity instrument.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
ii Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date and whenever there are events that indicate that an impairment may have occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised if an assets carrying amount exceeds the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses are recognised within Operating expenses in the income statement.
iii Amortised intangible assets Amortised intangible assets are also tested for impairment whenever there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When assessing the recoverable amount of an intangible asset the Group uses a risk adjusted discounted cash flow model.
iv Available-for-sale assets When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale asset has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised directly in equity is recognised in the income statement.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is recognised in the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale is not reversed through the income statement.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
n Government grants Government grants towards staff retraining costs are recognised as income over the periods in which the related costs are incurred and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the income statement over the useful lives of the assets concerned.
o Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with in the same manner as payments to defined contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are equivalent to a defined contribution retirement 93 benefit plan.
The funds of the schemes are independent of the Groups finances.
Financials ii Defined benefit plan For the Groups defined benefit pension plan, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions used to determine the valuation are shown in note 22.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised outside the income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Administrative costs of running the scheme are expensed directly in the Income Statement.
Significant accounting policies continued Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Assets of the pension scheme are held separately from the Groups assets.
iii Share-based payments In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been applied to all share-based grants made to employees after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain criteria.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an expense of employment in the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at the date of grant and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense in any year is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
However, if share options fail to vest due to share prices not achieving the designated performance threshold for vesting, no such adjustment takes place.
p Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income statement when the Group has approved a detailed and formal reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has either commenced or the Group has a constructive obligation, for example having made an announcement publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
q Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost except for the contingent considerations which are recognised at fair value.
Fair value adjustments to contingent considerations are reassessed at subsequent reporting periods and adjustments are taken when changes to the assumptions are required.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in respect of the sale of marketed products to customers during the year, net of trade discounts given and value added tax, and in respect of royalty arrangements.
A description of the various elements of revenue and the associated accounting policies is given below: i Marketed products The Group recognises revenue for marketed product sales when each condition of IAS 18, paragraph 14 is wholly-satisfied.
Where sales arrangements specify a second element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, this revenue is not recognised until this event has occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group.
In cases where product is sold to a customer with a right of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a multi-element arrangement and a portion of the value from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement right based on the fair value 94 of the replacement right.
Revenue is recognised net of any trade discounts that may be given from time-to-time.
Financials ii Royalties Revenues from the Groups licensed programmes are generated following the grant of a licence to a third party to undertake additional development and commercialisation of a research and development programme or other intellectual property rights.
In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled to additional revenues such as milestone payments or royalties on revenues generated by the licensee.
Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in turn be linked to additional obligations on BTG.
These revenues are accounted for in line with IAS 18 as follows: Upfront and milestone payments Non-refundable upfront and milestone payments are recognised as the earnings process is completed.
This may result in full recognition in the year in which the income is received.
However, where the Group has ongoing performance obligations such as the delivery of products or services, upfront payments are deferred over the period in which these obligations are satisfied.
Associated costs of performance obligations are expensed in the period to which they relate.
In determining the performance obligations under the contract, consideration is given as to whether elements of the obligations meet the criteria for separate accounting.
The Group applies the substantive milestone method in accounting for subsequent milestone payments.
Milestone payments that are considered substantive are recognised into income in the year in which they are received.
Milestones that do not satisfy the criteria to be considered as substantive are amortised over the remaining period in which the Group expects to fulfil its performance obligations under the agreement.
The Group considers the following when assessing whether a milestone is considered substantive: BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1.
Are the milestone payments non-refundable?
Does the achievement of the milestone involve a degree of risk that was not reasonably assured at the inception of the arrangement?
Is substantive effort involved in achieving the milestone?
Is the amount of the milestone payment reasonable in relation to the effort expended or the risk associated with the achievement of the milestone?
How does the time that passes between the payments compare to the effort required to reach the milestone?
Outlicensed product royalties Royalty income is generated by sales of products incorporating the Groups proprietary technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised once the amounts due can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying products and recoverability is assured.
Where there is insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil these requirements, for example in the case of a new product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales.
iii Sales assignments of Intellectual Property Rights IPR Outright sales or assignments of IPR are treated as disposals of non-current assets.
iv Revenues received in relation to development programmes Revenue received in relation to development programmes is recognised based on the percentage of completion of the programme.
Where payments may be earned in such programmes based on the achievement of uncertain milestones, revenue is restricted to the cumulative cash receivable for the programme.
s Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure incurred on development projects relating to the design and testing of new or improved products is recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial and technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and the ability to measure costs reliably.
Other development expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development expenditure previously recognised as an expense is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
Development expenditure that has a finite useful life and which has been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit.
No development expenditure has been capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Property, plant and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy and the cost is included within Research and development in the income statement.
t Cost of sales Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the market and revenue sharing costs.
Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar directly attributable items.
Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group of amounts due from a licensee.
They are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the individual agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line with revenue recognition.
u Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 95 of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Financials Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the length of the lease.
Assets purchased under hire purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except that these assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease within the appropriate functional expenditure heading.
v Financial income Financial income comprises interest income receivable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable upon corporate and non-corporate acquisitions.
w Financial expense Financial expense comprises interest payable during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, and fair value adjustments relating to foreign exchange forward contracts, contingent considerations payable upon corporate and non-corporate acquisitions, other financing costs and borrowings.
Significant accounting policies continued x Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
y BTG Employee Share Trust Included within the Groups financial results are those of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the costs of which are expensed within the financial statements of the Trust as incurred.
In the Company accounts the cost of BTG shares held by the Trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
z Financial guarantees Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
aa Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate.
Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, described in note 2, management and the Audit Committee discussed and agreed the selection, application and disclosure of the Groups critical accounting policies and the estimates used in the preparation of the accounts.
Acquisitions Judgments have been made in respect of the identification of intangible assets made on acquisitions based on pre-acquisition forecasts, analysis and negotiations.
In addition to the judgments and estimates made in establishing the intangible assets acquired and their value, in certain instances these assets are in development and are only amortised once the development 96 phase has been completed, although these assets are subjected to impairment review in accordance with the accounting policy Financials described in note 2 m. In addition to significant fair value adjustments in relation to intangible assets, the Group has recognised other fair value adjustments on assets and liabilities acquired.
Each adjustment has been calculated in line with the requirements of IFRS 3 revised.
The most significant of these relate to: Deferred tax: where estimates of deferred tax liabilities arising on acquired intangible assets have been recognised.
Where appropriate an associated deferred tax asset, representing managements estimation of the value of tax losses that would be available to the Group to offset the deferred tax liability see below, has also been recognised: Contingent consideration: where the present value of future performance and other milestones are estimated using acquisition date trading assumptions and forecasts to assess the likelihood of payments to be made: and Inventory: where inventory acquired has been uplifted in value to be held at estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Determining whether goodwill and other intangibles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill or other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
There is a risk of a material adverse impact on the income statement should an impairment adjustment be required to be reflected in the financial statements.
See note 2 m for further details.
Deferred tax The Group has significant deferred tax assets principally in relation to tax losses.
The assets have been recognised on the basis that management estimates demonstrate that it is more likely than not that future taxable profit will arise in the jurisdictions in which the losses are available.
If actual events differ from managements estimates or the estimates are changed in the future this could have a significant effect on the balance sheet net asset position of the Group.
In recognising deferred tax assets and liabilities, management has taken into account expected changes in tax rates in each relevant jurisdiction.
Pension assumptions Note 22 details the key actuarial assumptions used to establish the pension funding position.
These represent managements best estimates and are chosen based on historic experience and future expectations.
Should the discount rate used to establish scheme liabilities or the long-term expected rate of return on investment vary significantly then the pension fund valuation would be impacted.
Operating segments The Group is aligned behind three reportable segments, being Interventional Medicine, Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Licensing.
The acquisition of PneumRx Inc. on 7 January 2015 is included within the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
The acquisitions of EKOS Corporation on 5 July 2013 and the Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. on 13 July 2013 are included within the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
In assessing performance and making resource allocation decisions, the Leadership Team which is BTGs chief operating decision-making body reviews contribution by segment.
Contribution is defined as being gross profit less directly attributable selling, general and administrative costs SG&A.
The Licensing operating segment includes SG&A relating to the Groups centrally managed support functions and corporate overheads.
This reflects the management structure and stewardship of the business.
No allocation of central overheads is made across the Specialty Pharmaceuticals or Interventional Medicine operating segments.
Research and development continues to be managed on a global basis, with investment decisions being made by the Leadership Team as a whole.
It is not managed by reference to the Groups operating segments, though each programme within the pipeline would ultimately provide revenues for one of the operating segments if successful.
There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Year ended 31 March 2015 Interventional Specialty 1 Medicine Pharmaceuticals Licensing Total m m m m Revenue 112.7 121.1 134.0 367.8 Cost of sales 33.5 17.1 64.1 114.7 Gross profit 79.2 104.0 69.9 253.1 97 Selling, general and administrative expenses 70.1 24.9 29.8 124.8 Financials Contribution 9.1 79.1 40.1 128.3 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles assets 28.4 Foreign exchange gains 6.7 Research and development 68.3 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 0.3 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 3.7 Operating profit 34.9 Financial income 0.1 Financial expense 8.3 Profit before tax 26.7 Tax credit 6.9 Profit for the year 33.6 Unallocated assets 1,045.9 1 2015 Cost of Sales includes a 0.9m release of a fair value adjustment to inventory purchased on the acquisition of PneumRx Inc. on 7 January 2015 within the Interventional Medicine segment.
This represents the release of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement as the product is sold.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Operating segments continued Year ended 31 March 2014 Interventional Specialty 2 Medicine Pharmaceuticals Licensing Total m m m m Revenue 79.1 102.3 109.1 290.5 Cost of sales 22.5 20.9 51.6 95.0 Gross profit 56.6 81.4 57.5 195.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 42.8 22.7 18.5 84.0 Contribution 13.8 58.7 39.0 111.5 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles assets 23.3 Foreign exchange losses 5.0 Research and development 47.2 Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1.1 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 9.8 Operating profit 27.3 Financial income 8.2 Financial expense 2.2 Profit before tax 33.6 Tax charge 9.0 Profit for the year 24.3 Unallocated assets 711.7 2 2014 Cost of Sales includes a 1.9m release of a fair value adjustment to inventory purchased on the acquisition of EKOS on 5 July 2013 within the Interventional Medicine segment.
This release represents the release of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement as the product is sold.
Revenue analysis Analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers and the source of revenue is provided below: Geographical analysis Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m USA 327.1 256.1 Europe 31.1 26.5 Other regions 9.6 7.9 367.8 290.5 Revenue from major products and services Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Product sales 233.8 180.1 98 134.0 Royalties 110.4 Financials 367.8 290.5 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Major customers Products that utilise the Groups intellectual property rights are sold by licensees.
Royalty income is derived from over 60 licences.
One licence individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue of 105.2m 2014: One licence generated 83.8m.
The Groups marketed products are sold both directly and through distribution agreements in the USA, Europe and Asia Pacific region.
No individual customer generated income in excess of 10% of the Group revenue during the year ended 31 March 2015 or 31 March 2014.
Acquisition and reorganisation costs Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m PneumRx Inc. acquisition costs 2.8 EKOS Corporation acquisition costs 4.1 Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. acquisition costs 5.7 Other 0.9 Total charge for the year 3.7 9.8 The Group considers acquisition and reorganisation costs to include transaction costs of completing the acquisition and those costs resulting directly from decisions to rationalise both operating sites and business operations see accounting policies in note 1.
Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31March 2015 2014 Note m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 5.5 3.4 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 13 29.5 24.3 Net foreign exchange gains losses 6.7 5.0 Research and development expenses 68.3 47.2 Staff costs 7 100.2 63.7 Operating lease rentals payable on property 2.5 2.3 Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs 5 3.7 9.8 The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts: 170 165 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 300 295 99 Audit of Pension scheme trust 11 11 Financials Other audit-related assurance services 54 54 Taxation compliance services 256 48 All taxation advisory services not covered above 53 All assurance services not covered above 5 A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on pages 50 to 53 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Staff costs Staff costs including directors emoluments and reorganisation costs are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Salaries 81.3 48.0 Social security costs 8.8 6.9 Defined contribution pension costs 4.1 2.9 Defined benefit pension costs 0.4 0.6 Equity-settled transactions 5.6 5.3 100.2 63.7 Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
In addition to the disclosures in the Remuneration report, the charge to income in respect of equity-settled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS 2, was 1.9m 2014: 1.2m.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Management 102 68 Research and production 518 396 Sales, administration and business support 366 312 986 776 8.
Financial income Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits 0.1 0.2 Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 7.5 Other 0.5 Financial income 0.1 8.2 9.
Financial expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Fair value changes of foreign exchange forward contracts 6.2 Fair value changes on contingent consideration 1.0 1.4 100 Others 1.1 0.8 Financials Financial expense 8.3 2.2 10.
Tax An analysis of the tax credit charge in the income statement for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge Overseas corporate tax charge 12.2 14.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 0.8 Total current taxation 11.0 13.7 Deferred taxation Deferred tax credit 17.9 5.0 Adjustment to tax rates 0.3 Total tax credit charge for the year 6.9 9.0 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In addition to the tax credit charge in the income statement, a deferred tax credit of 1.8m 2014: 0.8m credit has been recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 21% 2014: 23% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 26.7 33.3 Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 21% 2014: 23% 5.6 7.6 Effect of overseas tax rates 2.2 4.3 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 11.6 3.1 Non-deductible expenses 1.4 4.9 Effect of UK patent box deduction 3.7 2.8 Adjustment to tax rates 0.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 2.2 6.9 9.0 An analysis of amounts included in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Current assets UK corporation tax receivable 1.4 0.9 Overseas corporate tax receivable 0.6 1.4 1.5 Current liabilities Overseas corporate tax payable 3.2 7.4 3.2 7.4 Deferred taxation The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12, Income Taxes during the year are as shown below.
The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax asset 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax asset recognised at 1 April 0.8 0.9 Income statement credit 4.2 Currency movements 0.1 0.1 101 Deferred tax asset recognised at 31 March 4.9 0.8 Financials The deferred tax asset relates to tax losses in the UK and short term timing differences in Australia.
The UK losses have been recognised using a tax rate of 20% 2014: no UK losses recognised and the short-term timing differences in Australia have been recognised using a tax rate of 30% 2014: 30%.
The directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in the UK and Australia in the forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of the respective assets.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Tax continued Deferred tax liability The deferred tax liability of 152.4m 2014: 90.4m represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction.
Deferred tax liabilities predominantly arise on intangible assets recognised on acquisitions 186.2m and pension surplus 4.6m.
Deferred tax assets relate to brought forward trading losses and short-term timing differences.
The table below summarises the gross and net position at each balance sheet date: Deferred tax Deferred tax Net deferred tax assets liabilities liability m m m At 1 April 2013 22.3 66.1 43.8 Adjustments re prior years 1.5 1.5 Acquisitions 7.0 66.2 59.2 Income statement debit credit 6.2 9.4 3.2 Other comprehensive income credit 0.8 0.8 Offset against current tax payable 1.1 1.1 Currency movements 1.0 9.2 8.2 At 1 April 2014 22.5 112.9 90.4 Adjustments re prior years 0.5 0.1 0.4 Acquisitions 11.0 74.0 63.0 Income statement debit credit 3.6 10.4 14.0 Other comprehensive income credit 1.8 1.8 R&D tax credits 0.3 0.3 Reclassification 0.5 0.5 Currency movements 1.5 12.6 11.1 At 31 March 2015 38.9 191.3 152.4 A reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax to 20% from 1 April 2015 was substantively enacted on 17 July 2013.
The rate of 20% from 1 April 2016 was substantively enacted on 25 March 2015.
The UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 March 2015 have been calculated based on the rate of 20%.
Unrecognised tax losses In addition to the losses on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional tax losses and other timing differences which have arisen principally as a result of the research and development incurred during the start up of the Groups activities.
These losses and timing differences are shown below.
UK tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and the first year in which they expire is 2018.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of the losses and timing differences shown below as there is uncertainty as to whether such losses and timing differences can be used.
The total amount of tax losses and timing differences not recognised is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m 102 Tax losses 121.4 142.4 Financials Deductible temporary differences 21.6 14.8 143.0 157.2 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11.
Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Profit for the financial year m 33.6 24.3 Profit per share p Basic 9.1 6.8 Diluted 9.0 6.7 Number of shares m Weighted average number of shares basic 367.9 355.2 Effect of share options on issue 5.4 4.6 Weighted average number of shares diluted 373.3 359.8 The basic and diluted earnings per share from underlying earnings are based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Profit for the financial year m 33.6 24.3 Add back: a Fair value adjustment on acquired inventory 0.6 1.2 b Amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets 19.5 15.3 c Acquisition and reorganisation costs 3.1 9.3 d Fair values changes on contingent consideration 1.0 1.4 Underlying earnings 57.8 51.5 Underlying profit per share p Basic 15.7 14.5 Diluted 15.4 14.3 Adjustments to profit are shown after taking into account the tax effect of such adjustments on the results as shown in the consolidated income statement as follows: a.
In the year ended 31 March 2015 there was 0.3m tax impact 2014: 0.7m on fair value adjustment of inventory acquired of 0.9m 2014: 1.9m.
The release of deferred tax liability of 8.9m 2014: 8.0m has been deducted from the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of 28.4m 2014: 23.3m as shown in the consolidated income statement.
c. In the year ended 31 March 2015 there was a 0.6m tax impact on reorganisation costs of 3.7m.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 there was 0.5m tax impact on reorganisation costs of 9.8m.
103 d. No tax adjustments 2014: nil were required on the fair value changes on the contingent consideration of 1.0m 2014: 1.4m.
Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill Note m At 1 April 2013 59.2 Acquisitions 32 71.1 Exchange differences 6.7 At 1 April 2014 123.6 Acquisitions 32 51.6 Exchange differences 8.6 At 31 March 2015 183.8 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2013, 1 April 2014 and 31 March 2015 Net book value at 31 March 2015 183.8 Net book value at 1 April 2014 123.6 Net book value at 1 April 2013 59.2 During the year ended 31 March 2015 additions to Interventional Medicine goodwill of 51.6m related to the acquisition of PneumRx Inc. see note 32.
During the year ended 31 March 2014 additions to Interventional Medicine goodwill of 71.1m related to the acquisitions of EKOS Corporation and the Targeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. see note 32.
Impairment review goodwill and intangible assets An impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill and unamortised intangible assets was conducted as at 31 March 2015.
Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of Protherics PLC and Biocompatibles International plc, EKOS Corporation, the Targeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. and PneumRx Inc.
This has been allocated across the Groups cash generating units, being its operating segments see note 4.
Goodwill recognised on acquisitions has been allocated across operating segments in proportion to the anticipated benefits of that goodwill on the operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated as relating to Interventional Medicine 147.3m 2014: 87.1m as relating to Specialty Pharmaceuticals 16.4m 2014: 16.4m, and in relation to Licensing, 20.1m 2014: 20.1m.
The impairment review required the estimation of the recoverable amount based on the value in use of the underlying cash generating unit.
Near-term projections are based on the Groups approved three-year plan.
Longer-term projections through to the end of an assets estimated useful economic life are included due to the long-term nature of pharmaceutical product development and product life cycles.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include market share and gross margin for the marketed products, individual probability-adjusted cash flow models for all in-process research and development and an assessment of the net present value of future net royalty income for licensed patents.
Cash flow projections for all assets were included for a period equal to the estimated useful economic life of the assets.
No terminal values were applied.
All cash flows were discounted back to present value using a pre-tax discount rate of between 7% 2014: 7% to 26% 2014: 23% representing the range of asset classes being tested including established royalty streams, launched marketed products and in-process research and development projects and which takes into account the individual risk characteristics of each particular asset and related income stream.
104 For developed technology, the Group uses its approved three-year budget for near term sales projections, adjusting for expected Financials changes in future conditions, including those anticipated as a result of our knowledge of competitor activity and our assessment of future changes in the pharmaceutical industry for long-term projections.
For contractual relationships, the Group uses the same basic methodology as for developed technology but limits the projection period to the appropriate useful economic life of the contractual relationship.
For in-process research and development the key assumptions are the chance of product launch, market share and overall market size.
Industry average statistics are used to assess the chance of product launch, taking into account the stage of development of the asset, the therapeutic area targeted and any known specific characteristics of the asset.
Market share and overall market size are assessed by reference to independent industry market reports.
In assessing whether there has been an impairment the net present value of future cash flows is compared to the carrying value in the accounts.
The Group do not consider that there are any reasonable possible sensitivities that could result in an impairment charge.
The Group have considered the following specific individual sensitivities: a 1% increase in the discount rates used would not trigger an impairment: a 5% reduction in operating cashflows would not trigger an impairment.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13.
All other amortisation and impairment is shown within Selling, general and administrative expenses in Operating expenses.
Developed technology Developed technology includes the RePneu Coil System Europe acquired in PneumRx Inc. EkoSonic acquired in EKOS Corporation see note 32, TheraSphere acquired in the Targeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. see note 32, the antidote assets acquired in Protherics PLC comprising principally of the rights to CroFab and DigiFab and the bead assets acquired in Biocompatibles International plc comprising principally of the rights to the DC Bead and LC Bead.
The carrying value of individually significant assets within developed technology is: Remaining 105 amortisation 31 March 31 March period at Financials 2015 2014 31 March m m 2015 RePneu Europe 108.9 14.8 years EkoSonic 110.5 105.8 13.3 years TheraSphere 94.4 90.3 13.3 years CroFab 67.5 63.3 18.7 years DigiFab 21.8 20.5 18.7 years DC Bead and LC Bead 77.0 84.1 10.8 years In-process research and development Additions to in-process research and development includes the RePneu Coil System US acquired in PneumRx Inc. in the year ended 31 March 2015 and the Targeted Therapies assets acquired in the Targeted Therapies Division of Nordion Inc. in the year ended 31 March 2014 see note 32.
Remaining amortisation 31 March 31 March period at 2015 2014 31 March m m 2015 RePneu US 81.5 Targeted Therapies assets 17.8 15.9 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Other investments 2015 2014 m m At 1 April 3.0 3.0 Additions Impairment charge At 31 March 3.0 3.0 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale that are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of unlisted investments is estimated to be the valuation following the latest round 106 of equity funding.
In the absence of specific market data the Group determines that cost is equal to fair value.
Financials Where the fair value of an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the impairment charge is recognised in the income statement, together with any amounts recycled from the fair value reserve see note 19.
These impairments initially arise from the prolonged or significant decline in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further decline in fair value is immediately taken to the income statement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16.
Inventories 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Raw materials and consumables 14.9 12.0 Work in progress 10.2 11.5 Finished goods 15.4 3.5 40.5 27.0 In the year ended 31 March 2015 a fair value adjustment of 0.9m was recognised through cost of sales see note 4 leaving 1.5m fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of PneumRx Inc. remaining see note 32.
In the year ended 31 March 2014 a fair value adjustment of 1.9m was recognised through cost of sales see note 4 leaving nil fair value uplift recognised on the acquisition of EKOS Corporation remaining see note 32.
Inventory to the value of 3.4m 2014: 1.8m was written off through cost of sales.
Trade and other receivables 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Due within one year Revenues receivable, net of provisions 38.7 28.8 Other debtors 10.6 9.0 Prepayments and accrued income 42.6 37.3 91.9 75.1 Managing credit risk: Revenues receivable, net of provisions represents marketed product sales sold both directly and through distribution agreements for the year to 31 March 2015 and certain other amounts receivable under licence agreements.
The ageing of these amounts was as follows: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Gross Provision Gross Provision m m m m Not past due 31.0 24.8 0-30 days 4.7 2.7 31-90 days 1.3 0.2 0.9 90 days 2.6 0.7 0.9 0.5 Total 39.6 0.9 29.3 0.5 Provisions for bad debts of 0.9m 2014: 0.5m have been made to write down the value of doubtful receivables to estimated recoverable amounts.
The charge for the year to 31 March 2015 in respect of provisions for bad debts was 0.4m 2014: 0.2m credit.
Cash and cash equivalents 107 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Financials m m Bank balances 73.8 38.2 Cash and cash equivalents in statement of cash flows 73.8 38.2 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Equity Other reserves are analysed as follows: Translation Fair value Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m At 1 April 2013 0.1 0.1 0.2 Total recognised income and expense 32.4 32.4 At 1 April 2014 32.3 0.1 32.2 Total recognised income and expense 41.6 41.6 At 31 March 2015 9.3 0.1 9.4 The merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
The balance on the merger reserve has arisen through the acquisitions of Biocompatibles International plc on 27 January 2011 and Protherics PLC on 4 December 2008 and includes directly attributable costs of issuing shares of 1.1m relating to the acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc.
The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below: Ordinary shares of 10p each 2015 2014 Number m Number m At 1 April 361,586,534 36.1 328,276,871 32.8 Issued for cash 20,190,169 2.1 33,309,663 3.3 At 31 March 381,776,703 38.2 361,586,534 36.1 In December 2014, BTG completed a share placing for a total of 18,867,925 new ordinary shares at a price of 795p per placing share, raising proceeds of 150.0m being 145.7m net of expenses.
In May 2013, BTG completed a share placing for a total of 32,208,030 new ordinary shares at a price of 330p per placing share, raising proceeds of 106.3m being 103.1m net of expenses.
The remainder of shares issued in the current and prior year were as a result of the exercise of share options.
Share options Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 23.
Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 10.8 14.0 Accruals and deferred income 81.6 59.3 Contingent consideration 15.1 3.4 Other creditors 3.5 3.2 108 111.0 79.9 Financials Amounts falling due after more than one year Accruals and deferred income 0.3 0.3 Contingent consideration 17.6 2.1 Other creditors 0.2 17.9 2.6 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21.
Derivative financial instruments 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign exchange contracts due within one year 4.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts due after more than one year 0.9 Derivative instrument assets 5.3 Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign exchange contracts due within one year 0.9 Derivative instrument liabilities 0.9 The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
At 31 March 2015 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$237m in the period to March 2016 at rates in the range 1:US$1.49 - 1:US$1.51.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2015 as a liability at 0.9m.
At 31 March 2014 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$144m in the period to June 2015 at rates in the range 1:US$1.51 - 1:US$1.65.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments was marked to market at 31 March 2014 as an asset at 5.3m.
The fair value gain loss for the year associated with these forward contracts was included within Financial income expense.
A 5% strengthening of the US$ as at 31 March 2015, all other variables being unchanged, would result in an increase of 8.3m within Financial expense in the income statement and a fair value liability of 9.2m within Derivative instruments within assets.
A 5% weakening of the US$ would result in a 7.7m decrease in Financial expense and a fair value asset of 6.8m within Derivative instruments within assets.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined benefit scheme For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments.
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004.
The plan is a registered scheme under the provisions of Schedule 36 of the Finance Act 2004 and assets are held in a legally separate, trustee-administered fund.
The trustees are required by law to act in the best interest of the plan participants and are responsible for setting the plans investment and governance policies.
The results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2013 were updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19.
The plan exposes the Group to inflation risk, interest rate risk, market investment and longevity risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or plan specific risks.
The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on the basis of RPI.
109 The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during 2015 16 is 2.9m 2014 15 Financials actual: 2.9m.
The IAS 19 position of the plan is generally expected to be different to the triennial funding valuation assessment.
The two main drivers of this difference are the requirements for prudence in the funding basis compared to the IAS 19 best-estimate principle, and the IAS 19 requirements to use a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds compared to a prudent expectation of actual asset returns for funding.
This can sometimes lead to a situation where the IAS 19 measure shows a surplus while the funding measure shows a deficit, with associated deficit recovery contributions payable by the Group.
The Group has taken professional advice and concluded that it has no requirement to adjust the balance sheet in respect of either a current surplus or a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC14.
This is on the basis that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of a current or projected future surplus at some point in the future.
The following table sets out the key IAS 19 assumptions used for the plan: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2013 Retail price inflation 3.1% p. a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 88.5 88.4 87.5 Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 91.0 90.8 89.1 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Retirement benefit schemes continued Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with published statistics.
The mortality tables used at both year-ends 2015 and 2014 are S1NA tables based on year of birth, with a multiplicative adjustment factor to reflect the Groups assessment of the average current mortality rates of the plan members relative to the tables.
Amongst the UK population, there is a continuing trend for a generation to live longer than the preceding generation, and this has been reflected in the longevity assumption by adopting CMI core projections and also incorporating a minimum long-term rate of improvement in longevity of 1.5% 1.25% p. a. for males and females respectively in 2015 2014: 1.5% 1.25% p. a. for males and females respectively.
The following table sets out related IAS 19 assumptions used: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2013 Pension increases in deferment RPI inflation 3.1% p. a.
Pension increases in payment RPI inflation 3.1% p. a.
Pension increases in payment inflation capped at 2.5% 2.1% p. a.
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the plan is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2013 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 124.9 110.9 110.7 Fair value of scheme assets 138.1 118.9 121.0 Net asset recognised in the statement of financial position 13.2 8.0 10.3 A net asset is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current assets.
The IAS 19 expense is made up of the current service cost, plan administrative expenses, interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on plans assets, all of which are shown in the change in defined benefit obligation and assets tables below.
The expense has been included in Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative expenses.
The allocation of the plans assets is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2013 Equity instruments 10% 16% 15% Diversified growth funds 11% 14% 14% Liability driven investment 29% 0% 0% Absolute return bonds 20% 0% 0% Illiquid inflation assets 15% 0% 0% Inflation linked bonds 0% 55% 56% Corporate bonds 0% 14% 14% Cash net current assets 15% 1% 1% 110 There are no direct investments in the Groups own shares or property occupied by any member of the Group.
Financials At 31 March 2015, all asset classes have quoted prices in active markets, with the exception of the illiquid inflation assets which are priced and traded on a monthly basis.
At 31 March 2014, all asset classes had quoted prices in active markets, with the exception of one of the two diversified growth funds around 7% of the overall portfolio.
Diversified growth funds invest in a range of underlying asset classes and derivatives: typically equities, bonds including high yield and emerging market debt, hedge funds, commodities, infrastructure and property, and vary their allocations to these markets tactically.
They aim to achieve long term returns that are broadly in line with the long-term equity returns, but with lower volatility and an element of capital preservation.
In setting the investment strategy, the trustees considered the views of the Group, their assessment of the Groups covenant supporting the actuarial risks faced by the plan, the risk and rewards of a number of possible asset allocation options, the suitability of a wide range of asset classes within each strategy across and within asset classes, and the need for appropriate diversification amongst different asset classes.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the fair value of the plan assets and the net asset liability over the year ended 31 March 2015 are as follows: Net asset Obligation Plan Assets liability Year ended 31 March 2015 m m m Beginning of the year 110.9 118.9 8.0 Employers part of the current service cost 0.3 0.3 Interest cost income 4.8 5.2 0.4 Contributions by the employer 2.9 2.9 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gain experience 0.7 15.5 16.2 Actuarial loss financial assumptions 14.0 14.0 Benefits paid 4.5 4.5 End of the year 124.9 138.1 13.2 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the fair value of the plan assets and the net asset liability over the year ended 31 March 2014 are as follows: Net asset Obligation Plan Assets liability Year ended 31 March 2014 m m m Beginning of the year 110.7 121.0 10.3 Employers part of the current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest cost income 4.8 5.3 0.5 Contributions by the employer 3.6 3.6 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gain loss experience 2.1 6.3 4.2 Actuarial loss demographic assumptions 1.8 1.8 Benefits paid 4.8 4.8 End of the year 110.9 118.9 8.0 The actual return on the plan assets over 2015 was a gain of 20.7m 2014: loss of 1.0m.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 15 years 2014: 16 years.
The administrative costs shown above are nil as they paid directly by the Group and are expensed separately outside IAS 19.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the plan obligations are: Increase in Obligation Increase in Plan Assets Increase in Net Liability 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Change in assumption m m m m m m Discount Rate Decrease 0.1% 1.9 1.7 2.2 1.5 0.3 0.2 RPI inflation Increase 0.1% 1.7 1.4 1.8 1.4 0.1 Life expectancy Increase 1 year 4.1 3.7 4.1 3.7 111 The sensitivity information has been derived using projected cash flows valued using the relevant assumptions and membership Financials profile as at 31 March 2015.
The sensitivity methodology has not changed from prior years.
Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate.
Defined contribution schemes The Group offers defined contribution pension schemes for its employees.
The total income statement charge in relation to these schemes was 4.1m 2014: 2.9m.
The Groups defined contribution schemes are operated by external providers.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to these schemes is to make the specified contributions.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share based payments Share options The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the Company.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant with a vesting period of generally three years.
They may only be exercised upon the attainment of certain performance criteria.
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver.
In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time.
For further details of current awards, see the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
Option pricing For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a binomial lattice option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Risk-free interest rate 0.5% 1.3% 0.4% 1.0% Dividend yield Nil Nil Volatility 25% 30% 29% 31% Expected lives of options and awards granted under: Share option plan 3 years 3 years Sharesave plan 3.37 years 3.37 years Stock purchase plan 2.13 years 2.13 years Performance share plan 3 5 years 3 5 years Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 389.7p 161.7p Weighted average fair value for sharesave grants in the year 202.3p 136.3p Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 153.5p 96.0p Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 504.2p 323.4p Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 599.0p 368.0p The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, restricted or performance shares, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publiclyavailable information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Service and non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009 and later years have a market condition based on a TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment & services and real 112 estate investment trusts etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel & leisure, Financials and leisure goods.
Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap excluding Investment Trusts index.
If the Companys share price at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based performance condition will be considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of share price returns in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between share price and index performance.
This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant.
See the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75 for further information.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Details of options and awards under the Groups share plans are shown in the tables below.
2015 2015 2014 2014 Number Weighted Number Weighted of share average of share average options exercise options exercise 000 price p 000 price p Share options Outstanding at 1 April 1,565 269.6 1,682 262.3 Granted during year 66 631.6 26 395.1 Lapsed during year 54 273.2 Exercised during year 341 271.9 89 117.2 Outstanding at 31 March 1,290 287.7 1,565 269.6 Exercisable at 31 March 872 222.3 676 186.8 Sharesave plan Outstanding at 1 April 510 274.0 459 245.2 Granted during year 268 498.7 208 289.5 Lapsed during year 33 310.2 62 272.7 Exercised during year 170 220.4 95 161.2 Outstanding at 31 March 575 392.5 510 274.0 Exercisable at 31 March Stock purchase plan Outstanding at 1 April 93 339.9 95 305.3 Granted during year 181 530.0 62 332.0 Lapsed during year 18 402.7 24 340.0 Exercised during year 35 349.5 40 248.8 Outstanding at 31 March 221 489.0 93 339.9 Exercisable at 31 March Options outstanding at 31 March 2015 Weighted Latest exercise Number exercise date year ended 000 price p 31 March Share options granted in year ended 31 March 2010 290 179.3 2020 2011 329 201.3 2021 2012 253 298.9 2022 2013 333 384.1 2023 2014 19 395.1 2017 2015 66 631.6 2018 1,290 Sharesave plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2013 126 320.2 2016 113 2014 184 289.5 2017 Financials 2015 265 498.7 2018 575 Stock purchase plan options granted in year ended 31 March 2014 46 332.0 2016 2015 175 530.0 2017 221 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Share based payments continued Performance share awards Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of three years.
In 2013, amendments to the rules of the Plan and the terms of new performance conditions were approved at the AGM.
These included the opportunity for executive directors only to voluntarily elect to carry-forward and put at risk for a further two years shares that would have vested under the core award after three years into a multiplier award.
A Senior Management Performance Share Plan was approved by the Board in 2012 in order to award shares to certain senior employees below Board level.
The shares will vest on the second anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of share share awards awards 000 000 Performance share awards Outstanding at 1 April 4,142 3,361 Granted during year 1,891 2,000 Lapsed during year 112 350 Exercised during year 775 869 Outstanding at 31 March 5,146 4,142 Exercisable at 31 March Senior Management Performance Share Plan Outstanding at 1 April 123 142 Granted during year Lapsed during year 25 19 Exercised during year 98 Outstanding at 31 March 123 Exercisable at 31 March Deferred share bonus plan The Company established a deferred share bonus plan.
The executive directors, members of the leadership team and certain other senior staff have part of their bonus awarded in shares.
The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of share share awards awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 570 757 Granted during year 41 192 114 Lapsed during year 3 37 Exercised during year 172 342 Financials Outstanding at 31 March 436 570 Exercisable at 31 March For the performance share awards and the deferred share bonus plan awards are forfeited if the director or other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
If the Remuneration Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a good leaver, so their award may be released early, the award will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award and may be subject to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee.
For further details see the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
BTG Employee Share Trust The Group includes an employee share trust, the BTG Employee Share Trust the Trust, which was established in Guernsey in 1992.
It holds shares for the general benefit of all employees who may eventually become legally entitled to them.
The Trust may distribute these shares to employees of the Group on the recommendation of the Company.
These distributions may be as a result of awards under the Performance Share Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan or the Senior Management Performance Share Plan.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25.
Provisions 2015 2014 Leases Other Total Leases Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 0.9 0.1 1.0 0.8 0.2 1.0 Provisions utilised during year Provisions made during year 0.9 0.9 0.2 0.2 Provisions released during the period 0.1 0.1 0.2 Difference on exchange At 31 March 1.8 0.1 1.9 0.9 0.1 1.0 Balance due within one year 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.5 Balance due after more than one year 1.4 1.4 0.5 0.5 1.8 0.1 1.9 0.9 0.1 1.0 Lease provisions relate to dilapidation provisions and represent the estimated cost of restoring sites to their original state.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments.
This note sets out the Groups key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay for goods received.
The Groups primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Groups revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income from sales of licensed products.
In such instances the Groups exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees.
The Groups policy is to provide against bad debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Following transitions from distribution agreements to direct sales during prior years, the majority of the marketed product revenues are currently generated from sales to several key wholesalers in the U. S. Management maintains regular communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit risk exposure.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has limited debt facilities in the form of assets held under finance leases.
The Group has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
In April 2013, the Group signed a 60m multi-currency revolving credit facility providing access to funds for a period of three years to April 2016.
This has not been utilised in the period.
115 The Groups policy is to place surplus cash resources on short and medium term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash Financials flow can be reasonably predicted.
Term deposits are denominated in UK sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates.
The Groups principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk The Group has several overseas subsidiary undertakings, the majority of revenues and the expenses of which are denominated in local currencies being US dollars, Canadian dollars, euros and Australian dollars.
As a result the Groups sterling income statement, balance sheet and cash flows may be affected by movements in sterling exchange rates with these currencies.
The Groups primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide certainty over the value of future cash flows.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued A significant element of the Groups revenue is denominated in US dollars with the remainder split between sterling, euros and other currencies.
The majority of the Groups operating expenses are in sterling and US dollars with smaller elements in euros, Canadian dollars and Australian dollars.
Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency revenues.
The excess exposure over and above this natural hedge, to the extent that cash flows are predictable, is managed using forward contracts see note 21.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the US$ at 31 March 2015 would have resulted in the following decrease in profit: 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Decrease in Profit 3.6 2.0 Interest rate risk The Group seeks to mitigate partially against increased interest rates whilst maintaining a degree of flexibility to benefit from decreasing rates of interest by holding a mix of fixed and floating rate financial liabilities.
The Group seeks to maximise the amount of interest income from its cash balances by using a variety of short-term, fixed high-interest deposit and moneymarket accounts.
The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Groups technology as part of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development.
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle.
Regular reports are made to the Board on the status of investments.
These investments form part of the Groups overall technology portfolio and do not materially affect liquidity.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken: To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits for inventive sources and returns to investors: and To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.
The Groups capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Total equity capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders 758.6 530.4 Total assets 1,045.9 711.7 Equity ratio 72.5% 74.5% 116 Financials The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, shortand medium-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, contingent considerations and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.
In addition, a number of debt and equity investments, both quoted and unquoted, are held in technology-based companies along with borrowings including obligations under finance leases.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: Forward Total Designated contracts Available Amortised carrying Fair 1 at fair value at fair value for sale cost value value m m m m m m 31 March 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 38.2 38.2 Forward contracts 5.3 5.3 5.3 Other investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 Trade and other receivables 75.1 75.1 Trade and other payables excluding contingent consideration 77.0 77.0 Contingent consideration 5.5 5.5 5.5 31 March 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 73.8 73.8 Forward contracts 0.9 0.9 Other investments 3.0 3.0 3.0 Trade and other receivables 91.1 91.1 91.1 Trade and other payables excluding contingent consideration 96.2 96.2 Contingent consideration 32.7 32.7 32.7 1 The Group has not disclosed the fair values for financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables because their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2 observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 3 unobservable inputs 117 Financials BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 March 2014 m m m m Financial assets recognised at fair value Forward contracts 5.3 5.3 Investments 3.0 3.0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Fair value of other contingent consideration 5.5 5.5 At 31 March 2015 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 3.0 3.0 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward contracts 0.9 0.9 Fair value of other contingent consideration 32.7 32.7 Level 2 financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ which are marked-to-market at each balance sheet date and other investments held at fair value as disclosed in note 15.
Level 3 financial liabilities predominantly represent: contingent consideration payable on achievement of revenue targets and product approval by PneumRx following the acquisition of PneumRx Inc. in January 2014 see note 32 a for valuation methodology : contingent consideration payable on achievement of revenue targets by EKOS following the acquisition of EKOS Corporation in July 2013 see note 32 c for valuation methodology : contingent consideration payable upon the purchase of the US commercial rights of product candidate uridine triacetate representing contingent milestone payments upon NDA acceptance and approval of the product candidate.
The movement in these Level 3 financial liabilities is shown below.
2015 2014 m m At 1 April 5.5 0.8 Acquisitions 28.7 17.5 Movements in Fair Value 1.0 0.9 Paid during the year 3.5 11.9 Currency movements 1.0 1.8 At 31 March 32.7 5.5 Contractual maturity analysis of financial assets liabilities 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within: m m 118 0 3 months 0.3 1.3 Financials 3 6 months 0.2 1.1 6 12 months 0.4 2.0 12 months 0.9 Total 0.9 5.3 Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities Foreign exchange gains of 6.7m 2014: losses of 5.0m were recognised within Operating profit in relation to settlement of trade receivables and payables.
The Group recognised a fair value loss of 6.2m 2014: gain of 7.5m relating to forward foreign exchange contracts within Financial expense 2014: Financial income.
Estimation of fair values The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Other investments These comprise both listed and unlisted investments, available-for-sale.
The figure recorded in the statement of financial position note 15 is the best estimate of fair value.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Finance leases The fair values of such balances are estimated by discounting the future cash flows at the market rate.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year so their value recorded in the statement of financial position is considered to be a fair approximation of fair value.
Other contingent considerations are fair valued at each reporting period recognising any changes between fair value at initial recognition and fair value at year-end to reflect a change in factors, including time.
Operating leases Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods: 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Property Property m m Within one year 2.8 2.5 Between two and five years 7.3 6.5 10.1 9.0 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities primarily in the UK, the US, Canada, Germany, Asia-Pacific and Australia.
These leases have terms of up to five years.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods.
In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses.
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
Other financial commitments The Group has entered into agreements with a number of early-stage companies and venture capital funds.
At 31 March 2015 the Group is committed to invest nil under these agreements 2014: nil.
As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time to time resort to litigation or threats of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights.
Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary from year to year.
In the current year the Group incurred 7.5m in litigation costs 2014: 1.5m predominantly relating to the settlement of a patent dispute with Instituto Bioclon.
The Company has entered into an agreement to guarantee payments under the lease of a US subsidiary undertaking.
The Company has provided a Guarantee to certain subsidiary undertakings in respect of the BTG Pension Scheme up to a maximum amount equal to the lowest non-negative amount which, when added to the assets of the Scheme, would result in the scheme being at least 105% funded on the date on which any liability arose, calculated on the basis set out in section 179 of the Pensions Act 2004, were a valuation to be conducted as at that date.
Related parties Identity of related parties 119 The Group has a related-party relationship with its subsidiary undertakings see note 2 b, its associates see note 2 b Financials and its directors.
In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 48 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 5,000 for the year ended 31 March 2015 nil during the year ended 31 March 2014.
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2015 2014: nil.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 75.
Disposal of Brachytherapy business In September 2013, BTG announced the sale of its Brachytherapy business to Eckert & Ziegler Group, based in Berlin, Germany for a payment of $5.0m on closing plus a 30% share of revenues from the transferring products for a period of 12 months commencing either with the start of production by Eckert & Ziegler or on January 2014, whichever is first.
The deal completed on 1 November 2013.
The profit on disposal of the Brachytherapy business of 0.4m was included within the profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of 1.1m in the Income Statement.
The net proceeds of the disposal were included within Net proceeds from disposal of property and equipment and intangible assets in the cash flow statement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Group entities The subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2015 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise.
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Class of capital Principal activity BTG International Holdings Ltd Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies Provensis Ltd Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG Employee Share Schemes Ltd Ordinary Trustee company Guernsey BTG Management Services Ltd Ordinary Investment and management of Group companies Protherics Medicines Development Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Inc. Common stock Research, development, and sale of pharmaceutical products Delaware, USA Protherics UK Ltd Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products BTG Australasia Pty Ltd Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products Australia Protherics Utah Inc. Common stock Research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical products Tennessee, USA Biocompatibles International Ltd Ordinary Investment and management of group companies Biocompatibles UK Ltd Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR Biopolymerix Inc. Common stock Dormant company Delaware, USA Biocompatibles Inc. Common stock Distribution of Bead products, TheraSphere and Varithena Delaware, USA BTG International Germany GmbH No par value shares Research and development Germany Provensis Inc. Common stock Dormant company Delaware, USA BTG International Canada Inc. Common shares Support of Interventional Medicine business Canada BTG International Asia Ltd Ordinary Sales support for the interventional medicine business Hong Kong, China EKOS Corporation Common stock Manufacture and commercialisation of therapeutic ultrasound devices Delaware, USA 120 PneumRx, Inc. Common stock Development, manufacture and Financials commercialisation of the RePneu Coil System Delaware, USA PneumRx GmbH No par value shares Commercialisation and sale of the RePneu Coil System Germany BTG International Healthcare Ltd Ordinary Group financing BTG International Healthcare Inc. Common stock Group financing Delaware, USA BTG International Healthcare LLC Ordinary Group financing Delaware, USA Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32. Business combinations Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2015 a PneumRx acquisition BTG completed the acquisition of 100% of PneumRx on 7 January 2015 for an initial cash consideration of 153.4m $231.0m and up to $245m in contingent consideration based upon performance related future milestones.
The contingent consideration had a carrying value equal to its fair value of 28.8m using acquisition date trading assumptions and probability adjusted forecasts to assess the likelihood of revenue and FDA approval milestone payments to be made.
The final determination of these fair values will be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
PneumRx owns, manufactures and distributes RePneu Coil System RePneu, a minimally invasive treatment for advanced emphysema, which seeks to enhance patients quality of life by improving lung function and exercise capacity.
At the date of acquisition, RePneu was in 11 European countries and had a fully recruited US pivotal clinical trial under way.
A decision on US approval is anticipated during 2016.
The acquisition complements BTGs Interventional Medicine platform, expanding it into the emerging area of Interventional Pulmonology.
At acquisition, intangible assets principally comprised 109.2m relating to RePneu Europe developed technology and 80.4m relating to RePneu US in-process research and development assets.
The estimated useful life of the developed technology is 15 years, and amortisation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising of 51.6m, which is not deductible for tax purposes, was assigned to the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
Goodwill includes the values of tax impacts, assembled workforce and future potential indications for RePneu which at the time of acquisition did not meet the criteria for recognition as separate intangible assets.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, BTG may be due to make further contingent consideration payments dependent upon PneumRx achieving certain revenue targets and US FDA approval.
The contingent consideration payments include up to $20m payable if PneumRx meets a global revenue target in calendar year 2015 of US$35m and US$60m payable if US FDA approval is received before 31 December 2017.
During the year, no contingent consideration payments were made and 0.9m of discount unwind was recognised in the income statement.
The remaining contingent consideration payments on the Statement of Financial Position are considered by management to be a Level 3 financial instrument note 26.
Fair Value Book Value Adjustment Fair Value m m m Assets Non-current assets: Intangible assets 0.3 189.6 189.9 Property, plant & equipment 0.3 0.3 Current assets: Inventories 0.9 2.4 3.3 Trade and other receivables 2.6 2.6 Cash and cash equivalent 6.2 6.2 Liabilities Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 8.8 8.8 121 Non-current liabilities: Financials Net deferred tax liabilities 62.9 62.9 Assets acquired 1.5 129.1 130.6 Goodwill 51.6 Total assets acquired 182.2 Cash consideration paid 153.4 Contingent consideration 28.8 Total Consideration 182.2 Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 6.2 Cash consideration paid 153.4 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition and in cash flow statement 147.2 b Other acquisitions On 6 August 2014, the Group acquired the site and certain assets and processes associated with PEM manufacture from its existing contract manufacturing organisation, SCM Pharma Limited, for a consideration of approximately 0.5m plus transaction fees.
The Company expects to increase throughput through these assets to support the growth of the recently approved and launched Varithena.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32. Business Combinations continued Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2014 In July 2013, BTG completed the acquisitions of EKOS Corporation EKOS and the Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. c EKOS Corporation EKOS BTG completed the acquisition of 100% of EKOS on 5 July 2013 for an initial cash consideration of 118.7m $178.8m and up to $40m in contingent consideration based upon future performance milestones.
The contingent consideration had a carrying value equal to its fair value of 17.5m using acquisition date trading assumptions and forecasts to assess the likelihood of payments to be made.
The purchase price allocation is deemed final and there have been no adjustments to the preliminary assessment of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
EKOS owns, manufactures and distributes the EkoSonic Endovascular System EkoSonic, a differentiated interventional medicine product using a locoregional approach in the treatment of severe blood clots.
EkoSonic is cleared for use in the US and the EU.
The acquisition is a complementary transaction in line with BTGs existing strategy of growing its Interventional Medicine business, following its acquisition of Biocompatibles International plc in 2011.
At acquisition, intangible assets principally comprised 123.2m relating to EkoSonic developed technology.
The fair value of this asset was estimated using an income approach, using the excess earnings method.
The estimated useful life of the technology was 15 years, and amortisation expense is recorded on a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising of 47.8m, which is not deductible for tax purposes, was assigned to the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
Goodwill includes the values of tax impacts, assembled workforce and future potential indications for EkoSonic which at the time of acquisition did not meet the criteria for recognition as separate intangible assets.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, BTG may be due to make further contingent payments dependent upon EKOS achieving certain revenue targets.
These comprise up to $20m payable in respect of 2013 and up to $20m payable in respect of 2014 and 2015 in aggregate.
Total contingent payments will not exceed $40m.
During the year BTG paid the contingent payment in respect of 2014 of $5.4m 3.5m 2014: in respect of 2013 $20.0m, 11.9m.
The remaining contingent payment on the Statement of Financial Position is considered by management to be a Level 3 financial instrument note 26.
Fair Value Book Value Adjustment Fair Value m m m Assets Non-current assets: Intangible assets 0.1 123.2 123.3 Property, plant & equipment 1.4 1.4 Current assets: Inventories 2.7 1.9 4.6 Trade and other receivables 3.0 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents 3.1 3.1 Liabilities Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 4.8 4.8 Non-current liabilities: Trade and other payables 0.4 0.4 122 Deferred tax liabilities 41.8 41.8 Assets acquired 5.1 83.3 88.4 Financials Goodwill 47.8 Total assets acquired 136.2 Cash consideration paid 118.7 Contingent consideration 17.5 Total Consideration 136.2 Cash and cash equivalents included in undertaking acquired 3.1 Cash consideration paid 118.7 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition and in cash flow statement 115.6 d Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. On the 13 July 2013, BTG completed the acquisition of the Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. for a total cash consideration of 132.8m $200.8m.
Targeted Therapies is a high growth business that is focused in utilising TheraSphere for targeted interventional treatment of liver cancer.
TheraSphere is a product comprising radioactive glass beads which target the tumour from within the body with a high concentration of radiation, thereby limiting both damage to surrounding healthy tissue and side effects for the patient in comparison to externally delivered radiation.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 At acquisition, intangible assets comprised 104.6m relating to Targeted Therapies developed technology and 17.6m relating to in-process research and development assets.
The fair value of these assets was estimated using an income approach, using the excess earnings method.
Goodwill arising of 23.3m, which is not deductible for tax purposes, was assigned to the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
Goodwill includes the values of tax impacts and assembled workforce.
Fair Value Book Value Adjustment Fair Value m m m Assets Non-current assets: Intangible assets 122.2 122.2 Current assets: Inventories 0.6 0.6 Trade and other receivables 5.8 5.8 Liabilities Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 1.7 1.7 Non-current liabilities: Deferred tax liabilities 17.4 17.4 Assets acquired 4.7 104.8 109.5 Goodwill 23.3 Total consideration 132.8 Cash paid 132.8 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition and in cash flow statement 132.8 Revenue and Profit Impact of acquisitions During the year ended 31 March 2015, PneumRx Inc. contributed revenues of 2.3m and an operating loss before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of 2.7m in the period since acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 April 2014, the first day of the reporting period under review, revenue and profit before tax and before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of the combined group would have been 379.1m and 64.2m respectively.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, EKOS contributed revenues of 20.3m and operating profit before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of 2.3m in the period since acquisition.
The Targeted Therapies division of Nordion Inc. contributed revenues of 24.7m and operating profit before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of 7.3m in the period since acquisition.
If both acquisitions had taken place on 1 April 2013, the first day of the reporting period under review, revenue and profit before tax and before acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs of the combined group would have been 306.7m and 73.3m respectively.
Post balance sheets events In May 2015, BTG purchased the residual financial interest of the originator of the Varithena foam sclerotherapy technology for a one-off cash payment of 23m, ensuring that the business retains 100% of the future value of Varithena.
