Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued VAT and duty disputes 30 Contingent liabilities and financial Bangladesh commitments continued The operating company is in receipt of a retrospective notice of The Group believes that the Groups companies have meritorious imposition and realisation of VAT and supplementary duty on low defences in law and fact in each of the above matters and intends price category brands from the National Board of Revenue NBR for to pursue each dispute through the judicial system as necessary.
The company is alleged to have evaded The Group does not consider it appropriate to make provision for these tax by selling the products in the low price segments rather than amounts assessed nor for any potential further amounts which may be the mid-tier price segments.
Management believe that the claims assessed in subsequent years.
While the amounts that may be payable or receivable in relation Litigation has proceeded during 2015.
The issue is currently awaiting to tax disputes could be material to the results or cash flows of the outcome from the High Court, and a 10% deposit may have to be Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Board does paid during 2016 in order to pursue any appeal.
not expect these amounts to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
Operating leases Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise leases where payments fall due: 2015 2014 m m Property Within one year 51 52 Between one and five years 102 117 Beyond five years 48 25 201 194 Plant and equipment Within one year 19 24 Between one and five years 26 40 45 64 Performance guarantees As shown in note 26 a as part of the acquisition of TDR, the Group has committed to keeping the manufacturing facility in Kanfanar, Croatia operational for at least five years following completion of the acquisition.
A similar commitment has been given in respect of the packaging plant in Rovinj, Croatia.
The maximum exposure under these guarantees is 38 million.
31 Interests in subsidiaries Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests principally arise from the Groups listed investment in Malaysia British American Tobacco Malaysia Berhad where the Group held 50% of the listed holding company in both 2015 and 2014.
The Group has assessed that it exercises fide facto control over Malaysia as it has the practical ability to direct the business through effective control of the companys board as a result of the Group controlling the largest shareholding block in comparison to other shareholdings which are widely dispersed.
Summarised financial information for Malaysia is shown below as required by IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
As part of the Groups reporting processes, Malaysia report consolidated financial information for the Malaysia group which has been adjusted to comply with Group accounting policies which may differ to local accounting practice.
Goodwill in respect of Malaysia, which arose as a result of the acquisition of the Rothmans group referred to in note 9, has not been included as part of the net assets below.
No adjustments have been made to the information below for the elimination of inter-company transactions and balances with the rest of the Group.
The Group also held 75% of the listed investment in Brazil Souza Cruz in 2014 but acquired substantially all of the non-controlling interests in 2015 see note 26.
Financial information for the Souza Cruz Group is not presented as it no longer has a material non-controlling interest.
202 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
