Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 9.
Included in the US Litigation section below are all significant cases 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments where B&W and or a UK company is named as a defendant and 1.
The Group is subject to contingencies pursuant to requirements all cases where RJRT is named as a defendant as a successor to that it complies with relevant laws, regulations and standards.
The RJRT Successor Cases are 2.
Failure to comply could result in restrictions in operations, covered by the RJRT Indemnification.
damages, fines, increased tax, increased cost of compliance, US litigation interest charges, reputational damage or other sanctions.
The total number of US product liability cases pending at These matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
In cases where 31 December 2015 involving B&W was approximately 5,237 the Group has an obligation as a result of a past event existing at compared to approximately 6,057 in 2014.
Of these, 2,236 the balance sheet date, it is probable that an outflow of economic cases are RJRT Successor Cases.
For all of the 5,237 cases involving resources will be required to settle the obligation and if the amount B&W, British American Tobacco Group companies have the of the obligation can be reliably estimated, a provision will be protection of the RJRT Indemnification.
As at 31 December 2015, recognised based on best estimates and management judgement.
British American Tobacco Investments Limited Investments has 3.
There are, however, contingent liabilities in respect of litigation, been served as a co-defendant in one of those cases compared taxes in some countries and guarantees for which no provisions to one in 2014.
No other UK-based Group company has have been made.
been served as a co-defendant in any US product liability case pending as at 31 December 2015.
Since many of these pending General litigation cases seek unspecified damages, it is not possible to quantify Product liability litigation the total amounts being claimed, but the aggregate amounts 4.
Group companies, notably Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. involved in such litigation are significant, possibly totalling formerly Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation B&W as billions of US dollars.
The cases fall into four broad categories: well as other leading cigarette manufacturers, are defendants in medical reimbursement cases: class actions: individual cases and a number of product liability cases.
In a number of these cases, other claims.
the amounts of compensatory and punitive damages sought a Medical reimbursement cases are significant.
These civil actions seek to recover amounts spent by government Indemnity entities and other third-party providers on healthcare and welfare 5.
On 30 July 2004, B&W completed the combination of the assets, costs claimed to result from illnesses associated with smoking.
liabilities and operations of its US tobacco business with R. J.
At 31 December 2015, one US medical reimbursement suit was Reynolds Tobacco Company RJRT, a wholly-owned subsidiary pending against B&W by an Indian tribe in an Indian tribal court in of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc. pursuant to which South Dakota.
No other suits are pending against B&W by county Reynolds American Inc. was formed the Business Combination.
or other political subdivisions of the states.
As part of the Business Combination, B&W contributed to RJRT all of the assets and liabilities of its US cigarette and tobacco b Class actions business, subject to specified exceptions, in exchange for a 42%.
At 31 December 2015, B&W was named as a defendant in five equity ownership interest in Reynolds American Inc. separate actions attempting to assert claims on behalf of classes of persons allegedly injured or financially impacted through smoking 6.
As a result of the Business Combination, RJRT assumed all liabilities or where classes of tobacco claimants have been certified.
If the of B&W except liabilities to the extent relating to businesses classes are or remain certified and the possibility of class-based and assets not contributed by B&W to RJRT and other limited liability is eventually established, it is likely that individual trials categories of liabilities and contributed subsidiaries or otherwise will be necessary to resolve any claims by individual plaintiffs.
to the extent related to B&Ws tobacco business as conducted Class action suits have been filed in a number of states against in the US on or prior to 30 July 2004.
In addition, RJRT agreed to individual cigarette manufacturers and their parent corporations, indemnify B&W and each of its associates other than Reynolds alleging that the use of the terms lights and ultralights American Inc. and its subsidiaries against, among other matters, constitutes unfair and deceptive trade practices: all losses including those arising from Environmental Tobacco Smoke ETS claims, liabilities, damages, expenses, judgments, a Black is a lights class action filed in November 2000, which attorneys fees, etc.
to the extent relating to or arising from such in 2008, the Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri stayed assumed liabilities or the assets contributed by B&W to RJRT the pending US Supreme Court review in Good v Altria Group, Inc. RJRT Indemnification.
A status conference is scheduled for 22 February 2016.
The scope of the RJRT Indemnification includes all expenses b Howard is a lights class action filed in February 2000 in and contingent liabilities in connection with litigation to the the Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, currently stayed extent relating to or arising from B&Ws US tobacco business as pending resolution of Price v Philip Morris, Inc. conducted on or prior to 30 July 2004, including smoking and c Jones is a case filed in December 1998 in the Circuit Court, health tobacco litigation, whether the litigation is commenced Jackson County, Missouri: the action was brought by tobacco before or after 30 July 2004 the Tobacco Litigation.
product users and purchasers on behalf of all similarly situated 8.
Pursuant to the terms of the RJRT Indemnification, RJRT is liable for Missouri consumers alleging that the plaintiffs use of the any possible judgments, the posting of appeal bonds or security, defendants tobacco products has caused them to become and all other expenses of and responsibility for managing the addicted to nicotine, and seek an unspecified amount of defence of the Tobacco Litigation.
RJRT has assumed control of the compensatory and punitive damages.
There has been limited defence of the Tobacco Litigation involving B&W, to which RJRT is activity in this case.
also a party in most but not all of the same cases.
192 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 14.
In Engle a case in Florida, a jury awarded a total of 30 Contingent liabilities and financial US$12.7 million to three class representatives, and in a later commitments continued stage of the three-phase trial procedure adopted in this case, a d Parsons is a case filed in February 1998 in the Circuit Court, jury assessed US$17.6 billion in punitive damages against B&W.
Ohio County, West Virginia currently stayed pending final On 21 May 2003, the intermediate appellate court reversed the resolution of a motion brought by the plaintiffs, and because trial courts judgment and remanded the case to the trial court three defendants filed bankruptcy petitions.
with instructions to fide-certify the class: this was upheld on 6 July 2006.
Further, the Florida Supreme Court permitted the judgments e Young is a case filed in November 1997 in the Circuit Court, entered for two of the three Engle class representatives to stand, Orleans Parish, Louisiana.
This Environmental Tobacco Smoke but dismissed the judgment entered in favour of the third Engle ETS class action on behalf of all residents of Louisiana who, class representative.
Finally, the Florida Supreme Court permitted though not themselves cigarette smokers, have been exposed putative Engle class members to file individual lawsuits against to second-hand smoke from cigarettes manufactured by the the Engle defendants within one year of the Courts decision defendants, and who allegedly suffered injury as a result of that subsequently extended to 11 January 2008. exposure, seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory and punitive damages, and has been stayed since 2004.
Engle progeny cases, as at 31 December 2015: Engle progeny cases in which B&W has been Engle progeny cases in which RJRT is served both state and federal courts in Florida named as a successor to B&W Number of cases 38 2,224 Number of plaintiffs 94 2,902 16.
Phase three trials of individual Engle class members, as at 31 December 2015: Additional Phase three Engle Trials naming RJRT as successor to B&W proceeding to verdict Total number of trials 95 Number of trials resulting in plaintiffs verdicts 55 Total damages awarded in final judgments against RJRT as successor to B&W approximately US$262,199,662 Amount of overall damages comprising compensatory damages approximately US$141,294,246 of overall US$262,199,662 Amount of overall damages comprising punitive damages approximately US$120,905,416 of overall US$262,199,662 Number of adverse judgments appealed by RJRT 40 Number of adverse judgments not yet appealed, in which RJRT still has time to file an appeal 11 Of the 40 adverse judgments appealed by RJRT, 25 were decided and or closed, and 15 appeals remain undecided including three that have petitions for review pending in the Florida Supreme Court.
In three of the appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate court affirmed the liability finding but vacated the damages award and remanded the matter to the trial court.
In three of the appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate courts reversed the final judgment and remanded the matter to the trial court for a new trial on all issues.
In another 18 appeals that were decided, the Florida intermediate appellate courts affirmed final judgments in favour of plaintiffs.
One appeal was voluntarily dismissed.
RJRT has paid damages to plaintiffs in 15 cases that are now closed.
In June 2009, the Florida legislature amended its existing bond cap Court the question of whether the bond cap violates the Florida statute by adding a US$200 million bond cap that applies to all Constitution.
The Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction over phase three Engle progeny cases in the aggregate and establishing the issue of the constitutionality of the bond cap on 23 January individual bond caps for individual cases in amounts that vary 2012.
On 31 August 2012, the Florida Supreme Court entered an depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.
order dismissing this case based on RJRTs mootness argument.
In May 2011, Florida removed the provision in this legislation that Plaintiff subsequently moved for a rehearing.
On 12 October 2012, would have permitted this bond cap to expire on 31 December the Florida Supreme Court denied plaintiffs motion.
Plaintiffs in several Engle progeny cases have unsuccessfully not file a petition for writ of certiorari to the United States challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap.
One of these Supreme Court.
appellate courts has since certified to the Florida Supreme British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 193 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued c Individual cases Total number As at the: ofcases 31 December 2014 3,052 31 December 2015 2,995 2,499 ETS cases brought by flight attendants who were members of a class action Broin that was settled on terms that allow compensatory butnotpunitive damages claims by class members 394 Cases brought in consolidated proceedings in West Virginia, where the firstphase of the trial began on 15 April 2013 and on 15 May 2013 thejuryreturned a verdict for defendants on all but one of plaintiffs claims:the verdict is currently on appeal 38 Engle progeny cases that have been filed directly against B&W pleaseseeearlier table in paragraph 15 64 Cases filed by other individuals In addition to the 2,224 Engle progeny cases which name RJRT as successor to B&W, there are 12 cases filed by other individuals naming RJRT as successor to B&W.
These cases are subject to the RJRT Indemnification and are not detailed here.
In the Daric Smith case, purchasers of cigarettes in the state of 22.
In August 2007, the So Paulo Public Prosecutors Office Kansas brought a conspiracy price fixing class action in the Kansas filed a medical reimbursement claim against Souza Cruz S. A.
State Court against B&W, Investments and certain other tobacco Souza Cruz.
A similar claim was lodged against Philip Morris.
companies seeking injunctive relief, treble damages, interest and On 4 October 2011, the Court dismissed the action against Souza costs.
On 26 March 2012, the Court dismissed the plaintiffs Cruz, with a judgment on the merits.
The plaintiff filed an appeal first amended petition with prejudice.
On appeal, the Court of on 9 January 2012 and Souza Cruz filed its counter arguments Appeals of Kansas, on 18 July 2014, affirmed the trial courts order.
On 23 April 2013, the Justices of the 2nd On 29 June 2015, the Supreme Court of Kansas denied plaintiffs Civil Chamber of the Court of Appeals of the State of So Paulo, petition for review.
The case is now closed and will be removed by unanimous vote 3 to 0, denied the appeal of the Prosecution from future reports.
Office, thereby confirming the favourable Lower Court ruling.
The Public Prosecutors Office has filed a Special Appeal.
As at 31 December 2015, Investments has been served in one Canada dormant individual action in the US Perry in which there has 23.
In Canada there are 10 active statutory actions for recovery of been no activity since 1998 following the plaintiffs death in 1997. healthcare costs arising from the treatment of smoking and health-related diseases.
These proceedings name various Group Product liability outside the United States companies as defendants, including the Company, Investments, 20.
As at 31 December 2015, active product liability claims against B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Industries, Carreras Rothmans Limited the Groups companies existed in 14 markets outside the US collectively the UK Companies and Imperial Tobacco Canada 2014: 15 but the only markets with more than five claims Limited Imperial, the Groups operating company in Canada.
were Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Italy and Nigeria.
As at Legislation enabling provincial governments to recover the 31 December 2015, medical reimbursement actions are being healthcare costs has been enacted in all 10 provinces and two of brought in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Nigeria and South Korea.
three territories in Canada and has been proclaimed in force in a Medical reimbursement cases 10 provinces.
The Acts have received Royal Assent in Northwest Argentina Territories and Nunavut but have yet to be proclaimed into force.
In 2007, the non-governmental organisation the Argentina Tort Actions have begun against various Group companies, including Law Association ATLA and Emma Mendoza Voguet brought Imperial, in British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and a reimbursement action against Nobleza Piccardo S. A. I. C. y F. Labrador, Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Nobleza and Massaln Particulares.
The case is being heard Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island PEI.
In Quebec, three in the Contentious Administrative Court and is currently at the Canadian manufacturers, including Imperial, challenged the evidentiary stage.
One other manufacturer is seeking leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
194 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Cases pending against B&W which were filed by or on behalf of individuals and in which it is contended that diseases or deaths have been caused by cigarette smoking orby exposure to ETS Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 24.
Act pursuant to which Companies named as Canadian province claimwas brought defendants and date served Current stage British Columbia Tobacco Damages Imperial.
The underlying medical reimbursement action remains at a preliminary and Health Care Costs case management stage.
Damages have not been quantified by the Investments.
The federal government has commenced a cost assessment Industries.
in connection with the motion and appeals relating to the federal government claim, seeking CAD$5 million jointly from all the defendants Other former Rothmans and an additional CAD$5 million from Imperial.
No hearing date has Group companies.
New Brunswick Tobacco Damages The UK Companies Both Imperial and the UK Companies have now filed their defences and and Health Care Costs have all been named document production by the defendants is substantially complete.
A first Recovery Act 2006 as defendants.
round of oral discoveries of the province began in September 2014 and a second round will continue at least through the end of Q2 of 2016.
Imperial and the UK Damages have been quantified at CAD$19 billion.
No trial date has Companies have all been set.
Ontario Tobacco Damages The UK Companies Following the Supreme Court of Canadas dismissal of the jurisdiction and Health Care Costs have all been named leave application, the case is under case management.
Third-party notices Recovery Act 2009 as defendants.
against the federal government have been discontinued.
Claims against several native manufacturers were filed but are in abeyance.
The province Imperial and the UK has stated its claim to be worth CAD$50 billion.
No trial date has been set.
Companies have all been served.
Newfoundland Tobacco Health The UK Companies Particulars and other preliminary motions were filed on 16 January and Labrador Care Costs Recovery have all been named 2015, and a case management conference took place on 22 January Act 2006 as defendants.
The hearing on the preliminary motions took place on 46 March 2015.
On 22 December 2015, the Court ordered some particulars to be Imperial and the UK provided but did not set a date for compliance.
Damages have not been Companies have all quantified by the province.
Saskatchewan Tobacco Damages The UK Companies This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement and Health Care Costs have all been named was negotiated under which defences were filed by 27 February 2015 and Recovery Act 2012 as defendants.
the matter will remain in abeyance until document production begins in September 2017.
Damages have not been quantified by the province.
Imperial and the UK Companies have all been served.
This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement has Health Care Costs been negotiated, under which defences were filed and the matter will Investments.
Recovery Act 2006 remain in abeyance until document production begins in January 2017.
Other former Rothmans Group companies.
Alberta Crowns Right of Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage.
Following particulars Recovery Act 2009 Companies have all been motions in January 2015, the province provided certain particulars in named as defendants and October 2015.
Defences are to be filed by March 2016 and replies and served.
document production are to follow.
The next case management hearing is set for 12 April 2016.
The province has stated its claim to be worth CAD$10 billion.
Quebec Tobacco Related Investments, Industries, On 25 August 2009, Imperial and the other Canadian manufacturers filed Damages and Health and Carreras Rothmans a constitutional challenge to the Quebec Medicaid Legislation.
This claim Care Costs Recovery Limited have been was dismissed and a further appeal heard on 18 June 2015 was also Act 2005 named as defendants.
Another manufacturer has sought leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
This case is at an early case management Imperial and the UK stage.
Motions over admissibility of documents Companies have and damages discovery have been filed but not heard.
The province is been served.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 195 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 30 Contingent liabilities and financial commitments continued 24. continued Act pursuant to which Companies named as Canadian province claimwas brought defendants and date served Current stage Prince Edward Tobacco Damages and Imperial and the UK This case is at an early case management stage.
A standstill agreement has Island Health Care Costs Companies.
Defences were filed in February 2015 and the next step Recovery Act 2009 will be document production, which will commence in September 2017.
Nova Scotia Tobacco Health Care Imperial and the UK On 22 January 2015, Imperial and the UK Companies were served with Costs Recovery Act Companies.
the Nova Scotia Medicaid suit.
This case is at an early case management 2005 stage.
A standstill agreement has been negotiated.
Defences were filed in July 2015 and the next step will be document production, which will commence on or before 1 September 2017.
As at 31 December 2015, six medical reimbursement actions Brazil filed by the federal government and five Nigerian states Lagos, 28.
There are currently two class actions being brought in Brazil.
One is Kano, Gombe, Oyo, Ogun were pending in the Nigerian courts.
also a medical reimbursement claim So Paulo Public Prosecutors British American Tobacco Nigeria Limited BAT Nigeria, the Office, and is therefore discussed above.
Company and Investments have been named as defendants 29.
In 1995, the Associao fide Defesa da Sade do Fumante ADESF in each of the cases.
The plaintiffs in the six cases seek a total class action was filed against Souza Cruz and Philip Morris in of approximately 38 billion in damages, including special, the So Paulo Lower Civil Court alleging that the defendants are anticipatory and punitive damages, restitution and disgorgement liable to a class of smokers and former smokers for failing to warn of profits, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
The case was stayed in 2004 pending the 26.
The Company and Investments have made a number of challenges defendants appeal from a decision issued by the Lower Civil Court to the jurisdiction of the Nigerian courts.
Such challenges are that held that the defendants had not met their burden of proving still pending on appeal against the federal government and that cigarette smoking was not addictive or harmful to health, the states of Lagos, Kano, Gombe and Ogun.
In the state of notwithstanding an earlier interlocutory order that the So Paulo Oyo, on 13 November 2015, the Companys jurisdictional Court of Appeals had issued, which directed the trial court to allow challenge was successful in the Court of Appeal and the issuance more evidence to be taken before rendering its decision.
of the writ of summons was set aside.
On 12 November 2008, the So Paulo Court of Appeals are stayed or adjourned pending the final outcome of these overturned the lower courts unfavourable decision of 2004, jurisdictional challenges.
returning the case to the lower court for production of evidence South Korea and a new judgment.
Following production of evidence, on 27.
In April 2014, Koreas National Health Insurance Service NHIS 16 May 2011, the lower court granted Souza Cruzs motion filed a healthcare recoupment action against KT&G the stateto dismiss the action in its entirety on the merits.
Plaintiffs filed owned former monopoly, PM Korea and BAT Korea including an appeal of the dismissal on 22 July 2011.
Souza Cruz filed its BAT Korea Manufacturing.
The lawsuit relates to healthcare costs response on 5 October 2011.
On 6 September 2012, the case allegedly incurred by the NHIS treating patients with lung small was assigned to a new temporary Reporting Justice in the 7th cell and squamous cell and laryngeal cancer between 2003 and Chamber of Private Law of the So Paulo Court of Appeals, 2012.
The claim is based on allegations of defective design, failure pending reference to a permanent Reporting Justice of the to warn, fraud misrepresentation, marketing to youth, use of case.
On 10 October 2013, a Reporting Justice of the case was additives and causing addiction.
The NHIS is seeking damages of designated.
The So Paulo Court of Appeals ruled in favour of roughly 32 million from the defendants.
Court hearings in the defendants in February 2015.
Plaintiff has filed a special appeal to case, which constitute the trial, commenced in September 2014 the Superior Court of Justice.
On 27 November 2015, Souza Cruz and remain ongoing.
filed its response to the appeal, which remains pending.
There are 10 class actions being brought in Canada against Group companies.
Knight is a lights class action in which the plaintiff alleges that the marketing of light and mild cigarettes is deceptive because it conveys a false and misleading message that those cigarettes are less harmful than regular cigarettes.
Although the claim arises from health concerns, it does not seek compensation for personal injury.
Instead it seeks compensation for amounts spent on light and mild products and a disgorgement of profits from Imperial.
196 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 36.
In June 2009, four new smoking and health class actions were 30 Contingent liabilities and financial filed in Nova Scotia, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, against commitments continued Canadian and foreign manufacturers and foreign companies, 33.
The Supreme Court of British Columbia certified a class of all including the UK Companies and Imperial.
In Saskatchewan, the consumers who purchased in British Columbia Imperial cigarettes Company and Carreras Rothmans Limited have been released bearing light or mild descriptors since 1974.
Whilst the appellate from the action.
No date has been set for the certification motion court confirmed the certification of the class, on appeal it limited hearing.
There are service issues in relation to the UK Companies in any financial liability, if proven, to 1997 onward.
third-party claim against the federal government was dismissed by 37.
In July 2010, two further smoking and health class actions in the Supreme Court of Canada.
The federal government is seeking British Columbia were served on Imperial and the UK Companies.
a parallel cost order in this action as it is in the British Columbia The Bourassa claim is allegedly on behalf of all individuals who government recoupment case.
Knight has otherwise been dormant have suffered chronic respiratory disease and the McDermid claim for several years.
proposes a class based on heart disease.
On 9 December 2009, Imperial was served with a class action filed they have been brought on behalf of those who have smoked by Ontario tobacco farmers and the Ontario Flue-Cured Tobacco a minimum of 25,000 cigarettes.
The UK Companies objected Growers Marketing Board Growers claim.
The plaintiffs allege to jurisdiction.
Subsequently, the Company was released from that, during a specific timeframe, Imperial and two other domestic Bourassa and McDermid.
Industries and Investments remain as defendants improperly paid lower prices for tobacco leaf destined defendants in both actions.
No certification motion hearing date for duty-free products and then were smuggled back into Canada has been set.
Plaintiffs were due to deliver certification motion and sold in the domestic market.
As a preliminary challenge materials by 31 January 2015, but have not yet done so.
Once the Imperial, and the other domestic defendants, alleged that the materials are delivered, the motions regarding abuse of process will Growers claim is time barred.
By decision dated 30 June 2014, be dealt with.
the Court dismissed the preliminary challenge.
In June 2012, a new smoking and health class action was domestic defendants sought leave to appeal that decision, and filed in Ontario against the domestic manufacturers and leave was granted on 14 January 2015.
The appeal is scheduled foreign companies, including Imperial and the UK Companies.
If Imperial is ultimately successful, the Imperial was served on 20 November 2012, and the UK Growers claim will be dismissed: if not successful, the action will Companies were served on 30 November 2012.
The claim is proceed to a class action certification hearing.
There are currently two class actions in Quebec.
On 21 February Italy 2005, the Quebec Superior Court granted certification in two class 39.
In or about June 2010, BAT Italia was served with a class action actions against Imperial and two other domestic manufacturers, filed in the Civil Court of Rome by the consumer association, which have a combined value of CAD$21 billion plus interest and Codacons, and three class representatives.
The Court certified two classes, which include residents of asserted addiction-related claims.
The class action lawsuit was Quebec who suffered from lung, throat and laryngeal cancer or rejected at the first instance Civil Court of Rome and appellate emphysema as of November 1998 or developed these diseases Rome Court of Appeal court levels.
In July 2012, Codacons thereafter and who smoked a minimum of 15 cigarettes a day for filed an appeal before the Italian Supreme Court.
At a hearing at least five years, and residents who were addicted to nicotine at on 21 January 2015, the Public Prosecutors Office agreed that the time the proceedings were filed and who have since remained the appeal should be rejected, and the Supreme Court reserved addicted.
The trial in this matter commenced on 12 March 2012 its decision with no firm date for issuing judgment.
A hearing of and was completed in December 2014.
Judgment was rendered procedural issues took place on 26 January 2016 and a decision on on 27 May 2015.
It awarded moral and punitive damages these issues is pending.
and interest against Imperial and the Canadian subsidiaries of Philip Morris International and Japan Tobacco International in Venezuela the amount of CAD$15.6 billion, of which Imperials share is 40.
In April 2008, the Venezuelan Federation of Associations of Users CAD$10.4 billion.
An appeal of the judgment was filed on 26 June and Consumers FEVACU and Wolfang Cardozo Espinel and 2015.
It also awarded provisional execution pending appeal of Giorgio Di Muro Di Nunno, acting as individuals, filed a class CAD$1.131 billion, of which Imperials share was approximately action against the Venezuelan government.
The class action CAD$742 million, which order was subsequently overturned by seeks regulatory controls on tobacco and recovery of medical the Court of Appeal.
Following the cancellation of the order for expenses for future expenses of treating smoking-related illnesses provisional execution, the Plaintiffs filed a motion against Imperial in Venezuela.
On 5 December 2012, C. A Cigarrera Bigott Sucs.
and one other manufacturer seeking security in the amount of Cigarrera Bigott was admitted as an opposing third-party by CAD$5 billion to guarantee, in whole or in part, the payment of the Constitutional Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice costs of the appeal and the judgment.
On 27 October 2015, the and presented its defences and evidence on 26 February 2013.
Court of Appeal ordered the parties to post security in the amount In February 2015, the Constitutional Chamber also admitted of CAD$984 million, of which Imperials share is CAD$758 million ASUELECTRIC, represented by its president Giorgio Di Muro Di to be paid in 7 equal quarterly instalments.
The first instalment, Nunno who had previously filed as an individual, as a third-party.
of just over CAD$108 million, was paid on 30 December 2015.
ASUELECTRIC has petitioned the Constitutional Chamber on a Imperial filed its Factum on Appeal on 11 December 2015 and the number of occasions, requesting that it set a date for a hearing: appeal is scheduled for November 2016. however, a hearing date is yet to be scheduled.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 197 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 45.
On 8 August 2014, the Company was named as a defendant 30 Contingent liabilities and financial in an action in state court in North Carolina stemming from the commitments continued announcement of the Lorillard Transaction.
The action was brought c Individual personal injury claims on behalf of a putative class of Reynolds shareholders alleging 41.
As at 31 December 2015, the jurisdictions with the most number that the Company is a controlling shareholder of Reynolds and of active individual cases against Group companies were, in breached its fiduciary duty to the other Reynolds shareholders.
descending order: Brazil 101, Italy 22, Argentina 19, Chile 46.
On 8 December 2014, the Company moved to dismiss the 11, Canada 5 and Ireland 2.
There were a further four Amended Complaint.
On 28 August 2015, the court issued an jurisdictions with one active case only.
order dismissing all claims against the Company.
Among other Non-tobacco related litigation things, the court found that the plaintiff had not properly alleged Flintkote that the Company was a controlling shareholder of Reynolds 42.
The Flintkote Company Flintkote, a US company formerly and therefore that the Company did not owe a fiduciary duty to engaged in the production and sale of asbestos-containing Reynolds other shareholders.
On 3 September 2015, the plaintiff products, was included in the acquisition of Genstar Corporation filed a notice of appeal.
On 11 January 2016, the plaintiff filed by Imasco Limited in 1986 and became a Group subsidiary its opening brief.
The appeal remains pending, and briefing is following the restructuring of Imasco Limited now Imperial scheduled to be complete by February 2016.
Tobacco Canada Limited Imperial, the Groups operating Khosravi company in Canada in 2000.
In January 2014, an individual named Mehdi Khosravi issued Flintkote and then, in 2004, Flintkote filed for bankruptcy in a claim in the English High Court against the Company, as the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware.
well as Al Aqili Trading LLC, Mohammed Saleh Al Aqili and In 2006, Flintkote, representatives of both the present and future Mohammed Saeed Mohamed Al Aqili the Al Aqili Defendants.
asbestos plaintiffs collectively, the Flintkote Plaintiffs, and After obtaining multiple extensions of time for service, in certain individual asbestos plaintiffs the Hopkins Plaintiffs September 2015, the claimant amended his claim to join B.
A. T were permitted by the Bankruptcy Court to file a complaint in U. K. and Export Limited and B.
A. T. Pars Company as defendants the California State Court against Imperial and numerous other and served the claim on the Company and B.
A. T U. K. and Export defendants, for the recovery of certain dividends declared by Limited the BAT UK Defendants.
A. T. Pars Company has not Flintkote in 1986 and 1987, and other compensation under various been served with the claim and therefore is currently not an active legal and equitable theories.
Following extensive discovery and a series of bench trials over 48.
The claimant sought damages of up to 1.5 billion for alleged a multi-year period, the Court narrowed the claims that might personal injuries and economic loss which, he alleged, were ultimately go to trial, but Flintkote and the Hopkins Plaintiffs caused by the Al Aqili Defendants acting as agents for BAT and continued to pursue substantial claims against Imperial.
or for which BAT was vicariously liable.
The BAT UK Defendants On 17 December 2014, following a series of formal mediation applied for the orders granting extensions of time for service to sessions and other negotiations, Imperial and the Flintkote Plaintiffs be set aside, as well as for the claim to be struck out or dismissed executed a settlement agreement.
In furtherance of this settlement, on summary judgment.
These applications were heard by a judge Imperial placed into escrow the required settlement payment on 8 and 11 December 2015.
On 28 January 2016, the judge of US$575 million.
The settlement was contingent upon further dismissed the case against the BAT UK Defendants and ordered documentation and approval of the United States Bankruptcy that the claimant should pay their legal costs.
The claimant was Court for the District of Delaware, where Flintkotes bankruptcy not given permission to appeal by the High Court but has until case remains pending, and the United States District Court for the 11 March 2016 to seek such permission from the Court of Appeal.
On 10 August 2015 and 13 August 2015, respectively, the Bankruptcy Court and the District Court entered Fox River orders approving the settlement and confirming Flintkotes plan of Background to environmental liabilities arising out of reorganisation, which implements the settlement.
The settlement contamination of the Fox River finally and completely resolves the existing Flintkote litigation, 49.
In Wisconsin, the authorities have identified potentially responsible including the claims of the Hopkins Plaintiffs, and Imperial and its parties PRPs to fund the clean-up of river sediments in the corporate affiliates obtained protections from any potential future lower Fox River.
The pollution was caused by discharges of litigation related to Flintkote.
The proceedings in the California Polychlorinated Biphenyls PCBs from paper mills and other State Court litigation, and all claims asserted therein, were facilities operating close to the river.
Among the PRPs is NCR dismissed on 14 December 2015.
The case is now closed and will Corporation NCR.
be removed from future reports.
There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the US Reynolds American, Inc. Lorillard, Inc.
Shareholder Litigation regarding the responsibility for the costs of the clean-up 44.
On 15 July 2014, Reynolds American, Inc. Reynolds announced operations.
This can be summarised as follows: that it had entered into a definitive merger agreement with a As regards the mid and lower portions of the Fox River: Lorillard, Inc. Lorillard, whereby Reynolds would acquire Lorillard in exchange for a combination of cash and Reynolds stock the i. NCR was initially made subject to an injunction filed by the Lorillard Transaction.
As part of this transaction, the Company US Government against it and Appvion Inc. Appvion in executed a Share Purchase Agreement to acquire a sufficient the courts of Wisconsin in 2012. number of Reynolds shares to maintain its 42% equity stake in ii.
A subsequent ruling by the same Court in April 2012 Reynolds after the merger.
found that Appvion was not a PRP, and the injunction was accordingly granted against NCR alone.
NCR sought to appeal this decision, but it was affirmed on 3 August 2012.
198 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements iii.
As a result, however, of the appellate court decision, the 30 Contingent liabilities and financial district court reconsidered its previous position and on commitments continued 3 March 2015 ruled that NCR was liable for the upper iii.
A full trial of the merits of the US Governments application portion of the Fox River.
That notwithstanding, the district for a permanent injunction took place in December court has since indicated that NCR had no liability for 2012 and the Court entered a permanent injunction that portion of the river because it did not discharge against NCR.
On 1 May 2013, the Wisconsin Court ruled that the 51.
In NCRs Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended pollution in the Fox River is not divisible.
In a series of 31 December 2014, the total clean-up costs for the Fox River rulings, the Wisconsin Court also held that NCR was not are estimated at US$825 million.
This estimate is subject to entitled to recover any amounts in contribution from other uncertainties and does not include natural resource damages PRPs and that the other PRPs were entitled to recover Fox NRDs.
In connection with a settlement entered by certain PRPs, River clean-up costs from NCR.
Cross-claims by Appvion the district court ceded to the Governments request to allow against other PRPs to recover its own Fox River related it to withdraw the NRD claims it has prosecuted on behalf of expenditures were rejected by the Wisconsin Court on NRD trustees, including those asserted against NCR.
As a result of these decisions NCR was found residual exposure to NRDs in the form of claims by other PRPs.
wholly responsible for the clean-up of those portions of the Previously, NCR had estimated that NRDs may range from US$0 river.
NCR and Appvion appealed against these decisions.
to US$246 million albeit the US Government in one court filing in 2009 indicated that natural resource damages could be as high as v. On 25 September 2014, the US Court of Appeals for the US$382 million.
Seventh Circuit: Industries involvement with environmental liabilities arising out of 1. vacated the decisions finding NCR wholly liable.
the contamination of the Fox River The Court remanded the case to the district court for 52.
Industries involvement with the environmental liabilities arises further consideration of defence of divisibility available out of indemnity arrangements which it became party to due to a to NCR.
The Court also vacated the permanent series of transactions that took place from the late-1970s onwards.
injunction against NCR, reasoning that such relief US authorities have never identified Industries or BATUS as PRPs.
In 1978, a subsidiary of Industries, later known as Appleton Papers 2. remanded the issue of contribution to the district Inc. and now known as Appvion, purchased what was then NCRs court for reconsideration.
The trial is currently set to Appleton Papers Division from NCR.
Under the terms of the commence in January 2017: and agreement, Industries and Appvion both provided indemnities 3. found that Appvion is entitled to bring actions against to NCR concerning certain environmental liabilities.
In 1978, other PRPs to recover its expenses, thereby reversing Industries also incorporated a US entity by the name of BATUS, the trial courts finding in relation to this.
Inc. BATUS, which in 1980 became the holding company for all of Industries US subsidiaries, including Appvion.
As a result therefore of the US Court of Appeals for the company, BATUS obtained insurance policies for itself and its Seventh Circuits decision, the district court initially held subsidiaries that included coverage for certain environmental that harm in Operable Unit 4 of the lower part of the liabilities.
Industries BATUS spun off the Appvion business in 1990 Fox River was divisible and hence that NCR should bear via a Demerger Agreement with Wiggins Teape Appleton p. l. c. responsibility for a 28% share.
However, the district court now known as Windward Prospects Ltd Windward, and Wiggins later reversed that decision on 19 October 2015 and Teape Appleton Holdings p. l. c. now known as Arjo Wiggins US has rejected a further attempt by NCR to reconsider that Holdings Ltd collectively, the AWA Entities, obtaining what ruling.
On 25 January 2016, the district court denied Industries believes were full indemnities from the AWA Entities and NCRs motion for an interlocutory appeal of its decision Appvion for past and future environmental claims.
As a consequence, NCR cannot appeal that decision until later in the proceedings.
Disputes between NCR, Appvion, and Industries as to the position is that NCR is wholly responsible for the costs of indemnities given and received under the original purchase cleaning-up of the mid and lower portions of the river.
agreement in 1978 have been the subject of litigation that was commenced in 1995, a settlement agreement effective from 1998 b As regards the upper portion of the Fox River: the Settlement Agreement, and an arbitration award in 2005. i.
In July 2012, the Wisconsin Court ruled that NCR was not NCR took the position that, under the terms of the Settlement liable for the clean-up costs in the upper portion of the Fox Agreement and the arbitration award, Industries and Appvion River.
This judgment considered whether NCR was liable generally had a joint and several obligation to bear 60% of the Fox as a result of the sale, by a predecessor of NCRs Appleton River environmental remediation costs imposed on NCR.
Until May Papers Division, of scrap paper, or broke, to other PRPs 2012, Appvion and the AWA Entities paid the 60% share of the which, in turn, discharged PCBs into the upper portion of clean-up costs and Industries was never required to contribute.
the river in the course of recycling the broke.
This order was made final on 27 June 2013. ii.
On 25 September 2014, the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit dismissed the other PRPs appeal against this order.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 199 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued 58.
Windward commenced a claim against Sequana and the former 30 Contingent liabilities and financial Windward directors in the High Court of England & Wales High commitments continued Court on 9 May 2014 concerning the dividend payments.
Litigation surrounding Windwards indemnities to Appvion and Industries filed its own direct claims seeking to recover the to Industries dividend payments from Sequana in December 2013.
The refusal of Appvion and Windward to continue to pay cleanand Windwards dividend payment claims the latter were assigned up costs after May 2012 led to NCR making the demands on to an Industries subsidiary, BTI 2014 LLC, as part of the Funding Industries referenced above.
Industries commenced proceedings Agreement are set down for trial before the High Court in against Windward and Appvion in the High Court of England February 2016.
& Wales the High Court in December 2011 concerning the 59.
BTI 2014 LLC has brought claims against certain of Windwards indemnity obligations under the 1990 Demerger Agreement and former advisors, including Windwards auditors at the time of the Settlement Agreement.
These proceedings were discontinued dividend payments,  LLP.
pursuant to the Funding Agreement, described below.
The sums Industries has agreed to pay under the Funding Funding Agreement of 30 September 2014 Agreement are subject to ongoing adjustment, as clean-up costs 56.
On 30 September 2014, Industries entered into the Funding can only be estimated in advance of the work being carried Agreement with Windward, Appvion, NCR and BTI 2014 LLC a out and as certain sums payable are the subject of ongoing US wholly-owned subsidiary of Industries.
Pursuant to the Funding litigation.
In 2014 and 2015, Industries paid 65 million in respect Agreement, the English Indemnity Proceedings and a counterclaim of clean-up costs and is potentially liable for a further 144 million Appvion had brought in those proceedings, as well as an NCRin future clean-up costs.
Industries has retained a provision of Appvion arbitration concerning Appvions indemnity to NCR, were 160 million which represents the current best estimate of its discontinued as part of an overall agreement between the parties exposure see note 22 Provisions.
providing a framework through which they would together fund the ongoing costs of the Fox River clean-up.
Under the agreement, Kalamazoo NCR has agreed to accept funding by BAT at the lower level of 61.
Industries is aware that NCR is also being pursued by Georgia- 50% of the ongoing clean-up related costs of the Fox River rather Pacific, as the owner of a facility on the Kalamazoo River in than the 60% referenced above: this remains subject to an ability Michigan which released PCBs into that river.
Georgia-Pacific has to litigate the extent to which a further 10% of the costs ought to been designated as a PRP in respect of the river.
be allocated at a later stage.
In addition Windward and Appvion 62.
Georgia-Pacific contends that NCR is responsible for, or should each committed to contribute to the funding Windward has contribute to, the clean-up costs, because: contributed US$10 million and Appvion will contribute up to a maximum of US$25 million respectively for each of Fox River and a a predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division sold broke Kalamazoo River see further below.
The parties have also agreed containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or others for recycling: to cooperate in order to maximise recoveries from certain claims b NCR itself sold paper containing PCBs to Georgia-Pacific or that exist against third parties, including those claims which exist others for recycling: and or against Windwards former shareholder, Sequana S. A. Sequana, Windwards former directors and Windwards former advisors in c NCR is liable for sales to Georgia-Pacific or others of PCBrelation to dividend payments made by Windward to Sequana containing broke by Mead Corporation, which, like the totalling over US$800 million in 2008 and 2009.
Any proceeds predecessor to NCRs Appleton Papers Division, coated paper resulting from third-party claims will be applied to meet river with the PCB containing emulsion manufactured by NCR.
clean-up costs first, thereby reducing Industries obligations under 63.
A full trial on liability took place in February 2013. the Funding Agreement and Industries then ranks first in the On 26 September 2013, the Michigan Court held that NCR agreed repayment waterfall should surplus remain.
Windward has was liable as a PRP on the basis that broke sales constituted provided Industries with an agreed direct indemnity to potentially an arrangement for the disposal of hazardous material for the cover shortfalls in recoveries by Industries against the amounts purposes of CERCLA.
The decision was based on NCRs knowledge paid out.
The Funding Agreement also assigned the claims which of the hazards of PCBs from at least 1969, but the Court did not Windward has against Sequana, as well as certain claims against specify directly the entity ies whose broke sales form the basis of former advisers to Windward, to BTI 2014 LLC.
NCR will have the ability to appeal the ruling once a 57.
Previously, Sequana sought to challenge Windwards ability final judgment has been entered or it has been otherwise certified to enter into the Funding Agreement on the basis of certain for appeal.
restrictions contained in Windwards articles of association.
As a consequence, Sequana also challenged the validity of the assignment by Windward to BTI 2014 LLC of certain claims belonging to Windward, including Windwards claim against Sequana and Windwards former directors.
Sequana ultimately dropped its challenge on 19 June 2015 meaning BTI 2014 LLC is now free to progress the various assigned claims.
200 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 67.
Having regard to all these matters, with the exception of Fox 30 Contingent liabilities and financial River, the Group i does not consider it appropriate to make any commitments continued provision in respect of any pending litigation: and ii does not 64.
The second phase of the Kalamazoo trial to determine the believe that the ultimate outcome of this litigation will significantly apportionment of liability amongst NCR, Georgia-Pacific and impair the Groups financial condition.
the other PRPs International Paper Company and Weyerhaeuser Tax disputes Company took place between September and December 2015.
Post-briefing submissions will run to 25 March 2016 and a The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a judgment is not expected until some time thereafter.
The court number of taxes.
The Group is and has been subject to a number of may or may not also rule on the allocation of future costs.
tax audits covering, among others, excise tax, value added taxes, sales Industries anticipates that NCR may seek to recover from Appvion taxes, corporate taxes, withholding taxes and payroll taxes.
subject to a cap of US$25 million for Future Sites under the The estimated costs of known tax obligations have been provided in Funding Agreement as described above and or Industries 60% these accounts in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
of any Kalamazoo clean-up costs for which it is found liable on the In some countries, tax law requires that full or part payment of basis, it would be asserted, that the river constitutes a Future Site disputed tax assessments be made pending resolution of the dispute.
for the purposes of the Settlement Agreement.
Industries believes To the extent that such payments exceed the estimated obligation, it may have defences to any such claim by NCR.
The Funding they would not be recognised as an expense.
Agreement described above does not resolve any such claims, but does provide an agreed mechanism pursuant to which any The following matters may proceed to litigation: surplus from the valuable recoveries of any third-party claims that Brazil remains after all Fox River related clean-up costs have been paid The Brazilian Federal Tax Authority has filed claims against Souza Cruz and Industries and NCR have been made whole may be applied seeking to reassess the profits of overseas subsidiaries to corporate towards Kalamazoo clean-up costs, in the event that NCR were to income tax and social contribution tax.
The first reassessment was be successful in any claim for a portion of them from Industries or for the years 2004-2006 in the sum of R$518 million 89 million to Appvion subject to Appvions cap.
The quantum of the clean-up cover tax, interest and penalties.
The second reassessment was for the costs for the Kalamazoo River is presently unclear as is the extent years 2007 and 2008 in the amount of R$271 million 46 million to of NCRs liability in respect of such costs, but could run into cover tax, interest and penalties.
hundreds of millions of dollars.
A witness on behalf of GeorgiaPacific testified in the trial concerning the apportionment of liability Souza Cruz appealed both reassessments.
Regarding the first that the cost of performing future remediation in Operable Unit assessment the Souza Cruz appeal was rejected in 2013 although the 5 of the Kalamazoo River was in the order of US$670 million.
written judgment of that tribunal is still awaited.
The appeal against Operable Unit 5 is the Kalamazoo River itself, as distinct from the the second assessment was upheld at the second tier tribunal and was other Operable Units which are landfills or other facilities adjoining closed.
In 2015 a further reassessment for the same period was raised the Kalamazoo River.
Remediation of these other Operable Units after the five-year statute of limitation.
This has been appealed and has largely been completed except for monitoring.
awaits review at the first tier tribunal.
As detailed above, Industries is taking active steps to protect its Souza Cruz received further reassessments in 2014 for the 2009 interests, including seeking to procure the repayment of the calendar year in the sum of R$231 million 40 million, and in 2015 Windward dividends, pursuing the other valuable claims that are an assessment for the 2010 calendar year in the sum of R$152 million now within its control, and working with the other parties to the 26 million both covering tax, interest and penalties.
Souza Cruz Funding Agreement to maximise recoveries from third parties with appealed both the reassessments in full.
Regarding the 2009 a view to ensuring that amounts funded towards clean-up related assessment the Souza Cruz appeal was rejected and awaits review by costs are later recouped under the agreed repayment mechanisms.
General litigation conclusion South Africa In 2011 the South African Revenue Service SARS challenged the 66.
While it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular debt financing of British American Tobacco South Africa BATSA case or of the amount of any possible adverse verdict, the Group and reassessed the years 2006 to 2008.
BATSA has objected to believes that the defences of the Groups companies to all these and appealed this reassessment.
In 2014, SARS also reassessed the various claims are meritorious on both the law and the facts, and a years 2009 and 2010.
In 2015, BATSA has filed formal Notices of vigorous defence is being made everywhere.
An adverse judgment Appeal against the 2009 and 2010 assessments and has reserved its was entered against one Group company, Imperial, in the Quebec right to challenge the constitutionality of the assessment at a later class actions and an appeal has been made.
BATSA have filed a detailed objection letter to the 2009 10 judgments are entered against any of the Groups companies in reassessments.
Across the period from 2006 to 2010 the reassessments any case, appeals will be made.
Such appeals could require the are for R1.79 billion 78 million covering both tax and interest.
appellants to post appeal bonds or substitute security as has been necessary in Quebec in amounts which could in some cases Netherlands equal or exceed the amount of the judgment.
In any event, the External bonds of British American Tobacco Holdings The Group has the benefit of the RJRT Indemnification with regard to Netherlands B. V. are guaranteed by British American Tobacco US litigation, excluding the litigation brought by the shareholders p. l. c. In 2013, a new Dutch transfer pricing decree was introduced.
At least in the aggregate, and despite the quality The authorities are seeking to deny all deductions for guarantee fees of defences available to the Group, it is not impossible that the going back to 2008, and have issued assessments for the years 2008, Groups results of operations or cash flows in particular quarterly or 2009 and 2011 in the sum of 31 million 23 million to cover tax annual periods could be materially affected by this and by the final and interest.
The appropriate objection correspondence against these outcome of any particular litigation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 201
