financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements 1.
General information Britvic plc the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
It is a public limited company domiciled in England and Wales and its ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Britvic plc and its subsidiaries together the group operate in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution industry, principally in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and France.
The operating companies of the group are disclosed within note 32.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 24 November 2015.
Statement of compliance The financial information has been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS, as they apply to the financial statements of the group.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except where measurement of balances at fair value is required as explained below.
The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling, which is also the functional currency of the company, and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
Finance income and finance cost have been split out on the face of the income statement in the current and prior period in order to assist users of the financial statements in understanding the finance costs and finance income of the group.
Going concern The directors are confident that it is appropriate for the going concern basis to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
As at 27 September 2015, the consolidated balance sheet is showing a net assets position of 211.8m 28 September 2014: net assets of 83.1m.
Group reserves are low due to the capital restructuring undertaken at the time of flotation.
This does not impact on Britvic plcs ability to make dividend payments.
The liquidity of the group remains strong, an agreement was reached in November 2014 to refinance the groups 400.0m bank facility with a revised maturity date of November 2019, which was subsequently revised further to November 2020, and 574.0m of private placement notes have maturity dates between 2016 and 2026.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the group incorporate the financial information of the company and the entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
Control is achieved when the company: Has the power over the investee: Is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee: and Has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the group gains control or up to the date control ceases respectively.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when payment is being made.
Revenue is recognised when goods are delivered and accepted by customers, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount can be measured reliably.
Revenue is the value of sales, excluding transactions with or between subsidiaries, after the deduction of sales-related discounts and rebates, value added tax and other sales-related taxes.
Sales-related discounts comprise: Long-term discounts and rebates which are sales incentives to customers to encourage them to purchase increased volumes and are related to total volumes purchased and sales growth Short-term promotional discounts which are directly related to promotions run by customers.
Where sales-related rebates and discounts are earned, management make an accrual where it is probable that the rebate will be earned by the customer.
Accruals are made for each individual promotion or rebate based on the specific terms and conditions of the customer agreement.
Management make estimates on an ongoing basis to assess customer performance and sales volume to calculate total amounts earned to be recorded as deductions from revenue.
84 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Assets under construction are carried at cost.
Depreciation of these assets commences when they are ready for use.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of an asset, less its estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis, over the useful economic life of that asset as follows: Plant and machinery 3 to 20 years Vehicles included in plant and machinery 5 to 7 years Equipment in retail outlets included in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 5 to 10 years Other fixtures and fittings included in fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3 to 10 years Land is not depreciated.
Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over 50 years, or over the unexpired lease term when this is less than 50 years.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount, and are included in the consolidated income statement in the period of derecognition.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Useful lives and residual amounts are reviewed annually and where adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
Investment property Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or capital appreciation.
The group has elected to use the cost model.
Properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment loss at the balance sheet date.
Depreciation on investment property is calculated in the same way as for property, plant and equipment.
The carrying value of investment property is reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable and is written down immediately to the recoverable amount.
Non-current assets held for sale The group classifies non-current assets as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through a sale rather than continuing use.
Such non-current assets as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Property, plant and equipment and intangibles assets are not depreciated or amortised once classified as held for sale.
Assets classified as held for sale are presented separately beneath current items in the statement of financial position.
Goodwill While the original acquisition of Britannia Soft Drinks Limited was accounted for under the merger method, business combinations on or after 4 October 2004 have been accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations using the acquisition method.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited to the consolidated income statement in the period of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies by management.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the group of cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 85 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Software costs Software expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Acquired computer software licences and software developed in-house are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Costs include resources focussed on delivery of capital projects where the choice has been made to use internal resources rather than external resources.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three to seven years on a straight-line basis.
Trademarks, franchise rights and customer lists Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of consideration paid.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation or impairment losses.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition, if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives on a straight-line basis over a period appropriate to the assets useful life.
The carrying values of intangible assets with finite and indefinite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are also tested for impairment annually either individually or, if the intangible asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, as part of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs.
Such intangibles are not amortised.
The useful life of an intangible asset with an indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether indefinite life assessment continues to be supportable.
If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis.
Research and development Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset when the group can demonstrate: The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use Its intention to complete and its ability to use the asset How the asset will generate future economic benefits The availability of resources to complete the asset The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development The ability to use the intangible asset generated Following initial recognition of development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of the asset begins when development is complete and available for use.
It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit.
During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually.
Impairment of intangible assets The group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount or the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit CGU to which the asset belongs if it does not generate largely independent cash flows.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects senior managements estimate of the cost of capital.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the consolidated income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Goodwill impairment losses cannot subsequently be reversed.
Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
86 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, which is normally the transaction price, plus directly attributable transaction costs for those financial assets not subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables The group has financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30-90 day terms, are recognised at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Fair value The group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability: or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The fair value of an asset or liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
The group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstance and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant ef fect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant ef fect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation at the end of each reporting period.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations.
All derivative financial instruments are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is appropriate, the hedging relationship is documented at its inception.
This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 87 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued Cash flow hedges Hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale occurs.
However, when the forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are then transferred to the consolidated income statement or included in the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
Net investment hedges Financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the groups net investment in foreign operations.
Some of the groups foreign currency borrowings qualify as hedging instruments that hedge foreign currency net investment balances.
The effective portion of gains or losses on translation of borrowings designated as net investment hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Upon disposal of the associated investment in foreign operations any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled through the consolidated income statement.
Fair value hedges Hedges of the change in fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are classified as fair value hedges.
For fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and is also recognised in the consolidated income statement.
If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the hedged item would no longer be adjusted and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying amount would be amortised to the consolidated income statement based on a recalculated effective interest rate.
The fair value gain or loss on the hedging instrument would continue to be recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments The derecognition of a financial asset takes place when the contractual rights to the cash flows expire, or when the contractual rights to the cash flows have either been transferred or an obligation has been assumed to pass them through to a third party and the group does not retain substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
Financial liabilities are only derecognised when they are extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of equity instruments that, in the opinion of the Directors and based on the best available estimate at that date, will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described below.
The consolidated income statement charge or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Taxation The current income tax expense is based on taxable profits for the period, after any adjustments in respect of prior periods.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred tax assets, on all material temporary differences between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial statements.
The principal temporary differences arise from accelerated capital allowances, intangible assets, provisions for pensions and other postretirement benefits, provisions for share-based payments and unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdiction.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled based on the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
88 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as finance costs.
Pensions and post retirement benefits The group operates a number of pension schemes.
These include both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
Defined benefit plans The defined benefit pension liability or asset in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period.
Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the return on plan assets excluding interest, is reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Remeasurement recognised in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss.
Past service cost is recognised in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined liability or asset.
Defined benefit costs are categorised as follows: Service cost including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements : Net interest expense or income: and Remeasurement.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the groups defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans.
Defined contribution plans Under defined contribution plans, contributions payable for the period are charged to the consolidated income statement as an operating expense.
Employee benefits Wages, salaries, bonuses and paid annual leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the group.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases by the group.
Leases in which the group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Any lease incentives received are credited to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases to which they relate.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, bank overdrafts repayable on demand are a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance cost.
On a refinancing any unamortised financing charges are accelerated through the consolidated income statement.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 89 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements of the group are presented in pounds sterling.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements is the same as the functional currency of the company.
For each entity the group determines the functional currency and items, included in the financial statements of each entity, are measured using that functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement, except when hedge accounting is applied and for differences in monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit and loss.
Foreign operations The consolidated income statement and statement of cash flows of foreign operations are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period.
The balance sheet is translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date.
Exchange differences arising on opening net assets and arising on the translation of results at an average rate compared to a closing rate are both recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated exchange differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the consolidated income statement.
Certain of the groups financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the groups net investment in foreign operations.
See derivative financial instruments and hedging policy on page 87 and 88 for further detail.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the board of directors of the company.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Other reserves Share premium account The share premium account is used to record the excess of proceeds over the nominal value on the issue of shares.
Own shares reserve The own shares reserve is used to record purchases and issues by the group of its own shares, which will be distributed to employees as and when share awards made under the Britvic employee share plans vest.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve records the effective portion of movements in the fair value of forward exchange contracts, interest rate and crosscurrency swaps that have been designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges.
Translation reserve The translation reserve includes cumulative net exchange differences on translation into the presentational currency of items recorded in group entities with a non-sterling functional currency net of amounts recognised in respect of net investment hedges.
Merger reserve The merger reserve arose as a result of the non pre-emptive share placement which took place on 21 May 2010.
It was executed using a structure which created a merger reserve under Section 612-3 of the Companies Act 2006.
Own shares The cost of own shares held in employee share trusts and in treasury is deducted from shareholders equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also included in shareholders equity.
Exceptional and other items The group presents items as exceptional and other items on the face of the consolidated income statement to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
Exceptional items include those significant items of income and expense which, because of the size, nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation.
Other items include fair value movements on financial instruments where hedge accounting cannot be applied on future transactions and also where hedge ineffectiveness is recognised.
These items have been included within exceptional and other items because they are non-cash and do not form part of how management assesses performance.
90 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Key judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
However, the nature of estimation means that the actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements and estimates which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Post-retirement benefits The determination of the pension and other post-retirement benefits cost and obligation is based on assumptions determined with independent actuarial advice.
The assumptions include discount rate, inflation, pension and salary increases, expected return on scheme assets, mortality and other demographic assumptions.
These key assumptions are disclosed in note 23.
Franchise rights Franchise rights represent franchise agreements acquired as part of the Britvic Ireland business combination which provides long-term rights to distribute certain soft drinks.
These agreements were allocated a 35 year useful economic life.
The franchise agreement has a contract life less than the useful economic life.
The useful economic life has been determined on the basis that the renewal of the franchise agreements is highly probable.
A significant emphasis is made on developing relationships with Pepsico, which includes maintaining an appropriate level of communication to deal with ongoing operational issues.
This is further strengthened through the addition of Pepsico products to Britvics portfolio in recent years.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives Management have made a judgement that intangible assets relating to brands have indefinite lives.
This is based on their historical longevity, and a business model and strategy that is based on development and expansion of Britvics brands.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the goodwill intangible asset has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Further details are given in note 15.
New standards adopted in the current period During the period, the group adopted a number of interpretations and amendments to standards including IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities, all of which had an immaterial impact on the consolidated financial statements of the group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The group has not applied the following IFRSs, which may be applicable to the group, that have been issued although in some cases not yet adopted by the EU but are not yet effective: Effective date periods commencing on or after International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Amendments to IFRS10, IFRS12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities 1 January 2016 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 11 Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisition of Interests in 1 January 2016 Joint Operations IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets 1 January 2016 between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture International Accounting Standards IAS IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable 1 January 2016 Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiatives 1 January 2016 IAS 27 Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2016 Annual IFRS Improvement Process AIP IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations 1 January 2016 Changes in methods of disposal AIP IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Servicing contracts 1 January 2016 AIP IAS 19 Employee Benefits Discount rate: regional market issue 1 January 2016 The group is currently confirming the impacts of the above new standards and interpretations on its results, financial position and cash flows, which are not expected to be material.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 91 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 4.
Segmental reporting For management purposes, the group is organised into business units and has five reportable segments as follows: GB stills United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland GB carbs United Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland Ireland Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland France International These business units sell soft drinks into their respective markets.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on brand contribution.
This is defined as revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Such costs include brand specific advertising and promotion costs, raw materials and marginal production and distribution costs.
However, group financing including finance costs and income taxes are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to reportable segments.
Transfer prices between reportable segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
52 weeks ended 27 September 2015 GB GB Total Ireland France International Total stills carbs GB m m m m m m m Revenue 321.6 565.7 120.4 240.3 52.1 1,300.1 887.3 Brand contribution 151.1 225.1 44.2 75.6 16.9 512.9 376.2 Non-brand advertising & promotion 9.7 Fixed supply chain 92.6 Selling costs 118.6 Overheads and other costs 123.0 Operating profit before exceptional & other items 169.0 Finance costs before exceptional & other items 22.0 Exceptional & other items 9.4 Profit before tax 137.6 GB GB Total Ireland France International Total 52 weeks ended 28 September 2014 stills carbs GB m m m m m m m Revenue 335.2 567.8 903.0 128.3 254.9 58.2 1,344.4 Brand contribution 159.4 222.4 381.8 47.0 67.1 21.0 516.9 Non-brand advertising & promotion 9.9 Fixed supply chain 101.8 Selling costs 120.7 Overheads and other costs 126.4 Operating profit before exceptional & other items 158.1 Finance costs before exceptional & other items 25.2 Exceptional & other items 12.8 Profit before tax 120.1 Included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Overheads and other costs relate to central expenses including salaries, IT maintenance, depreciation and amortisation.
Included within selling and distribution costs in the consolidated income statement.
92 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 4.
Segmental reporting continued Geographic information Revenues from external customers The analysis below is based on the location where the sale originated.
2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 939.4 966.7 Republic of Ireland 100.8 109.2 France 252.7 268.2 Other 7.2 0.3 Total revenue 1,300.1 1,344.4 Non-current assets 2015 2014 m m United Kingdom 253.9 233.7 Republic of Ireland 102.0 105.3 France 194.8 183.6 Other 1.0 1.1 Total 551.7 523.7 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and other receivables.
Exceptional and other items Unless otherwise stated, exceptional and other items are included within administration expenses in the consolidated income statement.
52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 27 September 2015 28 September 2014 Note m m Asset impairments a - 0.7 Costs in relation to the acquisition of subsidiary b 6.5 - Gain on disposal of previously impaired assets 0.4 0.7 Gain on held for sale property in Britvic Ireland 0.8 - Strategic restructuring - cost initiatives c 3.6 14.1 Strategic restructuring - business capability programme d 1.4 - Fair value movements e 2.1 1.3 Total included in administration expenses 12.4 12.8 Fair value movements e 3.6 1.0 Total included in finance income 3.6 1.0 Fair value movements e 0.6 - Write-off of unamortised financing fees f - 1.0 Total included in finance costs 0.6 1.0 Total exceptional and other items before tax 9.4 12.8 a Asset impairments relates to the loss recognised on transfer of a property from property, plant and equipment to held for sale in Britvic GB following closure in 2014 as part of strategic cost initiatives announced in May 2013. b Costs relating to the purchase of Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos SA Ebba.
Primarily these costs relate to advisors fees see note 33. c Strategic restructuring - cost initiatives relate to the continuation of cost initiatives announced in May 2013, following the closure of two factories in Britvic GB and subsequent reorganisation as well as integration of GB and Ireland back office operations.
d Strategic restructuring - business capability programme relates to a restructuring of supply chain to enhance commercial capabilities in Britvic GB.
e Fair value movements relate to the fair value movement of derivative financial instruments where either hedge accounting cannot be applied to future transactions or where there is ineffectiveness in the hedge relationship.
f In 2014, following the decision to refinance the groups committed bank facility, unamortised financing fees of 1.0m were written off to finance costs in the consolidated income statement see note 9.
Details of the tax implications of exceptional and other items are given in note 10a.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 93 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 6.
Operating profit loss This is stated after charging: 2015 2014 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 581.4 617.5 Including: write-down of inventories to net realisable value 2.4 1.1 Research and development expenditure written off 3.5 2.6 Net foreign currency exchange differences 1.0 1.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 29.9 31.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 11.1 10.4 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 13.5 11.7 7.
Auditors remuneration 2015 2014 m m Audit of the group financial statements 0.1 0.2 Audit of subsidiaries 0.5 0.4 Total audit 0.6 0.6 Audit related assurance services 0.1 - Other non-audit services not covered above 0.2 1.4 Total non-audit services 0.3 1.4 0.9 2.0 Total fees 8.
Staff costs 2015 2014 m m Wages and salaries 127.0 127.9 Social security costs 19.6 19.8 Net pension charge 12.8 11.1 Expense of share based compensation note 29 10.6 9.1 170.0 167.9 2015 2014 m m Directors emoluments 2.4 2.5 Aggregate gains made by directors on exercise of options - 1.5 2015 2014 No.
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes - - The average monthly number of employees during the period was made up as follows: 2015 2014 No.
Distribution 290 300 Production 1,386 1,389 Sales and marketing 911 911 Administration 530 559 3,117 3,159 94 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 9.
Finance costs 2015 2014 m m Finance income Bank deposits 0.3 0.2 Fair value movement on interest rate swap see note 26 1.5 1.0 Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges 2.1 - Total finance income 3.9 1.2 Finance costs Bank loans, overdrafts and loan notes 22.2 25.3 Unwinding of discount in provisions 0.1 0.1 Write off of unamortised financing fees see note 5 - 1.0 Ineffectiveness in respect of fair value hedges 0.6 - Total finance costs 22.9 26.4 19.0 25.2 Net finance costs 10.
Taxation a Tax on profit on continuing operations 2015 Before Exceptional Total exceptional & other & other items items m m m Income statement Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 34.4 1.2 33.2 Amounts over under provided in previous years 0.9 0.2 0.7 Total current income tax charge credit 33.5 1.0 32.5 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.6 0.3 0.9 Amounts under over provided in previous years 0.4 - 0.4 Total deferred tax charge 1.0 0.3 1.3 Total tax charge credit in the income statement 34.5 0.7 33.8 Statement of comprehensive income Current tax on additional pension contributions 3.1 Deferred tax on defined benefit plans 3.7 Deferred tax in respect of cash flow hedges accounted for in the hedging reserve 2.5 Total tax credit in the statement of comprehensive income 1.9 Statement of changes in equity Current tax on share options exercised 0.6 Deferred tax on share options granted to employees 1.0 Total tax charge in the statement of changes in equity 0.4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 95 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 10.
T axation continued a Tax on profit on continuing operations continued 2014 Before Exceptional Total exceptional & other & other items items m m m Income statement Current income tax Current income tax charge credit 36.2 3.0 33.2 Amounts under over provided in previous years 2.0 0.7 1.3 Total current income tax charge credit 38.2 3.7 34.5 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.3 0.4 3.9 Amounts over under provided in previous years 0.9 0.7 0.2 Total deferred tax credit charge 5.2 1.1 4.1 Total tax charge credit in the income statement 33.0 2.6 30.4 Statement of comprehensive income Current tax on additional pension contributions 4.5 Deferred tax on defined benefit plans 2.0 Deferred tax in respect of cash flow hedges accounted for in the hedging reserve 0.1 Tax on exchange differences accounted for in the translation reserve 0.7 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 0.1 Total tax credit in the statement of comprehensive income 3.4 Statement of changes in equity Current tax on share options exercised 0.8 Deferred tax on share options granted to employees 0.6 Total tax credit in the statement of changes in equity 1.4 b Reconciliation of the total tax charge The tax expense in the consolidated income statement is higher 2014: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.5% 2014: 22.0%.
The differences are reconciled below: 2015 Before Exceptional Total exceptional & other & other items items m m m Profit loss before tax 147.0 9.4 137.6 Profit loss multiplied by the UK average rate of corporation tax of 20.5% 30.1 1.9 28.2 Permanent differences 0.5 0.7 0.2 Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax liability 0.2 0.1 0.3 Tax over under provided in previous years 0.5 0.2 0.3 Overseas tax rate differences 4.8 0.4 4.4 Losses not recognised 0.4 0.6 1.0 34.5 0.7 33.8 23.5% 24.6% Effective income tax rate 96 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 10.
T axation continued b Reconciliation of the total tax charge continued 2014 Before Exceptional & Total exceptional other items & other items m m m Profit loss before tax 132.9 12.8 120.1 Profit loss multiplied by the UK average rate of corporation tax of 22.0% 29.2 2.8 26.4 Permanent differences 0.4 0.1 0.5 Impact of change in tax rates on deferred tax liability 0.2 0.1 0.1 Tax underprovided in previous years 0.9 0.1 1.0 Overseas tax rate differences 3.1 0.3 3.4 33.0 2.6 30.4 Effective income tax rate 24.8% 25.3% c Unrecognised tax items The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised total 9.3m 2014: 7.5m.
No deferred tax has been provided in respect of these differences, since the timing of the reversals can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the future.
The group expects that future remittances of earnings from its overseas subsidiaries will be covered by the UK dividend exemption and so the un-remitted earnings of these subsidiaries are not disclosed above.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of unused tax losses of 8.8m 2014: 4.3m.
Included in this amount are tax losses of 3.6m 2014: 2.8m that will expire in 7-8 years.
Other losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
d Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 5.8 5.4 Acquisition fair value adjustments 33.9 15.4 Other temporary differences 1.5 - Post employment benefits 20.3 16.1 Deferred tax liability 61.5 36.9 Deferred tax asset Employee incentive plan 5.8 5.7 Unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions 4.2 6.6 Other temporary differences 5.1 1.3 Deferred tax asset 15.1 13.6 Net deferred tax liability 46.4 23.3 Following a review, further non-current deferred tax liabilities of 20.3m were identified that should have been recognised in relation to acquired indefinite life brand intangibles upon acquisition of Britvic France which has resulted in an increase in goodwill.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 97 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 10.
T axation continued d Deferred tax continued Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2015 2014 m m Net deferred tax assets - - Net deferred tax liabilities 46.4 23.3 46.4 23.3 The deferred tax included in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Employee incentive plan 0.9 1.4 Accelerated capital allowances 0.4 1.5 Post employment benefits 0.4 0.6 Acquisition fair value adjustments 0.9 1.0 Utilised unutilised losses incurred in overseas jurisdictions 1.6 1.3 Other temporary differences 0.7 0.5 1.3 4.1 Deferred tax charge credit In 2015, there is a 0.3m charge relating to exceptional items 2014: 1.1m charge included within the overall 1.3m deferred tax charge 2014: overall 4.1m credit in the consolidated income statement.
e Impact of rate change Finance Act 2015 enacted reductions in the UK corporation tax rate from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The effect of the new rate is to reduce the deferred tax provision by a net 1.9m, comprising a credit of 1.7m to the income statement and a credit of 0.2m to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit loss for the period attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to the ordinary equity shareholders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following table reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2015 2014 m m Basic earnings per share Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 103.8 89.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 248.6 245.8 41.8p 36.5p Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 103.8 89.7 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share schemes 3.1 1.7 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 251.7 247.5 Diluted earnings per share 41.2p 36.2p The group has granted share options to employees which have the potential to dilute basic EPS in the future which have not been included in the calculation of diluted EPS as they are antidilutive for the periods presented see note 29.
The group presents as exceptional and other items on the face of the consolidated income statement, those significant items of income and expense which, because of the size, nature and infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the period, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
98 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 11.
Earnings per share continued To this end, basic and diluted earnings per share are also presented on this basis with the amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets also added back using the weighted average number of ordinary shares for both basic and diluted amounts as per the table below.
2015 2014 Note m m Adjusted basic earnings per share Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 103.8 89.7 Add: Net impact of exceptional and other items 8.7 10.2 Add: Intangible assets amortisation acquisition-related 14 2.6 2.9 115.1 102.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 248.6 245.8 46.3p 41.8p Adjusted basic earnings per share Adjusted diluted earnings per share Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders before exceptional items and 115.1 102.8 other items and acquisition related intangible assets amortisation Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share 251.7 247.5 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 45.7p 41.5p The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic and diluted earnings per share includes 2.1 million shares in relation to the non pre-emptive share placement in July 2015 which was used for the acquisition of Ebba subsequent to the period end.
The impact of this placement is a reduction in the adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share of 0.4p in the current period.
Dividends paid and proposed 2015 2014 m m Declared and paid during the period Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2014: 14.8p per share 2013: 13.0p per share 36.4 31.8 Interim dividend for 2015: 6.7p per share 2014: 6.1p per share 16.5 15.0 Dividends paid 52.9 46.8 Proposed Final dividend for 2015: 16.3p per share 2014: 14.8p per share 42.6 36.3 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 99 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 13.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Leasehold Plant and Fixtures, Total land and land and machinery fittings, buildings buildings tools and equipment m m m m m At 29 September 2013, net of accumulated 61.5 29.0 86.4 38.8 215.7 depreciation and impairment Exchange differences 2.1 0.7 2.6 0.1 5.5 Additions 15.5 0.9 18.8 12.9 48.1 Disposals at cost - - 2.9 15.2 18.1 Depreciation eliminated on disposals - - 2.0 14.5 16.5 Depreciation charge for the year 2.5 0.9 17.6 10.5 31.5 Assets transferred to held for sale note 20 - 3.6 - - 3.6 Reclassification - - 0.7 0.7 - Impairment impairment reversal - 0.7 0.1 - 0.6 At 28 September 2014 net of accumulated 72.4 24.0 84.9 39.7 221.0 depreciation and impairment Exchange differences 1.8 0.4 2.0 - 4.2 Additions 9.9 1.7 40.8 8.9 61.3 Disposals at cost 0.2 - 2.8 15.1 18.1 Depreciation eliminated on disposals 0.2 - 2.7 14.1 17.0 Depreciation charge for the year 2.8 1.0 16.2 9.9 29.9 Assets transferred to held for sale note 20 - 2.8 - - 2.8 Reclassification - - 0.3 0.3 - Impairment - - 0.1 - 0.1 At 27 September 2015 net of accumulated 77.7 21.5 107.0 38.0 244.2 depreciation and impairment At 27 September 2015 Cost gross carrying amount 101.9 32.2 310.0 149.7 593.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 24.2 10.7 203.0 111.7 349.6 Net carrying amount 77.7 21.5 107.0 38.0 244.2 At 28 September 2014 Cost gross carrying amount 95.4 35.9 279.7 157.5 568.5 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 23.0 11.9 194.8 117.8 347.5 Net carrying amount 72.4 24.0 84.9 39.7 221.0 The impairment in 2015 relates to assets impaired in France.
The impairment in 2014 relates to a loss on transfer of a property held in the GB stills segment to non-current assets held for sale see note 20, and has been included within exceptional and other items see note 5.
Assets under construction The net book value of property, plant and equipment includes the following balances in respect of assets under construction where no depreciation is charged until these assets are ready to be used: freehold land and buildings 1.1m 2014: 0.9m, plant and machinery 28.0m 2014: 8.0m, and fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 9.9m 2014: 12.6m.
Finance leases The net book value of freehold land and buildings includes 0.1m 2014: 0.1m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
Investment property The net book value of freehold land and buildings includes 2.6m 2014: nil in respect of assets classified as investment property.
The investment property was purchased during the current period at fair value and comprises 2.5m in relation to the freehold land and buildings and 0.1m of associated purchase costs.
The property rental income earned by the group from its investment property, all of which is leased out under operating leases, amounted to 0.1m 2014: nil.
100 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 14.
Following a review, further non-current deferred tax liabilities were identified that should have been recognised in relation to acquired indefinite life brand intangibles upon acquisition of Britvic France which has resulted in an increase in goodwill.
Trademarks Britvic Ireland and Britvic France Trademarks represent those trade names acquired which the group plans to maintain.
All trademarks have been allocated an indefinite life by management.
A list of the trademarks held in respect of the Britvic Ireland and Britvic France segments is shown in note 15.
It is expected, and in line with existing well-established trademarks within the group, that the trademarks with indefinite lives in respect of Britvic France and Britvic Ireland will be held and supported for an indefinite period of time and are expected to generate economic benefits.
The group is committed to supporting its trademarks and invests in significant consumer marketing promotional spend.
Franchise rights Franchise rights represent the franchise agreements acquired as part of the Britvic Ireland business combination which provide the long-term right to bottle and distribute certain soft drinks.
These agreements were allocated a 35-year useful economic life.
As at 27 September 2015 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 27 years.
The franchise agreement itself has a contract life less than the useful economic life.
The useful economic life has been determined on the basis that the renewal of the contract is highly probable.
Customer lists Britvic France Customer lists recognised on the acquisition of Britvic France relate to those customer relationships acquired.
These intangible assets have been allocated useful economic lives of 20 years.
At 27 September 2015 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of 15 years.
Britvic Ireland Customer lists represent those customer relationships acquired which are valued in respect of the grocery and wholesale businesses.
These customer lists have been allocated useful economic lives of between ten and twenty years.
At 27 September 2015 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of between two and twelve years.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 101 financial statements financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued continued 14.
Intangible assets continued Software costs Software is capitalised at cost.
These intangible assets have been assessed as having finite lives and are amortised using the straight-line method over a period of 3 to 7 years.
As at 27 September 2015 these intangible assets have a remaining useful life of up to 7 years.
Goodwill Goodwill is subject to an impairment review at each reporting date in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Further detail is provided in note 15.
Intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of Britvic Ireland and Britvic France are valued in euros and translated to sterling at the reporting date.
Impairment testing of intangible assets Carrying amount of goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives The carrying amount of goodwill acquired through business combinations, and trademarks with indefinite lives recognised as part of fair value exercises on acquisitions, are attributable to the following cash-generating units: 2015 2014 m m Goodwill CGUs Britvic GB Orchid 6.0 6.0 Tango 8.9 8.9 Robinsons 38.6 38.6 Britvic Soft Drinks business BSD 7.8 7.8 Britvic Ireland 15.5 14.7 Britvic France 57.1 74.1 133.9 150.1 2014 2015 m m Trademarks with indefinite lives Britvic Ireland CGUs Britvic 5.9 5.5 Cidona 5.2 4.9 Mi Wadi 8.0 7.6 Ballygowan 2.1 2.2 Club 12.5 13.2 32.6 34.5 Britvic France CGUs Teisseire 44.7 42.1 Moulin fide Valdonne 3.7 3.5 Pressade 4.2 4.0 Fruit 3.7 3.9 53.3 56.5 Total Trademarks 85.9 91.0 The Britvic Ireland and Britvic France goodwill and trademarks with indefinite lives are valued in euros and translated into sterling at the reporting date.
The movements in the carrying amount of goodwill from the prior year relate to translation movements.
With the exception of Britvic Ireland and Britvic France goodwill, all other goodwill amounts were recognised on acquisitions made within Britvic GB.
Trademarks with indefinite lives were recognised as part of the fair value exercises relating to the 2007 acquisition of Britvic Ireland and the 2010 acquisition of Britvic France.
They were allocated by senior management to the individual cash-generating units for impairment testing as shown in the table above.
102 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued continued 15.
Impairment testing of intangible assets continued Method of impairment testing Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets are undertaken by senior management annually.
Value in use calculations are performed for each cash-generating unit using cash flow projections and are based on the latest annual financial budgets prepared by senior management and approved by the board of directors.
Senior management expectations are formed in line with performance to date and experience, as well as available external market data.
The group has considered the impact of the current economic climate in determining the appropriate discount rate to use in impairment testing.
The same discount rate is relevant to all CGUs in each country as the group only operates in the soft drinks manufacturing and distribution market sector.
The applicable pre-tax discount rate for cash flow projections is: At 28 September 2014 At 27 September 2015 Britvic GB 9.6% 10.9% Britvic Ireland 9.7% 9.3% Britvic France 10.5% 12.8% Key assumptions used in value in use calculations Cash flows beyond a one-year period are extrapolated based on growth and discount rates as described below.
The following describes each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections to undertake impairment testing of goodwill.
Volume growth rates reflect senior management expectations of volume growth based on growth achieved to date, current strategy and expected market trends.
Discount rates reflect senior managements estimate of the pre-tax cost of capital adjusted where necessary to reflect the different risks of different countries in which the group operates.
The estimated pre-tax cost of capital is the benchmark used by management to assess operating performance and to evaluate future capital investment proposals.
Marginal contribution being revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Marginal contribution is based on financial budgets approved by the Britvic plc board.
Key assumptions are made within these budgets about pricing, discounts and costs based on historical data, current strategy and expected market trends.
Advertising and promotional spend financial budgets approved by senior management are used to determine the value assigned to advertising and promotional spend.
This is based on the planned spend for year one and strategic intent thereafter.
Raw materials price, production and distribution costs, selling costs and other overhead inflation the basis used to determine the value assigned to inflation is the forecast increase in consumer price indices in the relevant market.
This has been used in all value in use calculations performed.
Intangible assets with finite lives No indicators of impairment were identified on intangible assets with finite lives and no impairment was recognised against these assets.
Results and conclusions No impairments have been identified during the 52 week period ended 27 September 2015.
In 2014 no impairments were identified.
Other than for the Britvic trademark within Britvic Ireland where the recoverable amount is equal to its carrying value, the directors do not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used to calculate the value in use of remaining goodwill and intangible assets would result in any impairment.
The key assumption to which the calculation of value in use for the Britvic trademark within Britvic Ireland is most sensitive is the discount rate where an increase in the discount rate from 9.3% to 10.3% would result in an impairment charge of 0.5m.
Other receivables non-current 2014 2015 m m Operating lease premiums 2.4 2.4 Other - 0.6 3.0 Total other receivables non-current 2.4 Operating lease premiums relates to the un-amortised element of lease premiums paid on inception of operating leases.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 103 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 17.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 24.6 27.5 Finished goods 54.0 49.1 Consumable stores 7.2 6.7 Returnable packaging 0.9 1.4 Total inventories at lower of cost and net realisable value 86.7 84.7 18.
Trade and other receivables current 2015 2014 m m Trade receivables 269.2 250.0 Other receivables 9.4 9.0 Prepayments 15.3 17.9 293.9 276.9 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on credit terms usual for the markets in which the group operates.
As at 27 September 2015, trade receivables at nominal value of 1.8m 2014: 1.2m were impaired and fully provided against.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: Total m At 29 September 2013 1.6 Charge for period 2.5 Utilised 0.5 Unused amounts reversed 2.4 At 28 September 2014 1.2 Charge for period 2.5 Utilised 0.2 Unused amounts reversed 1.7 At 27 September 2015 1.8 The group takes the following factors into account when considering whether a provision for impairment should be made for trade receivables: Payment performance history: and External information available regarding credit ratings.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Past due but not impaired Total Neither 30 days 30 60 60 90 90 120 120 days past due days days days nor impaired m m m m m m m 2015 269.2 224.9 23.8 5.8 5.3 1.2 8.2 2014 250.0 222.7 13.1 3.1 1.3 0.4 9.4 The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is considered good.
Refer to note 25 for details of the groups credit risk policy.
The group monitors the credit quality of trade receivables by reference to credit ratings available externally.
104 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 19.
Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 14.3 25.3 Deposits 225.3 118.7 Cash and cash equivalents 239.6 144.0 Bank overdrafts - 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 239.6 143.3 During the year, short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is equal to the book value.
At 27 September 2015 the group had available 400.0m 2014: 400.0m of un-drawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
Following the refinancing of this agreement during the year these facilities now have a maturity date of November 2020.
Where available, the group operates cash pooling arrangements whereby the net cash position across a number of accounts is recognised for interest purposes.
Non-current assets held for sale Total m At 29 September 2013 - Net transfer from property, plant and equipment 3.6 At 28 September 2014 3.6 Disposal 2.8 Net transfer from property, plant and equipment 2.8 Impairment in value during the period 0.1 At 27 September 2015 3.5 The disposal relates to a property previously held for sale in Britvic Ireland.
The sale of the property completed on 2 October 2014 and resulted in a gain on disposal of 0.8m.
Issued share capital The issued share capital is wholly comprised of ordinary shares carrying one voting right each.
The nominal value of each ordinary share is 0.20.
There are no restrictions placed on the distribution of dividends, or the return of capital on a winding up or otherwise.
of shares Value Issued, called up and fully paid ordinary shares At 29 September 2013 245,091,028 49,018,205 Shares issued relating to incentive schemes for employees 2,138,087 427,618 At 28 September 2014 247,229,115 49,445,823 Shares issued relating to incentive schemes for employees 1,549,282 309,856 Shares issued under a non pre-emptive placing 12,361,455 2,472,291 At 27 September 2015 261,139,852 52,227,970 Consideration received from the non pre-emptive placing was 87.8m which was used for the acquisition of Ebba subsequent to the period end.
In addition fees relating to the raising of equity of 1.1m have been offset in share premium.
Of the issued and fully paid ordinary shares, 1,678,637 shares 2014: 409,725 shares are own shares held by an employee benefit trust.
This equates to 335,727 2014: 81,945 at 0.20 par value of each ordinary share.
These shares are held for the purpose of satisfying the share schemes detailed in note 29.
An explanation of the groups capital management process and objectives is set out in note 25.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 105 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 22.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2015 2014 m m Current Finance leases 0.1 0.1 Bank loans 0.1 0.8 Private placement notes 3.4 21.8 Less: un-amortised issue costs 0.7 0.3 Total current 2.9 22.4 2015 2014 m m Non-current Finance leases 0.1 0.2 Bank loans 0.4 0.6 Private placement notes 574.0 540.1 Less: un-amortised issue costs 2.1 1.0 Total non-current 572.4 539.9 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 575.3 562.3 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings comprise the following: 2015 2014 m m Finance leases 0.2 0.3 2007 Notes 192.8 180.9 2009 Notes 151.3 160.5 2010 Notes 119.8 111.7 2014 Notes 110.1 105.2 Accrued interest 3.4 3.6 Bank loans 0.5 1.4 Capitalised issue costs 2.8 1.3 575.3 562.3 Analysis of changes in interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2015 2014 m m At the beginning of the period 562.3 549.9 Net bank loans repaid drawndown 0.9 0.4 Partial repayment of 2007 Notes - 76.8 Partial repayment of 2009 Notes 18.0 - Issue of 2014 Notes - 105.8 Issue costs 2.2 0.4 Repayment of finance leases 0.1 0.2 Amortisation of issue costs and write off of financing fees 0.7 1.9 Net translation loss gain and fair value adjustment 33.7 18.0 Accrued interest 0.2 0.3 At the end of the period 575.3 562.3 Derivatives hedging balance sheet debt 71.8 38.1 503.5 524.2 Debt translated at contracted rate Represents the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the private placement notes.
This amount has been disclosed separately to demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange movements which are included in interest bearing loans and borrowings.
106 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 22.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings continued Bank loans The bank loans classified as non-current are repayable by December 2018 2014: December 2018.
Loans outstanding at 27 September 2015 attract interest at an average rate of 4.52% for euro denominated loans 2014: 4.21% for euro denominated loans and 11.00% for Indian Rupee denominated loans.
There were no sterling denominated bank loans outstanding at 27 September 2015 2014: nil.
Private placement notes The group holds loan notes with coupons and maturities as shown in the following table: Year issued Maturity date Amount Interest terms 2007 February 2019 13m UK fixed at 5.94% 2007 February 2017 February 2019 $273m US$ fixed at 5.90% - 6.00% 2009 December 2016 December 2019 $220m US$ fixed at 4.77% - 5.24% 2010 December 2017 7.5m UK fixed at 3.74% 2010 December 2017 December 2022 $163m US$ fixed at 3.45% - 4.14% 2014 February 2021 February 2024 35m UK fixed at 3.40% - 3.92% 2014 February 2024 February 2026 $114m US$ fixed at 4.09% - 4.24% The group entered into a number of cross-currency swap agreements in relation to the loan notes to manage any foreign exchange risk on interest rates or on the repayment of the principal borrowed.
These swaps expire in line with the loan notes and are discussed in note 26.
See note 25 for an analysis of the interest rate profile and the maturity of the borrowings and related interest rate swaps.
Partial repayment of 2009 Notes On 17 December 2014, in line with the maturity profile of the 2009 Notes, Britvic plc repaid US$30m equivalent to 18.0m in the United States private placement market USPP.
Pensions The groups principal pension scheme for GB employees, the Britvic Pension Plan BPP has both a defined benefit and contribution section.
The defined benefit section was closed to new members from 1 August 2002 and closed to future accrual for active members from 1 April 2011, with new members moving to the defined contribution section for future service benefits.
Contributions are paid into the defined benefit section of the BPP as determined by the Trustee, agreed by the company and certified by an independent actuary in the Schedule of Contributions.
The latest formal actuarial valuation for contribution purposes was carried out as at 31 March 2013.
No additional employer contributions have been requested as the funding level has improved since the 2010 actuarial valuation.
The BPP is a limited partner of Britvic Scottish Limited Partnership Britvic SLP, which in turn is a limited partner in both Britvic Property Partnership Britvic PP and Britvic Brands LLP Britvic Brands.
Britvic SLP, Britvic PP and Britvic Brands are all consolidated by the group.
The investment held by BPP does not represent a plan asset for accounting purposes and is therefore not included in the fair value of the plan assets.
In 2010 11 properties were transferred to Britvic PP at a value of 28.6m and in 2011 12 certain group brands to the value of 72.4m were transferred to Britvic Brands, all of which are leased back to Britvic Soft Drinks Limited.
The group retains operational flexibility over the properties and brands including the ability to substitute the properties and brands held by Britvic PP and Britvic Brands respectively.
The BPP is entitled to a share of the profits in Britvic SLP until 2026.
At the end of this period, the partnership capital allocated to the BPP will be changed to an amount equal to any funding deficit of the BPP at this time, up to a maximum of 105m.
In addition to the expected partnership income of at least 5m per annum, the group will make payments to the BPP of 15m per annum by 31 December each year, from 2014 to 2017.
Additional contributions of 15m per annum by 31 December in the years 2018 and 2019 will be made should the formal actuarial valuation in 2016 reveal that these contributions are necessary to return the BPP to full funding on a self-sufficiency basis by 31 March 2020.
During this year 20.4m of additional contributions were paid to the BPP, of which 15.4m was paid by the group and 5.0m relates to income received from the pension funding partnership PFP structure.
All members of the defined benefit section of the BPP may benefit from the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF, which is a noncontractual benefit that allows members to retire within five years of reaching the normal pension age without a reduction in their pension, and to benefit from smaller reductions in their pension if they retire more than five years before reaching normal pension age.
The company has given notice to all Plan members that the EERF will be withdrawn from 5 April 2016.
The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the BPP defined contribution scheme in the consolidated income statement for 2015 was 11.4m 2014: 10.8m.
Britvics business in GB also has a secured unfunded unregistered retirement benefit scheme called The Britvic Executive Top Up Scheme BETUS which provides benefits for members who have historically exceeded the Earnings Cap, or the Lifetime Allowance whilst members of the defined benefit section of the BPP.
BETUS closed to future accrual on 10 April 2011 which coincided with the closure of the defined benefit section of the BPP.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 107 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 23.
Pensions continued The Britvic Northern Ireland Pension Plan BNIPP is a defined benefit pension plan which was closed to new members on 28 February 2006, and since this date new employees have been eligible to join a Stakeholder plan with Legal & General.
The latest formal actuarial valuation for contribution purposes was carried out as at 31 December 2011.
The 31 December 2014 valuation is currently underway and is expected to be completed by 31 March 2016.
The Britvic Ireland Pension Plan BIPP is a defined benefit pension plan.
Following legislative changes made in 2012 no deficit recovery contributions are currently required.
The 1 January 2015 triennial valuation is underway and will be completed by 1 April 2016.
The Trustee has been undertaking investment fide-risking to protect the ongoing funding position achieved as a result of the 2012 changes.
The amount recognised as an expense in relation to the Irish defined contribution schemes in the consolidated income statement for 2015 was 0.6m 2014: 0.8m.
Britvic France operates two defined benefit schemes: in the first, employees receive long-service cash payments at various stages throughout their careers.
From the second, employees receive a lump sum at retirement.
Payment amounts are dependent upon salary and service with the company.
The schemes are unfunded therefore these benefits are paid directly as they fall due.
All group pension schemes are administered by trustees who are independent of the groups finances, except for the Britvic France schemes which are operated directly by the company.
The assets and liabilities of the pension schemes were valued on an IAS 19 Revised basis at 27 September 2015 by Towers Watson BPP and the French schemes, Invesco BIPP and Buck BNIPP.
Risks For defined contribution sections and plans, the groups liability is limited to the requirement to pay contributions on behalf of each employee.
In these arrangements the associated risks are borne by the members.
For defined benefit sections and plans, the group bears the risks of operation.
The main risk that the group runs in respect of the defined benefit schemes is that additional contributions are required to pay for the benefits if investment returns are not sufficient.
The contributions required for the schemes are in general determined at each triennial actuarial funding valuation.
The key factors that will affect the need for additional contributions include levels of long-term inflation and interest rates and the assessment of how long members are expected to live, along with the level of investment return achieved.
The level of investment return achieved is subject to a range of risks typical of the asset classes held, in particular market risk on equities, credit risk on corporate bonds and exposure to the property market.
The discount rates used to calculate the liabilities are set by reference to yields on high quality corporate bonds.
There is therefore a mismatch between the assets held and the way that the liabilities are calculated, meaning that the net balance sheet position disclosed under IAS 19 could fluctuate.
For the BPP, the trustee holds the power to determine the contribution rates that the group should pay, although the group fully uses the opportunity to make representation to the trustee on this point.
The trustee of the BPP agreed to implement a revised investment strategy following the completion of the 31 March 2013 valuation.
The revised investment strategy will consist of a diverse range of fixed interest and index-linked securities, which will provide a partial hedge against inflation and interest rate risk.
The removal of equities from the investment portfolio will also reduce investment risk.
The BPP is exposed to specific non-financial risks in respect of the non-contractual EERF benefit available to all members of its defined benefit section.
If more members than expected choose to exercise this option, it will serve to increase the pension liability.
An allowance for some members to exercise this option has already been made within the liabilities and the facility will be withdrawn from 5 April 2016, at which point this risk will be removed.
The funding partnership mitigates the risk that additional cash contributions will be required after 31 March 2026, as the partnership will pay up to 105m to remove any funding deficit at 31 March 2026.
Principal assumptions Financial assumptions 2015 ROI NI France GB % % % % Discount rate 2.60 3.60 2.00 3.80 Rate of compensation increase 2.00 3.60 2.00-3.00 n a Pension increases - 2.10-2.30 - 1.85-2.95 Inflation assumption 1.40 2.30 2.00 3.15 2014 ROI NI France GB % % % % Discount rate 3.00 3.90 1.86 4.00 Rate of compensation increase 2.75 3.60 1.00-4.00 n a Pension increases - 2.10-2.30 - 1.90-2.95 Inflation assumption 1.75 2.30 - 3.20 Rate dependent on employee and business unit.
108 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 23.
Pensions continued Principal assumptions continued Demographic assumptions The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
This is based on standard actuarial tables, which for the BPP are known as SAPS Series 1.
An allowance for future improvements in longevity has also been included.
The following life expectancy assumptions have been used: 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 ROI NI GB ROI NI GB Years Years Years Years Years Years Current pensioners at age 65 males 20.9 22.2 21.4 20.9 22.2 21.3 Current pensioners at age 65 females 23.4 25.0 24.4 23.4 24.9 24.3 Future pensioners currently aged 45 23.3 24.0 23.2 23.3 24.0 23.1 at age 65 males Future pensioners currently aged 45 25.5 26.6 26.3 25.5 26.4 26.2 at age 65 females The mortality assumptions used to calculate the GB pension obligation were revised in 2014 following a mortality analysis carried out as part of the actuarial valuation of the BPP at 31 March 2013.
For the French arrangements mortality follows the INSEE 2012 tables.
As benefits are paid on retirement, the mortality assumption is of much less significance for these arrangements than for the GB and Irish arrangements.
Sensitivities Changes in assumptions used for determining retirement benefit costs and obligations may have a material impact on the consolidated income statement and balance sheet.
The main assumptions are the discount rate, the rate of inflation and the assumed mortality rate.
The following table provides an estimate of the potential impact of each of these variables on the principal pension plans.
Assumption Change in Impact on ROI Impact on NI Impact on France Impact on GB assumption liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities Discount rate Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 8.1m Decrease by 2.5m Decrease by 0.2m Decrease by 55.8m Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 9.4m Increase by 2.8m Increase by 0.2m Increase by 64.3m Inflation rate Increase by 0.25% Increase by 2.1m Increase by 1.3m Increase by 0.1m Increase by 20.7m Decrease by 0.25% Decrease by 2.1m Decrease by 1.3m Decrease by 0.1m Decrease by 24.2m Longevity rates Increase by 1 year Increase by 1.3m Increase by 0.7m n a Increase by 21.0m The sensitivity to inflation assumption includes corresponding changes to future salary applicable only to France and future pension increase assumptions.
Net benefit income expense 2015 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m Current service cost 0.9 0.1 0.2 - 1.2 Net interest on net defined benefit asset liability 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.4 Curtailment gain 0.1 - - - 0.1 Net income expense 0.9 - 0.3 0.5 0.7 2014 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m Current service cost 0.8 0.1 0.1 - 1.0 Net interest on net defined benefit asset liability 0.1 - 0.1 - 0.2 Curtailment gain 0.4 - - - 0.4 Settlement gain - - - 1.3 1.3 Net income expense 0.5 0.1 0.2 1.3 0.5 Other than stated below, the net income detailed above is recognised in arriving at net profit from continuing operations before tax and finance costs income, and is included within cost of sales, selling and distribution costs and administration expenses.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 109 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 23.
Pensions continued Taken to the statement of comprehensive income 2015 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 4.4 1.5 - 42.2 48.1 Less: Amounts included in net interest expense 1.7 1.2 - 24.1 27.0 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in 2.7 0.3 - 18.1 21.1 net interest expense Gains losses due to demographic assumptions 1.2 0.9 0.4 - 0.7 Losses due to financial assumptions 1.0 1.7 - 16.0 18.7 Experience gains 0.4 1.6 0.3 - 1.5 0.1 1.1 0.1 2.1 3.2 Remeasurement losses taken to the statement of comprehensive income 2014 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m Actual return on scheme assets 8.5 2.8 - 48.0 59.3 Less: Amounts included in net interest expense 2.2 1.2 - 25.1 28.5 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in 6.3 1.6 - 22.9 30.8 net interest expense Gains losses due to demographic assumptions 4.3 0.2 - 16.8 20.9 Losses due to financial assumptions 12.5 3.3 0.4 48.4 64.6 Experience gains 0.4 0.2 - - 0.6 Remeasurement losses taken to the statement of 1.5 1.7 0.4 8.7 12.3 comprehensive income Net liability asset 2015 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m Present value of benefit obligation 61.2 30.1 2.8 619.4 713.5 Fair value of plan assets 58.9 32.6 - 639.3 730.8 2.3 2.5 2.8 19.9 17.3 Net liability asset 2014 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m Present value of benefit obligation 60.5 30.5 2.7 598.7 692.4 Fair value of plan assets 58.0 30.4 - 595.6 684.0 Net liability 2.5 0.1 2.7 3.1 8.4 110 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 23.
Pensions continued Movements in present value of benefit obligation 2015 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m At 28 September 2014 60.5 30.5 2.7 598.7 692.4 Exchange differences 3.5 - 0.1 - 3.6 Curtailment gain 0.1 - - - 0.1 Current service cost 0.9 0.1 0.2 - 1.2 Member contributions 0.2 - - - 0.2 Interest cost on benefit obligation 1.7 1.2 - 23.6 26.5 Benefits paid 1.1 0.9 0.1 18.9 21.0 Remeasurement gains losses 2.6 0.8 0.1 16.0 17.9 At 27 September 2015 61.2 30.1 2.8 619.4 713.5 Weighted average duration of the liabilities 21 years 20 years 15 years 22 years 2014 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m At 29 September 2013 54.8 26.6 2.2 562.4 646.0 Exchange differences 3.7 - - - 3.7 Curtailment gain 0.4 - - - 0.4 Settlement gain - - - 1.3 1.3 Current service cost 0.8 0.1 0.1 - 1.0 Member contributions 0.2 - - - 0.2 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2.2 1.2 0.1 25.1 28.6 Benefits paid 1.2 0.7 0.1 19.1 21.1 Remeasurement gains losses 7.8 3.3 0.4 31.6 43.1 At 28 September 2014 60.5 30.5 2.7 598.7 692.4 Weighted average duration of the liabilities 23 years 20 years 14 years 22 years Movements in fair value of plan assets 2015 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m At 28 September 2014 58.0 30.4 - 595.6 684.0 Exchange differences 3.4 - - - 3.4 Interest income on plan assets 1.7 1.2 - 24.1 27.0 Return on scheme assets excluding interest income 2.7 0.3 - 18.1 21.1 Employer contributions 0.8 1.6 - 20.4 22.8 Member contributions 0.2 - - - 0.2 Benefits paid 1.1 0.9 - 18.9 20.9 At 27 September 2015 58.9 32.6 - 639.3 730.8 2014 ROI NI France GB Total m m m m m At 29 September 2013 53.2 26.7 0.1 546.7 626.7 Exchange differences 3.4 - - - 3.4 Interest income on plan assets 2.1 1.2 - 25.1 28.4 Return on scheme assets excluding interest income 6.3 1.6 - 22.9 30.8 Employer contributions 0.8 1.6 - 20.0 22.4 Member contributions 0.2 - - - 0.2 Benefits paid 1.2 0.7 0.1 19.1 21.1 At 28 September 2014 58.0 30.4 - 595.6 684.0 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 111 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 23.
Pensions continued Categories of scheme assets as a percentage of the fair value of total scheme assets 2015 2015 ROI NI France GB Total Total m m m m m % UK equities 1.9 7.7 - 51.1 60.7 8 Overseas equities 23.2 7.8 - 20.4 51.4 7 Properties - - - 4.4 4.4 1 Corporate bonds - 5.0 - 283.4 288.4 40 Fixed interest gilts 30.1 5.1 - - 35.2 5 Index linked gilts - 6.5 - 273.5 280.0 38 Cash and other assets 3.7 0.5 - 6.5 10.7 1 Total 58.9 32.6 - 639.3 730.8 100 2014 2014 ROI NI France GB Total Total m m m m m % UK equities 0.9 7.4 - 98.8 107.1 16 Overseas equities 23.9 7.6 - 47.5 79.0 11 Properties - - - 5.5 5.5 1 Corporate bonds - 4.6 - 196.2 200.8 29 Fixed interest gilts 29.3 4.6 - - 33.9 5 Index linked gilts - 6.1 - 245.7 251.8 37 Cash and other assets 3.9 0.1 - 1.9 5.9 1 Total 58.0 30.4 - 595.6 684.0 100 The fair values of the above equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets whereas the fair values of properties are not based on quoted market prices.
Normal contributions of 0.8m are expected to be paid into the defined benefit pension schemes during the 2016 financial year.
Additional contributions of 21.5m are expected to be paid into the defined benefit pension schemes during the 2016 financial year, of which 16.5m is expected to be paid by the group and 5.0m by the partnership.
Trade and other payables current 2015 2014 m m Trade payables 261.9 248.4 Other payables 23.6 4.5 Accruals and deferred income 80.7 81.5 Other taxes and social security 51.2 45.3 417.4 379.7 Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on 60-90 day terms.
112 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, borrowings and overdrafts, and cash and cash equivalents.
These financial instruments are used to manage interest rate and currency exposures, funding and liquidity requirements and share price exposure arising under the groups employee incentive schemes.
Other financial instruments which arise directly from the groups operations include trade receivables and payables see notes 18 and 24 respectively.
It is, and has always been, the groups policy that no derivative is entered into for trading or speculative purposes.
The main risks arising from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Additionally, the group is exposed to commodity price risk and share price risk.
The board of directors review and agree policies for managing these risks as summarised below.
Interest rate risk The groups policy is to manage its interest cost by maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The groups policy is to have an average over the next three years of between 25% and 80% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
To manage this, the group enters into interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements to hedge underlying debt obligations.
At 27 September 2015 after taking into account the effect of these instruments, approximately 77% of the groups borrowings are at a fixed rate of interest 2014: 75%.
Interest rate risk table The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, on the groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings and equity through the change in fair values of applicable derivative instruments.
Increase Effect on Effect on decrease in profit loss equity basis points before tax m m 2015 Sterling 200 0.6 25.7 200 0.6 28.8 Euro 200 1.4 3.9 200 1.4 4.4 2014 Sterling 200 0.1 25.0 200 0.1 29.1 Euro 200 0.2 5.6 200 0.1 6.5 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is primarily in respect of exposure to fluctuations to the sterling euro, sterling US dollar and euro US dollar rates of exchange.
The group has operations in euro-denominated countries and finances these partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings and cross-currency swaps which hedge the translation risk of net investments in foreign operations.
Additionally cash generation from euro-denominated operations can be utilised to meet euro payment obligations in sterling denominated companies, providing a natural hedge.
The group also has transactional exposures arising from purchases of prime materials, capital expenditure and interest costs in currencies other than the functional currency of the individual group entities.
Non functional currency purchases and interest costs are mainly in the currencies of US dollars and euros.
As at 27 September 2015 the group has hedged 62% 2014: 72% of forecast net exposures 12 months in advance using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Where funding is raised in a currency other than the currency ultimately required by the group, cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to convert the cash flows to the required currency.
These swaps have the same duration and other critical terms as the underlying borrowing.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and euro exchange rates, with all other variables held constant, of the groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities and the groups equity due to changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 113 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Overview continued Increase Effect on Effect on decrease in profit equity currency rate before tax % m m 2015 Sterling euro 10 1.9 4.5 10 1.9 4.5 Sterling US dollar 10 0.4 1.1 10 0.4 1.1 Euro US dollar 10 0.4 1.4 10 0.4 1.4 2014 Sterling euro 10 2.1 4.0 10 2.1 4.0 Sterling US dollar 10 0.4 1.0 10 0.4 1.0 Euro US dollar 10 0.5 1.9 10 0.5 1.9 Credit risk The group trades only with recognised creditworthy third parties.
It is the groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount disclosed in note 18.
For transactions that do not occur in the country of the relevant operating unit, the group does not offer credit terms without the approval of the Director of Finance Shared Services.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
The group maintains a policy on counterparty credit exposures with banks and financial institutions arising from the use of derivatives and financial instruments.
This policy restricts the investment of surplus funds and entering into derivatives to counterparties with a minimum credit rating maintained by either Moodys, Standard & Poors or Fitch.
The level of exposure with counterparties at various ratings levels is also restricted under this policy.
The level of exposure and the credit worthiness of the groups banking counterparties is reviewed regularly to ensure compliance with this policy.
Commodity price risk The main commodity price risk arises in the purchases of prime materials, being polyethylene terephthalate PET, sugar, steel and frozen concentrated orange juice.
Where it is considered commercially advantageous, the group enters into fixed price contracts with suppliers to hedge against unfavourable commodity price changes.
Share schemes equity price risk The group operates several employee incentive share schemes.
It has an exposure to the share price for the schemes in which shares are purchased in the market to satisfy the requirements of the plan.
To hedge this risk the group has entered into equity derivatives against future scheme maturities.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the Britvic plc share price, with all other variables held constant, of the groups profit before tax due to changes in the fair value of the equity derivatives.
Increase Effect on decrease in profit share price before tax % m 2015 10 1.0 10 1.0 2014 10 0.9 10 0.9 114 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Overview continued Liquidity risk The group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using rolling cash flow forecasts.
These forecasts consider the maturity of both its financial investments and financial assets e. g. accounts receivable, other financial assets and projected cash flows from operations.
The objective of the groups liquidity policy is to maintain a balance between continuity of funds and flexibility through the use of bank loans and overdrafts and long-term private placement issuance.
As part of securing the groups medium term funding platform a 400m bank facility has been successfully refinanced during the year.
The bank facility has a maturity of November 2020 and is unsecured.
As at 27 September 2015, the group had drawn down nil 2014: nil under this facility.
In addition to this facility the group had 0.5m of outstanding external borrowings all of which were secured 2014: 1.4m of which 0.8m were secured.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the groups financial liabilities at 27 September 2015 based on contractual undiscounted payments and receipts including interest: Less than 1 to 5 5 years Total 1 year years 2015 m m m m Bank loans 0.2 0.4 - 0.6 Private placement notes 27.6 444.3 206.0 677.9 Derivatives hedging private placement notes - payments 16.2 315.2 156.7 488.1 Derivatives hedging private placement notes - receipts 25.3 361.5 163.0 549.8 18.5 398.0 199.7 616.2 Interest rate swap - payments 0.6 - - 0.6 Interest rate swap - receipts - - - - 0.6 - - 0.6 Trade and other payables excluding other taxes and social security 366.2 - - 366.2 Finance leases 0.1 0.2 - 0.3 Other financial liabilities 13.5 1.0 - 14.5 399.1 399.6 199.7 998.4 Total financial liabilities Less than 1 to 5 5 years Total 1 year years 2014 m m m m Bank loans 0.8 0.6 - 1.4 Private placement notes 44.8 360.0 277.7 682.5 Derivatives hedging private placement notes - payments 34.9 272.1 226.8 533.8 Derivatives hedging private placement notes - receipts 42.0 301.7 241.4 585.1 37.7 330.4 263.1 631.2 Interest rate swap - payments 1.3 0.4 - 1.7 Interest rate swap - receipts 0.2 - - 0.2 1.1 0.4 - 1.5 Trade and other payables excluding other taxes and social security 334.4 - - 334.4 Finance leases 0.1 0.2 - 0.3 Other financial liabilities 1.6 - - 1.6 Total financial liabilities 375.7 331.6 263.1 970.4 In respect of the private placement notes, the periods when the cash flows are expected to occur as shown by the tables above and when they are expected to affect the consolidated income statement are the same.
Details with regard to derivative contracts are included in note 26.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 115 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Hierarchy The group uses the following valuation hierarchy to determine the carrying value of financial instruments that are measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Unless otherwise stated, the valuation basis used to calculate fair value is level 2.
Fair value Carrying value 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 239.6 144.0 239.6 144.0 Loans and receivables 268.4 250.0 268.4 250.0 Derivative financial instruments in hedging relationships 101.3 66.5 101.3 66.5 Derivative financial instruments through profit or loss - 2.6 - 2.6 609.3 463.1 609.3 463.1 Financial liabilities Fixed rate borrowings 596.8 584.5 575.3 561.9 Derivative financial instruments in hedging relationships 11.2 9.5 11.2 9.5 Derivative financial instruments through profit or loss 3.9 1.9 3.9 1.9 Other financial liabilities 264.1 252.0 264.1 252.0 876.0 847.9 854.5 825.3 Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit or loss or available for sale.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are carried at amortised cost.
All derivatives are valued using discounted cash flow analysis using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments.
Forward currency contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on quoted forward exchange rates and the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Equity derivatives are measured using share prices and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts.
The fair value of derivatives also includes the non-performance risk of both Britvic and its derivatives trading counterparties.
As in the prior year, the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities are considered to be reasonable approximations of their fair values, except for fixed rate borrowings.
The fair value of the groups fixed rate interest-bearing borrowings and loans are determined by using discounted cash flow methods using discount rates that reflect the groups borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period.
116 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 25.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities continued Capital management The group defines capital as being net debt plus equity.
The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the groups ability to continue as a going concern and maintain an appropriate capital structure to balance the needs of the group to grow, whilst operating with sufficient headroom within its bank covenants.
The following table summarises the capital of the group: 2015 2014 m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 239.6 144.0 Derivatives hedging balance sheet debt 71.8 38.1 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities held at amortised cost 575.3 563.0 Adjusted net debt 263.9 380.9 Equity 211.8 83.1 Capital 475.7 464.0 The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the groups ability to continue as a going concern and maintain an appropriate capital structure to balance the needs of the group to grow, whilst operating with sufficient headroom within its bank covenants.
The group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions or in order to facilitate acquisitions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group has a number of options available to it including modifying dividend payments to shareholders, returning capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
In this way, the group balances returns to shareholders between long-term growth and current returns whilst maintaining capital discipline in relation to investing activities and taking any necessary action on costs to respond to the current environment.
The group monitors capital on the basis of the adjusted net debt EBITDA ratio.
Adjusted net debt is calculated as being the net of cash and cash equivalents, interest bearing loans and borrowings and the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the US private placement notes.
Adjusted net debt is shown in note 30.
The adjusted net debt EBITDA ratio enables the group to plan its capital requirements in the medium term.
The group uses this measure to provide useful information to financial institutions and investors.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 117 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 26.
Derivatives and hedge relationships As at the 27 September 2015 the group had entered into the following derivative contracts.
2015 2014 m m Consolidated balance sheet Non-current assets: derivative financial instruments Fair value of the USD GBP cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps 44.8 34.4 Fair value of the USD GBP cross-currency floating interest rate swaps 21.5 15.1 Fair value of the GBP euro cross-currency floating interest rate swaps 24.1 15.1 90.4 64.6 Current assets: derivative financial instruments Fair value of the USD GBP cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps 3.4 - Fair value of the USD GBP cross-currency floating interest rate swaps 4.6 0.7 Fair value of the GBP euro cross-currency floating interest rate swaps 1.1 - Fair value of forward currency contracts 1.8 1.2 Fair value of share swaps - 2.6 10.9 4.5 Current liabilities: derivative financial instruments Fair value of forward currency contracts 10.9 1.5 Fair value of forward currency contracts 1.3 - Fair value of foreign exchange swaps 1.3 0.1 Fair value of interest rate swaps 0.3 - 13.8 1.6 Non-current liabilities: derivative financial instruments Fair value of the USD GBP cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps 0.3 7.0 Fair value of the GBP euro cross-currency fixed interest rate swaps - 0.2 Fair value of the USD GBP cross-currency floating interest rate swaps - 0.9 Fair value of equity forwards 1.0 - Fair value of interest rate swaps - 1.8 1.3 9.9 Instruments designated as part of a cash flow hedge relationship.
Instruments designated as part of a net investment hedge relationship.
Instruments designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship.
Derivatives not designated as part of hedge relationships Interest rate swaps The 2009 USPP cross-currency swaps converted an amount of US dollar borrowings into a floating rate euro liability.
To mitigate exposure to changes in euro interest rates on this liability, 75.0m of interest rate swaps were transacted.
These five-year fixed rate swaps had an effective start date of December 2010.
Equity derivatives share swaps and equity forwards The group operates several employee incentive share schemes.
To hedge this risk the group entered into a number of total return share swaps against schemes that matured in 2014.
During the current year the group entered into equity forwards against schemes that mature in 2016 and 2017.
FX swaps As part of operational cash management 110.8m of euro sterling FX swaps were in existence at 27 September 2015 2014: 127.4m.
118 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 26.
Derivatives and hedge relationships continued Derivatives not designated as part of hedge relationships continued Forward currency contracts Ebba As part of operational cash management for expected future payments BR$50.0m of BR$ sterling FX forwards were in existence at 27 September 2015 2014: BR$nil.
Derivatives designated as part of hedge relationships As at the 27 September 2015 these hedging relationships are categorised as follows: Cash flow hedges Forward currency contracts The forward currency contracts hedge the expected future purchases in the period to September 2016 and have been assessed as part of effective cash flow hedge relationships as at 27 September 2015.
All cash flows under forward currency contracts fall due within one year.
Forward currency contracts Ebba As part of the transaction to purchase Ebba on 30 September 2015, the group purchased forward currency contracts to hedge the FX movement on the purchase of the company in Brazilian Real.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps USD GBP cross-currency interest rate swaps The group has a number of cross-currency interest rate swaps relating to the 2007, 2010 and 2014 USPP Notes.
These cross-currency interest rate swaps have the effect of fixing both the value of the USD borrowings into sterling and the rate of interest payable.
The crosscurrency interest rate swaps are designated as part of a cash flow hedge relationship with the Notes.
Cash flows due under these cross-currency interest rate swaps match the interest payment dates and maturity profile of the USPP Notes.
The maturity profile of the USPP Notes can be seen in note 22.
During the year the cash flow hedge has been tested for effectiveness and as a result a 2.1m gain 2014: nil has been recognised in the income statement in respect of ineffectiveness.
Cash flow hedge net unrealised gains losses and related deferred tax assets liabilities : Net unrealised Related deferred tax 2015 gain loss within equity asset liability m m Forward currency contracts 9.2 1.7 2007 cross-currency swaps 3.9 0.8 2010 cross-currency swaps 2.7 0.5 2014 cross-currency swaps 2.1 0.4 Net unrealised Related deferred tax 2014 gain loss within equity asset liability m m Forward currency contracts 0.3 0.1 2007 cross-currency swaps 5.1 1.0 2010 cross-currency swaps 1.4 0.3 2014 cross-currency swaps 1.4 0.3 Fair value hedges Cross-currency interest rate swaps The group has a number of cross-currency interest rate swaps in respect of the 2009 and 2010 USPP Notes.
These instruments swap the principal and interest from fixed rate US dollar into floating rate sterling the 2009 and 2010 USD GBP cross-currency interest rate swaps.
The cross-currency interest rate swaps are designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship with the Notes.
The fair value movements on the 2009 and 2010 USD GBP cross-currency interest rate instruments are recorded in the consolidated income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the Notes where the hedge is deemed effective.
The increase in fair value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps, excluding maturities, of 11.9m 2014: 4.5m decrease has been recognised in finance costs and offset with a similar loss on the borrowings of 12.5m 2014: 4.5m gain.
The net loss of 0.6m 2014: nil represents the ineffective portion on the hedges of the debt.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 119 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 26.
Derivatives and hedge relationships continued Net investment hedges 2009 and 2010 GBP EUR cross-currency interest rate swaps These instruments swap sterling liabilities arising from the 2009 and 2010 USD GBP cross-currency interest rate swaps into euro liabilities and have been designated as part of effective hedges of the net investments in Britvic France and Britvic Ireland.
The GBP EUR cross-currency interest rate swaps, along with the underlying loan instruments, are being used to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these euro investments.
Movements in the fair value of the GBP EUR cross-currency interest rate swaps are taken to equity where they offset foreign exchange movements on the translation of the net investments in Britvic France and Britvic Ireland.
No ineffectiveness has been recognised in the consolidated income statement 2014: nil.
Impact of derivatives and hedge relationships on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2015 2014 m m Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts recycled to the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges Forward currency contracts 0.7 3.2 2007 cross-currency interest rate swaps 11.8 12.5 2010 cross-currency interest rate swaps 4.7 0.5 2014 cross-currency interest rate swaps 4.9 0.7 22.1 10.5 Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement in respect of cash flow hedges 2010 cross-currency interest rate swaps 1.5 - 2014 cross-currency interest rate swaps 0.6 - 2.1 - Gains losses in the period in respect of cash flow hedges Forward currency contracts 8.2 4.1 2007 cross-currency interest rate swaps 10.7 14.0 2010 cross-currency interest rate swaps 3.4 - 2014 cross-currency interest rate swaps 4.2 2.0 10.1 11.9 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Movement on 2009 GBP euro cross-currency interest rate swaps 6.3 9.7 Movement on 2010 GBP euro cross-currency interest rate swaps 3.9 1.4 Exchange movements on translation of foreign operations 11.7 15.0 1.5 3.9 Offsetting amounts recorded in cost of sales.
Offsetting amounts recorded in finance costs.
Other liabilities 2015 2014 m m Current - 0.4 Non-current 1.5 1.5 Firm commitment 1.5 1.9 Other liabilities comprise of a firm commitment that arose on the receipt of the 2009 and 2010 Notes.
120 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 28.
Provisions Restructuring Other Total m m m At 29 September 2013 8.4 2.1 10.5 Provisions made during the year 6.7 - 6.7 Provisions utilised during the year 10.8 0.2 11.0 Unused amounts reversed 0.5 - 0.5 Unwinding of discount - 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences - 0.1 0.1 At 28 September 2014 3.8 1.9 5.7 Provisions made during the year 0.6 - 0.6 Provisions utilised during the year 1.9 0.3 2.2 Unused amounts reversed 1.4 0.1 1.5 Unwinding of discount - 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences - 0.2 0.2 At 27 September 2015 1.1 1.4 2.5 Current 1.1 0.2 1.3 Non-current - 1.2 1.2 Total 1.1 1.4 2.5 Restructuring provisions Restructuring provisions at 27 September 2015 and 28 September 2014, primarily relate to contract termination costs, consultation fees and employee termination benefits, recognised by the group following the implementation of cost initiatives announced in May 2013.
Other provisions Other provisions at 27 September 2015 and 28 September 2014, primarily relate to onerous lease provisions that have arisen due to the exit of certain group premises, and the period over which these will be settled ranges from one to eight years.
Share-based payments Britvic operates a broad base of employee plans as well as executive plans.
In GB Britvic operates SIP plans for all employees, whereas outside of GB Britvic operates both share-settled and cash-settled plans.
Executives participate in ESOP and PSP plans and senior leadership team participates in PSP plans.
The expense recognised for share-based payments in respect of employee services received during the 52 weeks ended 27 September 2015, including national insurance of 2.4m 2014: 1.8m is 10.6m 2014: 9.1m.
This expense arises from transactions which are expected to be equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The Britvic Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an all-employee HMRC approved share plan open to employees based in GB.
Employees are entitled to receive the annual free share award, where granted by the group, provided they are employed by the company on the last day of each financial year and on the award date.
Employees cannot sell these shares for three years from their date of award.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
Employees also have the opportunity to invest up to 138 every four weeks 1,800 per year through the partnership share scheme.
This is deducted from their gross salary.
Matching shares are offered on the basis of one free matching share for each ordinary share purchased with a participants savings, up to a maximum of 50 2014: 50 per four weeks pay period.
Awards made during the period are shown in the table below.
The fair value of these awards is equivalent to the intrinsic value of the shares.
of Weighted shares average fair shares average fair value value Annual free shares award 316,288 655.1p 290,882 692.1p Matching shares award 1 free share for every ordinary share purchased 108,421 700.1p 115,377 689.0p Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 121 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 29.
Share-based payments continued The Britvic Executive Share Option Plan ESOP The ESOP allows for options to buy ordinary shares to be granted to executives.
The option price is the average market price of Britvic plcs shares on the three business days before the date of grant.
Options become exercisable on the satisfaction of the performance condition and remain exercisable until ten years after the date of grant.
Options granted in 2015 The performance condition requires the increase in EPS of 6%-12% pa compound over a three-year performance period for the options to vest.
If the EPS growth is 6%, 20% of the options will vest, with full vesting at 12% EPS growth.
Straight-line apportionment will be applied between these two levels to determine the number of options that vest and no options will vest if the EPS growth is below the lower threshold.
Options granted in 2014 and 2013 The performance condition requires the growth in EPS of 3%-7% pa compound over a three-year performance period in excess of the average growth in RPI over the same period for the options to vest.
If EPS growth is 3% per annum in excess of RPI growth, 25% of the options will vest, with full vesting at 7% EPS growth.
Straight-line apportionment will be applied between these two levels to determine the number of options that vest, and no options will vest if the EPS growth is below the lower threshold.
In some circumstances, at the discretion of the company, an option holder who exercises his her option may receive a cash payment rather than the ordinary shares under option.
The cash payment would be equal to the amount by which the market value of the ordinary shares under option exceeds the option price.
However, it is expected that this plan will be equity-settled and as a consequence has been accounted for as such.
The following table illustrates the movements in the number of share options during the period: Number of Weighted average share options exercise price pence Outstanding at 29 September 2013 7,235,772 347.1 Granted 858,126 664.5 Exercised 1,249,325 281.9 Forfeited 195,906 400.2 Lapsed 1,306,732 464.6 Outstanding at 28 September 2014 5,341,935 383.9 Granted 1,007,632 671.0 Exercised 1,232,994 303.2 Forfeited 31,844 639.1 Lapsed 466,483 331.6 Outstanding at 27 September 2015 4,618,246 471.5 Exercisable at 27 September 2015 1,506,121 268.9 The weighted average share price for share options exercised during the period was 711.8p 2014: 656.2p.
The share options outstanding as at 27 September 2015 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.9 years 2014: 6.9 years and the range of exercise prices was 221.0p 671.0p 2014: 221.0p 664.5p.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period was 101.3p 2014: 127.6p.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking account of the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The Britvic Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP allows for awards of ordinary shares or nil cost options to be made to selected employees with vesting subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, where different performance conditions apply to different groups of employees.
Awards up to and including 2008, and 2013 and later were made in respect of ordinary shares.
Awards granted between 2009 and 2011 were nil cost options.
Nil cost options remain exercisable until seven or ten years after the date of grant for employees based in Ireland and UK respectively, whereas awards of ordinary shares are exercised when vested.
Awards granted in 2015 The performance condition applied to awards granted to members of the senior leadership team is divided 75% and 25% between EPS and the total shareholder return TSR performance conditions respectively.
EPS is the only condition applied to awards granted to senior management team.
The EPS condition is the same as described in the ESOP section for options granted in 2015.
The TSR condition measures the companys TSR relative to a comparator group consisting of 18 companies over a three-year performance period.
The awards will not vest unless the companys position in the comparator group is at least median.
At median 20% will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at upper quartile.
122 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 29.
Share-based payments continued The Britvic Performance Share Plan PSP continued Awards granted in 2014 The performance condition applied to awards granted to members of the senior leadership team is divided equally between return on invested capital ROIC and TSR performance conditions.
The EPS condition is the same as described in the ESOP section for options granted in 2014.
The ROIC performance condition requires the companys three-year average ROIC to be at least 23.8% for the award to vest in full.
If ROIC is 23.4% over the performance period, 25% of the award will vest.
Straight-line apportionment will be applied between these two levels to determine the percentage of awards that vest and no awards will vest if ROIC is below the lower threshold.
In some circumstances, at the discretion of the company, vested awards may be satisfied by a cash payment rather than a transfer of ordinary shares.
The following tables illustrate the movements in the number of PSP shares and nil cost options during the period.
Number of shares and nil cost TSR condition EPS condition ROIC condition options subject to specific conditions Outstanding at 29 September 2013 1,073,682 2,148,089 1,073,679 Granted 191,610 516,014 191,610 Forfeited 49,450 148,530 49,450 Lapsed 299,594 479,426 299,594 Outstanding at 28 September 2014 916,248 2,036,147 916,245 Granted 174,142 861,161 10,365 Exercised 292,376 337,124 22,455 Forfeited 7,086 55,990 4,376 Lapsed - 263,209 398,169 Outstanding at 27 September 2015 790,928 2,240,985 501,610 Weighted average remaining contracted life in years for nil cost options outstanding at: 27 September 2015 6.2 5.7 - 28 September 2014 8.0 7.8 8.0 Weighted average fair value of nil cost options granted during the period: 2015 361.3p 648.0p - 2014 355.9p 624.2p 624.2p Key assumptions used to determine the fair value of ESOP and PSP The fair value of options and awards granted is estimated as at the date of grant, taking account of the terms and conditions upon which shares options were granted.
The fair value of the award subject to the TSR condition is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value of all other awards is calculated using the share price at the date of grant, adjusted for dividends not received during the vesting period.
The following table lists the inputs to the model used in respect of the PSP awards and ESOP options granted during the financial year: 2015 2014 Dividend yield % 3.84 4.15 Expected volatility % 26.5 29.8 Risk-free interest rate % 0.7 1.2 0.8 Expected life of option years 3 - 5 3 - 5 Share price at date of grant pence 648.0 664.0 Exercise price pence 671.0 664.5 The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 123 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 30.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Analysis of net debt 2014 Cash flows Exchange Other 2015 differences movement m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 144.0 96.0 0.4 - 239.6 Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.6 0.1 - - Debt due within one year 22.4 19.0 0.3 0.2 2.9 Debt due after more than one year 539.9 - 34.0 1.5 572.4 419.0 115.6 34.0 1.7 335.7 Derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt 38.1 - 33.7 - 71.8 Adjusted net debt 380.9 115.6 0.3 1.7 263.9 2013 Cash flows Exchange Other 2014 differences movement m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 94.0 50.4 0.4 - 144.0 Bank overdrafts 2.5 1.6 0.2 - 0.7 Debt due within one year 91.6 76.6 11.4 18.8 22.4 Debt due after more than one year 458.3 105.8 6.6 17.6 539.9 458.4 22.8 17.8 1.2 419.0 Derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt 56.1 - 18.0 - 38.1 Adjusted net debt 402.3 22.8 0.2 1.2 380.9 Represents the element of the fair value of interest rate currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the Notes.
This amount has been disclosed separately to demonstrate the impact of foreign exchange movements which are included in debt due after more than one year.
Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2015 Land and Other Total buildings m m m Within one year 2.4 8.2 10.6 After one year but not more than five years 11.0 6.9 17.9 After more than five years 29.5 0.1 29.6 42.9 15.2 58.1 2014 Land and Other Total buildings m m m Within one year 2.3 8.6 10.9 After one year but not more than five years 10.0 14.6 24.6 After more than five years 39.0 - 39.0 51.3 23.2 74.5 124 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 31.
Commitments and contingencies continued Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases are as follows: 2015 2014 m m Within one year 0.1 0.1 After one year but not more than five years 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 Due to the timing of the expiry of the finance lease commitments, there is no material difference between the total future minimum lease payments and their fair value.
Capital commitments At 27 September 2015, the group had commitments of 8.9m 2014: 3.6m relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
Contingent liabilities The group had no material contingent liabilities at 27 September 2015 2014: none.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 125 financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 32.
Related party disclosures The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Britvic plc and the subsidiaries listed in the table below.
Name Principal activity Country of % equity incorporation interest Directly held Britannia Soft Drinks Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Britvic Finance No 2 Limited Financing company Jersey 100 Indirectly held Britvic EMEA Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks England and Wales 100 Britvic Soft Drinks Limited Manufacture and sale of soft drinks England and Wales 100 Robinsons Soft Drinks Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Orchid Drinks Limited Brand licence holder England and Wales 100 Red Devil Energy Drinks Limited Brand licence holder England and Wales 100 Britvic International Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Britvic Overseas Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 Britvic Pensions Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Property Partnership Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Brands LLP Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
1 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
2 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
3 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Asset Company No.
4 Limited Pension funding vehicle England and Wales 100 Britvic Finance Partnership LLP Financing company England and Wales 100 Robinsons Finance No.
2 Limited Financing company England and Wales 100 Britvic Scottish Limited Partnership Pension funding vehicle Scotland 100 Britvic Finance Limited Financing company Jersey 100 Britvic Irish Holdings Limited Holding company Republic of Ireland 100 Britvic Ireland Limited Manufacture and marketing of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100 Britvic Northern Ireland Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100 Aquaporte Limited Supply of water-coolers and bottled water Republic of Ireland 100 Britvic Americas Limited Marketing and distribution of soft drinks Republic of Ireland 100 Britvic Ireland Pension Trust Limited Pension trust company Republic of Ireland 100 Robinsons Finance Limited Financing company Republic of Ireland 100 Counterpoint Wholesale Ireland Limited Wholesale of soft drinks to the licensed trade Republic of Ireland 100 Counterpoint Wholesale NI Limited Wholesale of soft drinks to the licensed trade Northern Ireland 100 Britvic Northern Ireland Pensions Trust Ltd Pension trust company Northern Ireland 100 Britvic North America LLC Marketing and distribution of soft drinks USA 100 Britvic France SNC Holding partnership France 100 Fruit Entreprises SAS Holding company France 100 Fruit SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 Bricfruit SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 Unisource SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 Teisseire SAS Manufacture and sale of soft drinks France 100 Teisseire Benelux SA Marketing and distribution of soft drinks France 100 Britvic Asia PTE.
Ltd Holding company Singapore 100 Britvic India Manufacturing Private Ltd.
Manufacture and sale of soft drinks India 100 Britvic International Support Services Ltd Dormant England and Wales 100 Greenbank Drinks Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 The Really Wild Drinks Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 H. D. Rawlings Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 R. White & Sons Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Idris Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 The Southern Table Water Company Ltd Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Corona Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Beverages Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Sunfresh Soft Drinks Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 The London Essence Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Hooper, Struve & Company Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 British Vitamin Products Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Healthcare Trustee Limited Dormant England and Wales 100 Britvic Licensed Wholesale Limited Dormant Republic of Ireland 100 Britvic Munster Limited Dormant Republic of Ireland 100 Britannia Brasil Holdings Limitada Holding company Brazil 100 126 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements financial statements other information financial statements notes to the consolidated financialstatements continued 32.
Related party disclosures continued Key management personnel are deemed to be the executive and non-executive directors of the company and members of the Executive Committee.
The compensation payable to key management in the period is detailed below.
2015 2014 m m Short-term employee benefits 6.1 6.7 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Share-based payments 2.0 1.5 8.2 8.4 See note 8 for details of directors emoluments.
There were no other related party transactions requiring disclosure in these financial statements.
Acquisition of subsidiary Subsequent to the period end, on 30 September 2015, the group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of the company detailed below.
The acquisition is in line with the strategic direction of the group, specifically to pursue international expansion by capitalising on global opportunities in the kids, family and adult categories, where Britvic has the leading brands in its core markets.
Name Status Principal activity Empresa Brasileira fide Bebidas e Alimentos SA Ebba Trading Manufacture and sale of soft drinks The consideration for the acquisition comprises an initial cash consideration of BR$193.8m 32.4m and a deferred consideration of BR$193.8m 32.4m due on 30 September 2017.
In addition there was a repayment of Ebba debt of BR$192.5m 32.1m subsequent to acquisition.
Due to the recent nature of the acquisition, control of Ebba only passed to Britvic after the year end and therefore the exercise to determine the initial fair value acquisition accounting has not yet been completed.
In addition to the cost of investment outlined above, acquisition costs of 6.5m have been incurred in the current period.
These have been included within exceptional and other items see note 5.
