Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts the determination as to whether control subsidiaries, joint control 1 Accounting policies joint arrangements, or significant influence associates exists Basis of accounting in relation to the investments held by the Group.
This is assessed The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance after taking into account the Groups ability to appoint directors with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by to the entitys board, its relative shareholding compared with the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 other shareholders, any significant contracts or arrangements with applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group financial the entity or its other shareholders and other relevant facts and statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as set out in the circumstances.
The application of this judgement in respect of Financial Review on page 35. the Groups investment in Reynolds American Inc. is explained in note 11: The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policy below on the review of applicable exchange rates for transactions with and financial instruments.
translation of entities in territories where there are restrictions on the free access to foreign currency, or multiple exchange rates: and The preparation of the Group financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the the exemptions taken under IFRS 1 on the first time adoption of reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and IFRS at 1 January 2004 and, in particular, those relating to goodwill the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial on business combinations which are explained in the accounting statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in policies below.
the accounting policies below, together with the related notes to Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience the accounts.
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the The most significant items include: circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience the review of asset values, especially goodwill and impairment may deviate from these estimates and assumptions, which could testing.
The key assumptions used in respect of goodwill and affect the financial statements as the original estimates and impairment testing are the determination of cash-generating units, assumptions are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the the budgeted cash flows of these units, the long-term growth rate circumstances change.
for cash flow projections and the rate used to discount the cash flow projections.
These are described in note 9: Basis of consolidation the estimation of and accounting for retirement benefit costs.
The consolidated financial information includes the financial The determination of the carrying value of assets and liabilities, as statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. and its subsidiary well as the charge for the year, and amounts recognised in other undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its comprehensive income, involves judgements made in conjunction associates and joint arrangements.
These involve estimates about uncertain A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
The Group controls future events based on the environment in different countries, an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable including life expectancy of scheme members, salary and pension returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect increases, inflation, as well as discount rates and asset values at the those returns through its power over the entity.
The assumptions used by the Group and sensitivity analysis are described in note 12: Associates comprise investments in undertakings, which are not subsidiary undertakings or joint arrangements, where the Groups the estimation of amounts to be recognised in respect of taxation interest in the equity capital is long term and over whose operating and legal matters, and the estimation of other provisions for liabilities and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
and charges are subject to uncertain future events, may extend They are accounted for using the equity method.
over several years and so the amount and or timing may differ from current assumptions.
The accounting policy for taxation is explained Joint arrangements comprise contractual arrangements where two below.
The recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities, together or more parties have joint control and where decisions regarding with a note of unrecognised amounts, are shown in note 13, and a the relevant activities of the entity require unanimous consent.
contingent tax asset is explained in note 6 b.
Other provisions for Joint operations are jointly-controlled arrangements where the liabilities and charges are as set out in note 22.
The accounting policy parties to the arrangement have rights to the underlying assets and on contingent liabilities, which are not provided for, is set out below obligations for the underlying liabilities relating to the arrangement.
and the contingent liabilities of the Group are explained in note 30.
The Group accounts for its share of the assets, liabilities, income The application of these accounting policies to the payments made and expenses of any such arrangement.
Joint ventures comprise and credits recognised under the Master Settlement Agreement by arrangements where the parties to the arrangement have rights to Reynolds American Inc. is described in note 5: the net assets of the arrangement.
They are accounted for using the equity method.
the definition of adjusting items, which are separately disclosed as memorandum information, is explained below and the impact of The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are these on the calculation of adjusted earnings is described in note 7: included from the date of acquisition of a controlling interest at which date, for the purposes of consolidation, the purchase consideration the estimation of the fair values of acquired net assets arising is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, including in a business combination and the allocation of the purchase intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair value.
consideration between the underlying net assets acquired, including Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Similarly, the results intangible assets other than goodwill, on the basis of their fair of associates and joint arrangements are included from the date of values.
These estimates are prepared in conjunction with the advice acquiring significant influence or joint control respectively.
of independent valuation experts where appropriate.
The relevant transactions for 2015 are described in note 26 and in note 11: British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 131 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued Revenue 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue principally comprises sales of cigarettes and other tobacco The results of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint products to external customers.
Revenue excludes duty, excise and arrangements which have been sold during the year are included up to other taxes and is after deducting rebates, returns and other similar the date of disposal.
The profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference discounts.
Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards to the net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased of ownership are transferred to a third party.
goodwill previously consolidated in the balance sheet.
Retirement benefit costs Inter-company balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains arising from inter-company transactions, are eliminated in preparing The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution the consolidated financial statements.
The net deficit or surplus for each defined benefit pension scheme is calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits, Foreign currencies based on the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the The functional currency of the parent company is sterling and this is balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets adjusted, also the presentation currency of the Group.
The income and cash flow where appropriate, for any surplus restrictions or the effect of statements of Group undertakings expressed in currencies other than minimum funding requirements.
sterling are translated to sterling using exchange rates applicable to Actuarial gains and losses, changes in unrecognised scheme surpluses the dates of the underlying transactions.
Average rates of exchange in and minimum funding requirements are recognised in full through each year are used where the average rate approximates the relevant other comprehensive income.
Past service costs or credits resulting exchange rate at the date of the underlying transactions.
Assets and from amendments to benefits are recognised immediately.
liabilities of Group undertakings are translated at the applicable rates of exchange at the end of each year.
In territories where there are The Group also has certain post-retirement healthcare schemes restrictions on the free access to foreign currency or multiple exchange and they are accounted for on a similar basis to the defined benefit rates, the applicable rates of exchange are regularly reviewed.
For hyperinflationary countries, the financial statements in local For defined benefit schemes, the actuarial cost charged to profit from currency are adjusted to reflect the impact of local inflation prior to operations consists of current service cost, net interest on the net translation into sterling.
defined benefit liability or asset, past service cost and the impact of any settlements.
The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint arrangements translated at average Some benefits are provided through defined contribution schemes and and closing rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences payments to these are charged as an expense as they fall due.
arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates of exchange Share-based payments of overseas net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any differences that have arisen since 1 January 2004 are presented as a separate The Group has equity-settled and cash-settled share-based component of equity.
As permitted under IFRS 1, any differences prior compensation plans.
to that date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at Where a disposal of an investment in a Group undertaking results in the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the a loss of control of a subsidiary undertaking, the loss of significant equity-settled share-based payments is expensed over the vesting influence over an associated company or the loss of joint control over period, based on the Groups estimate of awards that will eventually a joint arrangement, the cumulative amount of the related foreign vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total shareholder exchange differences deferred in the separate component of equity returns, the fair value at date of grant reflects these conditions, whereas are recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on earnings per share vesting conditions are reflected in the calculation disposal is recognised.
These related exchange differences comprise of awards that will eventually vest over the vesting period.
For cashthe exchange differences on all amounts deemed to be part of the settled share-based payments, a liability equal to the portion of the net investment in the undertaking, which are recycled to the income services received is recognised at its current fair value determined at statement when a disposal occurs.
For partial disposals of subsidiary each balance sheet date.
Fair value is measured by the use of the Blackundertakings the related exchange differences are reclassified within Scholes option pricing model, except where vesting is dependent equity.
For all other partial disposals the proportional share of the on market conditions when the Monte-Carlo option pricing model is related exchange differences is recycled to the income statement.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised in the functional exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
currency of each entity in the Group using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting Research and development from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of Research expenditure is charged to income in the year in which it foreign currency assets and liabilities at year end rates of exchange are is incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to income in the recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity year it is incurred, unless it meets the recognition criteria of IAS 38 as qualifying cash flow hedges, on inter-company net investment Intangible Assets.
loans and qualifying net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange gains or losses recognised in the income statement are included in profit from operations or net finance costs depending on the underlying transactions that gave rise to these exchange differences.
132 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Intangible assets other than goodwill 1 Accounting policies continued The intangible assets shown on the Group balance sheet consist mainly Taxation of trademarks and similar intangibles, including certain intellectual Taxation is that chargeable on the profits for the period, together with property, acquired by the Groups subsidiary undertakings and deferred taxation.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax Acquired trademarks and similar assets are carried at cost less laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Trademarks with indefinite the countries where the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
arrangements operate and generate taxable income.
Intangible assets other than goodwill classified as held-for-sale are Deferred taxation is provided in full using the liability method for not amortised.
Other trademarks and similar assets are amortised on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and a straight-line basis over their remaining useful lives, consistent with liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amount used for the pattern of economic benefits expected to be received, which do taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences not exceed 20 years.
Any impairments of trademarks are recognised arising on investments in Group undertakings, except where the in the income statement but increases in trademark values are timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by not recognised.
the Group and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and future.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is impairment, and, with the exception of global software solutions, is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the amortised on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from three years asset can be utilised.
As required under IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred to five years.
Global software solutions are software assets designed tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
to be implemented on a global basis and used as a standard solution Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted by all of the operating companies in the Group.
These assets are or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected amortised on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 10 years.
to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax The investments in associates and joint ventures shown in the Group liability is settled.
balance sheet include trademarks arising from the combination of Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it Brown & Williamson B&W and R. J. Reynolds RJR in 2004 to form relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly Reynolds American Inc. RAI, as well as those arising on the acquisition in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income by RAI of Conwood in 2006 and Lorillard in 2015.
Most of the carrying or changes in equity.
value of these assets relates to intangibles which are deemed to have indefinite lives and each trademark is subject to an annual impairment The Group has exposures in respect of the payment or recovery of a test.
Certain minor trademarks are being amortised over their number of taxes.
Liabilities or assets for these payments or recoveries remaining lives.
are recognised at such time as an outcome becomes probable and when the amount can reasonably be estimated.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Goodwill depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is calculated on a straightGoodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and is considered to have line basis to write off the assets over their useful economic life.
an indefinite life subject to impairment reviews.
Any impairment of No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets classified as goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not held-for-sale.
Freehold and leasehold property are depreciated at rates subsequently reversed.
between 2.5% and 4% per annum, and plant and equipment at rates Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a subsidiary, between 7% and 25% per annum.
associate or joint venture over the Groups share of the fair value Capitalised interest of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is stated at cost net of Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, accumulated impairment losses and recognised amortisation prior to construction or production of intangible assets or plant, property and 1 January 2004. equipment that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill its intended use or sale, and for which the commencement date for against reserves.
Goodwill acquired from 1998 to 31 December 2003 capitalisation was on or after 1 January 2009, are capitalised as part was capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
of the cost of the asset, in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
The Groups previous policy was to expense such borrowing costs as As permitted under IFRS 1, in respect of acquisitions prior to they were incurred.
1 January 2004, the classification and accounting treatment of business combinations was not amended on transition to IFRS.
Leased assets Goodwill previously written off direct to reserves is not recycled to the Assets where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary, associate or joint of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases and venture to which it relates.
are included as part of property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
assets are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of In respect of associates and joint ventures, goodwill is included in the their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments carrying value of the investment in the associated company or joint at inception of the lease, then depreciated over the shorter of the venture.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the lease term and their estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the of capital and finance charge elements and the finance element is profit or loss on disposal.
charged to the income statement.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 133 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued Loans and receivables 1 Accounting policies continued These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Rental payments under operating leases are charged to the income payments that are not quoted in an active market.
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Cash and cash equivalents Where arrangements are entered into which, while they are not in the Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on legal form of a lease, are in substance a lease under IFRIC 4, then they call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments including are recognised on the same basis as the leased assets above.
investments in certain money market funds.
Cash equivalents normally Impairment of non-financial assets comprise instruments with maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events indicate that the are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current carrying amount of a cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
borrowings in the liabilities section on the balance sheet.
In addition, assets that have indefinite useful lives are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the Apart from available-for-sale investments, non-derivative financial assets carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less costs to are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject sell and its value in use.
to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
These estimates for irrecoverable amounts are recognised when A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets there is objective evidence that the full amount receivable will not be that generates cash flows which are largely independent of the cash collected according to the original terms of the asset.
Such evidence flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At the acquisition date, might include financial difficulties of the debtor, defaults of payment any goodwill acquired is allocated to the relevant cash-generating or significant overdue balances.
For interest-bearing assets, their unit or group of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Available-for-sale acquisition for the purpose of impairment testing of goodwill.
investments are stated at fair value, with changes in fair value being Impairment of financial assets recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When such Financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date, or whenever investments are derecognised e. g. through disposal or become events indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously recognised in In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, a other comprehensive income, are reclassified to the income statement significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment within finance income.
Dividend and interest income on available-forbelow its cost is considered as an indicator that the investment sale investments are included within finance income when the Groups is impaired.
right to receive payments is established.
Inventories Fair values for quoted investments are based on observable market prices.
If there is no active market for a financial asset, the fair value Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
is established by using valuation techniques principally involving Cost is based on the weighted average cost incurred in acquiring discounted cash flow analysis.
inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, which will include raw materials, direct labour and overheads, where Non-derivative financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes to completion and sale.
Tobacco inventories which have an operating accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
cycle that exceeds 12 months are classified as current assets, consistent Derivative financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, and with recognised industry practice.
subsequently measured, at fair value, which includes accrued interest Financial instruments receivable and payable where relevant.
Changes in their fair values are Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the recognised as follows: Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant for derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, the changes instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such in their fair values are recognised directly in other comprehensive provisions.
Such assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are income, to the extent that they are effective, with the ineffective expected to be realised or settled within 12 months after the balance portion being recognised in the income statement.
If not, they are classified as non-current.
hedged item results in a non-financial asset, the accumulated gains Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair and losses, previously recognised in other comprehensive income, are value, plus directly attributable transaction costs where applicable, with included in the initial carrying value of the asset basis adjustment subsequent measurement as set out below.
and recognised in the income statement in the same periods as the hedged item.
Where the underlying transaction does not result in Non-derivative financial assets are classified on initial recognition as such an asset, the accumulated gains and losses are reclassified to the available-for-sale investments, loans and receivables or cash and cash income statement in the same periods as the hedged item: equivalents as follows: for derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges, the carrying Available-for-sale investments value of the hedged item is adjusted for the fair value changes Available-for-sale investments are those non-derivative financial attributable to the risk being hedged, with the corresponding entry assets that cannot be classified as loans and receivables or cash and being made in the income statement.
The changes in fair value of cash equivalents.
these derivatives are also recognised in the income statement: 134 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales of 1 Accounting policies continued materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, for derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investments in services and fees, are based on normal commercial practices which foreign operations, the changes in their fair values are recognised would apply between independent businesses.
Royalty income, less directly in other comprehensive income, to the extent that they related expenditure, is included in the region in which the licensor are effective, with the ineffective portion being recognised in the is based.
Where non-derivatives such as foreign currency borrowings are designated as net investment hedges, the relevant Adjusting items exchange differences are similarly recognised.
The accumulated gains Adjusting items are significant items in the profit from operations, net and losses are reclassified to the income statement when the foreign finance costs, taxation and the Groups share of the post-tax results operation is disposed of: and of associates and joint ventures which individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are relevant to an understanding of the Groups for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not underlying financial performance.
While the disclosure of adjusting designated as hedges, the changes in their fair values are recognised items is not required by IFRS, these items are separately disclosed either in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
as memorandum information on the face of the income statement In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to and in the segmental analyses, or in the notes to the accounts document prospectively the relationship between the item being as appropriate.
hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to The Group believes that these items are useful to users of the Group demonstrate an assessment of the relationship between the hedged financial statements in helping them to understand the underlying item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will business performance and are used to derive the Groups principal be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is non-GAAP measures of adjusted profit from operations and adjusted reperformed periodically to ensure that the hedge has remained, and is diluted earnings per share.
expected to remain, highly effective.
Provisions Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable as a result of a past event exists at the balance sheet date, it is probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in equity that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the until the transaction takes place, when they are reclassified to the obligation and a reasonable estimate can be made of the amount of income statement in the same manner as for cash flow hedges as the obligation.
When a hedged future transaction is no longer Contingent liabilities and contingent assets expected to occur, any related gains and losses, previously recognised Subsidiaries and associates companies are defendants in tobaccoin other comprehensive income, are immediately reclassified to the related and other litigation.
Provision for this litigation including income statement.
legal costs would be made at such time as an unfavourable outcome Derivative fair value changes recognised in the income statement are became probable and the amount could be reasonably estimated.
either reflected in arriving at profit from operations if the hedged item Contingent assets are possible assets whose existence will only be is similarly reflected or in finance costs.
confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the entity Dividends and are not recognised as assets until the realisation of income is Final dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are virtually certain.
recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the Where a provision has not been recognised, the Group records its period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys external legal fees and other external defence costs for tobacco-related shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, while interim dividend and other litigation as these costs are incurred.
distributions are recognised in the period in which the dividends are declared and paid.
Repurchase of share capital When share capital is repurchased the amount of consideration paid, Segmental analysis including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction The Group is organised and managed on the basis of its geographic from equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, or shares regions.
These are the reportable segments for the Group as they purchased for the employee share ownership trusts, are classified as form the focus of the Groups internal reporting systems and are treasury shares and presented as a deduction from total equity.
the basis used by the chief operating decision maker, identified as the Management Board, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The Group is primarily a single product business providing cigarettes and other tobacco products.
While the Group has clearly differentiated brands, global segmentation between a wide portfolio of brands is not part of the regular internally reported financial information.
The results of Next Generation Products are not currently material to the Group.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 135 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes on the Accounts continued IFRS 16 Leases.
This standard was finalised and published in January 1 Accounting policies continued 2016 and is a major revision to the way that entities will account for Future changes to accounting policies leases.
The distinction between operating leases and finance leases Certain changes to IFRS will be applicable to the Group financial enshrined in current accounting requirements IAS 17 is removed with statements in future years.
Set out below are those which are the effect that virtually all leasing arrangements will be brought on considered to be most relevant to the Group.
to the balance sheet as financial obligations and right-to-use assets.
Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation, but IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
This standard was finalised and published the anticipated impact from restatement on the Groups operating in July 2014 as the replacement for IAS 39 Financial Instruments: profit and net assets for 2015 and 2014 is not expected to be Recognition and Measurement.
Further due diligence will be carried out material, although assets and liabilities would have been grossed up before implementation, but the anticipated impact from restatement by approximately 220 million in both years based on current leasing on the Groups reported profit and equity for 2015 and 2014 is not commitments as disclosed in note 30.
The Standard is retrospective in expected to be material.
The Standard is largely retrospective in application, but allows for implementation either as a single cumulative application.
Subject to EU endorsement, the expected mandatory amount at the date of initial application or as an adjustment to each effective date of implementation is 1 January 2018. prior reporting period.
Subject to EU endorsement, the expected IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This standard was mandatory effective date of implementation is 1 January 2019. finalised and published in May 2014 with the intention to harmonise In addition, a number of other interpretations and revisions to IFRS and US GAAP through a single revenue recognition standard.
existing standards have been issued which will be applicable to Further due diligence will be carried out before implementation, but the Groups financial statements in future years, but will not have a the anticipated impact from restatement on the Groups operating material effect on reported profit or equity or on the disclosures in the profit for 2015 and 2014 is not expected to be material.
this standard may require changes to the allocation of costs between operating expenses and deductions from revenue, for example, payments to customers currently classed as expenses.
The Standard is retrospective in application.
Subject to EU endorsement, the expected mandatory effective date of implementation is 1 January 2018.
136 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015
