Notes to the Financial Statements Year to Year to 1.
Basis of preparation 31 March 31 March Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group 2015 2014 Note m m also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which Cash flows from operating activities comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
Operating profit 440.3 445.4 Depreciation 104.0 105.6 The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed Amortisation 34.6 33.0 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Net impairment charges 4.1 12.3 Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2.1 1.3 under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value Gain on derivative instruments 2.0 3.8 through profit or loss.
Charges in respect of employee share incentive schemes 21.0 25.4 Payment proceeds from settlement of equity swap contracts 0.2 15.7 Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation was effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, Increase in inventories 15.1 68.2 and has been adopted for the first time by the Group from 1 April 2014.
This has not had a material impact on the financial Increase in receivables 43.8 73.8 Increase in payables 23.1 45.2 statements of the Group.
No other new standards, amendments and interpretations have been adopted for the first time by Cash generated from operating activities 568.1 535.5 the Group during the year ended 31 March 2015.
Interest received 3.8 3.4 Interest paid 2.6 2.6 As at 31 March 2015, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant to the Taxation paid 114.4 111.1 Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: Net cash generated from operating activities 454.9 425.2 IFRS 9 Financial instruments Cash flows from investing activities This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 replaces the guidance Purchase of property, plant and equipment 127.8 129.5 in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The new Purchase of intangible assets 27.9 24.5 standard retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 3.0 cost, fair value through OCI and fair value through P&L.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, however Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 1.3 it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
Any potential impact of this new standard will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 2.6 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Net cash outflow from investing activities 154.4 153.6 This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue standard to be applied across all industries.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service.
IFRS 15 establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from Cash flows from financing activities an entitys contracts with customers.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, however it is not currently Dividends paid in the year 11 144.9 130.7 endorsed by the European Union and the IASB has recently proposed to defer the effective date to 1 January 2018.
Any potential impact of this Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 0.4 new standard will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
Capital contributions by non-controlling interest 0.4 0.7 Payment to acquire additional interest in subsidiary from non-controlling interest 3.4 Basis of consolidation Issue of ordinary share capital 2.8 1.2 Sale of own shares by ESOP trusts 1.7 The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries, presented Purchase of own shares by ESOP trusts 19.2 24.7 as a single economic entity.
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using Net cash outflow from financing activities 164.7 151.8 consistent accounting policies across the Group.
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 135.8 119.8 Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity Effect of exchange rate changes 13.9 13.9 when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 402.5 296.6 those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 552.2 402.5 to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period during which the Group had control.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised profits on transactions between Group Analysis of Net Cash companies are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries from nonAs at As at controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of 31 March 31 March net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals of interests in subsidiaries to non-controlling 2015 2014 Note m m interests are also recorded in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents as per the Balance Sheet 18 617.4 545.5 Bank overdrafts 21 65.2 143.0 Net cash 552.2 402.5 12 1211 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Key sources of estimation and judgement Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgements at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below: Put option liability over non-controlling interest The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China is based on the contractual agreement and requires the application of key assumptions around both the future performance of the Groups business in China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate in China, taking into account the risk free rate in China.
Refer to notes 19 and 25 for further details of the put option liability.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Refer to note 13 for further details of property, plant and equipment.
Impairment of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset The fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of the intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence.
The value-in-use calculation is prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product division.
Refer to note 12 for further details of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset.
Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required.
When calculating the inventory provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials.
Refer to note 16 for further details of the carrying value of inventory.
12 1222 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Key sources of estimation and judgement Key sources of estimation and judgement continued Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain Income and deferred taxes judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Judgement is required in determining the provision for income of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgements taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including such determination is made.
Refer to notes 9 and 14 for further details of income and deferred tax balances.
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities Impairment of trade receivables are discussed below: The Group is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of trade receivables.
When assessing impairment of trade receivables, management considers factors including the ageing profile of debtors as well as any specific known problems Put option liability over non-controlling interest or risks.
Given global economic conditions and the range of countries the Group trades in, unanticipated future events may The calculation of the fair value of the put option over the non-controlling interest in the Groups business in China is based on occur that could impact the appropriateness of the assessment made as to the recoverability of the Groups trade receivables.
the contractual agreement and requires the application of key assumptions around both the future performance of the Groups Refer to notes 15 and 25 for further details on the net carrying value and credit quality of trade receivables.
business in China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate in China, taking into account the risk free rate in China.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the Group are: Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying a Revenue amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with customers.
Wholesale sales are recognised Impairment of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected The fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate returns and allowances.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which of the intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group is typically on the basis of production volumes.
as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence.
The value-in-use calculation is prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance In arrangements where the Group acts as a purchasing agent to facilitate the procurement of Burberry branded products of the Beauty product division.
on behalf of its licensees, the purchases and sales from the supplier to the licensee are not recorded as transactions by the Group.
Any costs incurred by the Group are recorded as operating expenses and any agency fees receivable are recorded Inventory provisioning as operating income.
The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
b Segment reporting When calculating the inventory provision, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as applying Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials.
Refer to note 16 for further Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been details of the carrying value of inventory.
identified as the Board of Directors.
c Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Contingent payments are remeasured at fair value through the Income Statement.
All transaction costs are expensed to the Income Statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity, and are initially measured either at fair value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
The choice of the basis of measurement is an accounting policy choice for each individual business combination.
The excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
12 1233 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued d Share schemes The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share based incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding increase in equity.
When options are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in an Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium accounts.
e Leases The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment.
Determining whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Gross rental expenditure income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases.
Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued for on that basis.
Amounts paid to received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments accrued income on the lease contract.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance Sheet in accruals and deferred income and recognised over the term of the lease.
Finance leases where the Group is a lessee are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Interest is charged to the Income Statement and credited to the lease liability using the effective interest rate method.
Lease liabilities are held in Trade and other payables on the Balance Sheet.
The capitalised leased assets are held in Property, plant and equipment on the Balance Sheet, and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the leased asset.
f Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
12 1244 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued d Share schemes g Pension costs The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes, under which services are received from Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share based in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance h Intangible fixed assets conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market Goodwill conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible fixed asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated at that date.
Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful economic life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if The cost of the share based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised increase in equity.
on goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
When options are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in an Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets such as key received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium money is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are accounts.
expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful economic life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying e Leases agreement and the nature of the asset.
The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to Computer software ownership of an asset are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Gross rental expenditure income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the Software costs are amortised by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful economic lives, which are up to leases.
Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued five years.
i Property, plant and equipment Amounts paid to received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments accrued Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, income on the lease contract.
Lease incentives, typically rent free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance based on historical revalued amounts prior to the adoption of IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any Sheet in accruals and deferred income and recognised over the term of the lease.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost Finance leases where the Group is a lessee are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value of the includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Interest is charged to the Income Statement and credited intended use.
to the lease liability using the effective interest rate method.
The capitalised leased assets are held in Property, plant and equipment on the Balance Sheet, and are Depreciation depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the leased asset.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: f Dividend distributions Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated becomes a committed obligation.
Interim Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years dividends are recognised when paid.
Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years Short life leasehold improvements Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
12 1255 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued j Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment has been previously recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
k Investment properties Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.
l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
m Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
For inventories relating to the Beauty product division, including raw materials and finished goods, cost is measured using a weighted average method.
For all other product divisions, the cost of inventories is determined using a first-in, first-out FIFO method, taking account of the fashion seasons for which the inventory was offered.
Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
n Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
12 1266 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued j Impairment of non-financial assets n Taxation continued Assets that have an indefinite useful economic life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs net basis.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an o Provisions impairment has been previously recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation k Investment properties can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks reflected purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line basis in future cash flow estimates.
over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.
Property obligations l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised held for sale.
for that portion of the lease excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through value-in-use.
Restructuring costs Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has less cost to sell.
Examples of restructuring related costs include employee termination payments, contract termination penalties and onerous contract payments.
Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, p Share capital design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
For inventories relating Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown to the Beauty product division, including raw materials and finished goods, cost is measured using a weighted average method.
in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of n Taxation any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the q Financial instruments Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
However, if the temporary Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that except for derivatives, which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting, and are held at at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet due to the short maturity of these instruments.
date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
12 1277 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: Fair value measurement 2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy Cash and cash equivalents 18 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Trade and other receivables 15 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Trade and other payables 19 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Borrowings 21 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Put option liability over non-controlling interest 19 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 3 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Equity swap contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Onerous lease provision 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A 1 Cash flow hedge accounting is applied to the extent it is achievable.
2 The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value.
The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
The different levels are defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual events or transactions.
The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including Level 3 fair values.
The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS.
The classification level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically.
Significant valuation issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve as at the balance sheet date.
All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on observable market data.
The fair value of the put option liability over non-controlling interest is derived using a present value calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
This valuation technique has been adopted as it most closely mirrors the contractual arrangement.
The Groups primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: Cash and cash equivalents On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less, held with banks and liquidity funds.
In the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
12 1288 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued q Financial instruments continued The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet Fair value date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest measurement method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective 2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount Cash and cash equivalents 18 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade and other receivables 15 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Trade and other payables 19 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Trade and other payables Borrowings 21 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Put option liability over non-controlling interest 19 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 3 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Equity swap contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Onerous lease provision 20 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A Borrowings including overdrafts Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated 1 Cash flow hedge accounting is applied to the extent it is achievable.
at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised 2 The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value.
in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value hierarchy as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
The different levels are defined as follows: after the balance sheet date.
Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the Put option liabilities over non-controlling interest measurement date.
Put options over shares in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests are recognised initially at fair value through equity when granted.
They are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Income Statement as other finance expenses or income.
Derivative instruments Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group also may designate foreign events or transactions.
The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including currency borrowings as a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging requirements of IFRS.
Significant valuation instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The as at the balance sheet date.
All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on observable method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, market data.
and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or 2 hedges of highly probable forecast The fair value of the put option liability over non-controlling interest is derived using a present value calculation, incorporating transactions cash flow hedges : or 3 classified as held for trading.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
12 1299 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued Derivative instruments continued The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are recycled in the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income Statement within net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading.
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the subsequent change to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest depending upon the nature of the instrument.
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income and will be reclassified to the Income Statement when the foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of.
r Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, except where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Translation of the results of overseas businesses The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average rate Closing rate Year to Year to As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Euro 1.28 1.19 1.38 1.21 US Dollar 1.60 1.59 1.48 1.67 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 9.94 9.78 9.21 10.34 Hong Kong Dollar 12.42 12.38 11.51 12.94 Korean Won 1,709 1,734 1,646 1,771 The average exchange rate achieved by the Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward foreign exchange contracts executed on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 164.2: 1 in the year to 31 March 2015 2014: Yen 137.0: 1.
13 1300 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued s Adjusted profit before taxation Derivative instruments continued In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is deferred include a presentation of Adjusted Profit before Taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised immediately and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order in the Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are recycled in the Income Statement in the to provide a consistent and comparable view of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature and any fair value movements on options over equity no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity interests held for non-speculative purposes.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Income impacts are added back deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.
Statement within net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading.
If a derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, the subsequent change to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest 3.
Segmental analysis depending upon the nature of the instrument.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the on the reports used by the Board.
retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income and will be reclassified to the Income Statement when the foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
r Foreign currency translation Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets Functional and presentation currency and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from the Groups partners in Japan and global licensees Transactions in foreign currencies of eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise, an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating except where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which segment that is reviewed by the Board.
case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Retail Wholesale Licensing Total Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Translation of the results of overseas businesses 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average m m m m m m Retail 1,807.4 1,622.6 1,807.4 1,622.6 exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets Wholesale 648.1 628.0 648.1 628.0 and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the year end exchange rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the Licensing 70.1 81.6 70.1 81.6 opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency Total segment revenue 2,455.5 2,250.6 70.1 81.6 2,525.6 2,332.2 translation reserve.
1 Inter-segment revenue 2.4 2.4 2.4 2.4 Revenue from external customers 2,455.5 2,250.6 67.7 79.2 2,523.2 2,329.8 Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Depreciation and amortisation 138.7 138.6 138.7 138.6 Net impairment charges 4.1 12.3 4.1 12.3 The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Other non-cash expenses: Share based payments 17.8 21.6 3.2 3.8 21.0 25.4 Average rate Closing rate Year to Year to As at As at Adjusted operating profit 399.2 393.5 56.0 66.8 455.2 460.3 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2 Adjusting items 11.2 16.6 2015 2014 2015 2014 Finance income 4.4 3.9 Euro 1.28 1.19 1.38 1.21 Finance expense 3.8 3.2 US Dollar 1.60 1.59 1.48 1.67 Profit before taxation 444.6 444.4 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 9.94 9.78 9.21 10.34 Hong Kong Dollar 12.42 12.38 11.51 12.94 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
Korean Won 1,709 1,734 1,646 1,771 2 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
The average exchange rate achieved by the Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward foreign exchange contracts executed on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 164.2: 1 in the year to 31 March 2015 2014: Yen 137.0: 1.
13 1311 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
Segmental analysis continued Segmental asset analysis Retail Wholesale Licensing Total Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets 157.1 160.9 157.1 160.9 Total segment assets 1,300.6 1,200.4 2.6 5.8 1,303.2 1,206.2 Goodwill 88.8 80.2 Cash and cash equivalents 617.4 545.5 Taxation 156.3 125.0 Assets relating to discontinued Spanish operations 7.5 8.6 Total assets per Balance Sheet 2,173.2 1,965.5 Additional revenue analysis Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Revenue by product division m m Accessories 892.5 816.1 Womens 743.0 684.0 Mens 557.5 520.8 Childrens Other 77.7 78.4 Beauty 184.8 151.3 Retail Wholesale 2,455.5 2,250.6 Licensing 67.7 79.2 Total 2,523.2 2,329.8 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Revenue by destination m m Asia Pacific 938.1 870.3 1 EMEIA 869.0 811.5 Americas 648.4 568.8 Retail Wholesale 2,455.5 2,250.6 Licensing 67.7 79.2 Total 2,523.2 2,329.8 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
Entity-wide disclosures Revenue derived from external customers in the UK totalled 233.3m for the year to 31 March 2015 2014: 213.2m.
Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,289.9m for the year to 31 March 2015 2014: 2,116.6m.
This amount includes 551.6m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2014: 493.8m and 346.2m of external revenues derived from customers in China 2014: 318.2m.
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 197.7m 2014: 213.7m.
The remaining 455.4m of non-current assets are located in other countries 2014: 394.0m, with 174.9m located in the USA 2014: 136.9m and 87.8m located in China 2014: 84.3m.
13 1322 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.
Net operating expenses Year to Year to Segmental asset analysis 31 March 31 March Retail Wholesale Licensing Total 2014 2015 Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Note m m 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Selling and distribution costs 762.9 673.6 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m m m Administrative expenses 547.4 524.6 Additions to non-current assets 157.1 160.9 157.1 160.9 Adjusting items Total segment assets 1,300.6 1,200.4 2.6 5.8 1,303.2 1,206.2 Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 14.9 14.9 Goodwill 88.8 80.2 Total 1,325.2 1,213.1 Cash and cash equivalents 617.4 545.5 Taxation 156.3 125.0 5.
Profit before taxation Assets relating to discontinued Spanish operations 7.5 8.6 Year to Year to Total assets per Balance Sheet 2,173.2 1,965.5 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Note m m Additional revenue analysis Adjusted profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Year to Year to Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 31 March 31 March Within cost of sales 1.0 0.8 2015 2014 Revenue by product division m m Within selling and distribution costs 88.8 88.7 Accessories 892.5 816.1 Within administrative expenses 14.2 16.1 Womens 743.0 684.0 Amortisation of intangible assets Mens 557.5 520.8 Within selling and distribution costs 1.7 2.2 Childrens Other 77.7 78.4 Within administrative expenses 18.0 15.9 Beauty 184.8 151.3 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2.1 1.3 Net impairment charge relating to retail assets 4.1 12.3 Retail Wholesale 2,455.5 2,250.6 Employee costs 468.1 441.3 Licensing 67.7 79.2 Operating lease rentals Total 2,523.2 2,329.8 Minimum lease payments 190.9 156.5 Contingent rents 87.5 83.2 Year to Year to Net exchange gain loss on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 1.4 11.5 31 March 31 March Net exchange gain on derivatives held for trading for the year 1.4 4.2 2015 2014 Revenue by destination m Trade receivables net impairment charge reversal 0.1 1.5 m Asia Pacific 938.1 870.3 1 EMEIA 869.0 811.5 Adjusting items Americas 648.4 568.8 Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 14.9 14.9 Retail Wholesale 2,455.5 2,250.6 Put option liability finance income charges 6 3.7 1.7 Licensing 67.7 79.2 Total 2,523.2 2,329.8 6.
Adjusting items Amortisation of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and Entity-wide disclosures wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
Revenue derived from external customers in the UK totalled 233.3m for the year to 31 March 2015 2014: 213.2m.
This asset is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The amortisation is presented as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised on termination of the licence relationship in the Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,289.9m for the year to 31 March 2015 2014: 2,116.6m.
The amortisation expense recognised for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 14.9m 2014: 14.9m This amount includes 551.6m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2014: 493.8m and 346.2m of refer to note 12.
A related tax credit of 3.1m 2014: 1.9m has also been recognised in the current period.
external revenues derived from customers in China 2014: 318.2m.
13 1333 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Adjusting items continued Put option liability finance income charge The financing income of 3.7m for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: charge of 1.7m relates to fair value movements and the unwinding of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd.
Refer to note 19 for further details of the carrying value of the put option liability.
No tax has been recognised on this item, as it is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes.
Auditor remuneration Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below.
All work performed by the external auditors is controlled by an authorisation policy agreed by the Audit Committee.
The overriding principle precludes the auditors from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence.
Non-audit services are provided by the auditors where they are best placed to provide the service due to their previous experience or market leadership in a particular area.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Audit services in respect of the financial statements of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.4 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of subsidiary companies 1.5 1.4 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Services relating to taxation Compliance services 0.1 0.1 Advisory services 0.3 0.3 Other non-audit related services 0.2 0.2 Total 2.6 2.5 8. Financing Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Note m m Bank interest income 3.7 2.9 Other finance income 0.7 1.0 Finance income 4.4 3.9 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.8 1.6 Bank charges 1.8 1.4 Other finance expense 0.2 0.2 Finance expense 3.8 3.2 Other financing income charges put option liability 6 3.7 1.7 Net finance income charge 4.3 1.0 13 1344 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Taxation Put option liability finance income charge Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: The financing income of 3.7m for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: charge of 1.7m relates to fair value movements Year to Year to and the unwinding of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading 31 March 31 March Co. Ltd.
No tax has been recognised on 2015 2014 this item, as it is not considered to be deductible for tax purposes.
m m Current tax UK corporation tax 7.
Auditor remuneration Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2015 at 21% 2014: 23% 58.8 69.1 Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below.
All work performed by the Double taxation relief 0.7 0.8 external auditors is controlled by an authorisation policy agreed by the Audit Committee.
The overriding principle precludes Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.4 3.8 the auditors from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence.
Non-audit services are provided 55.7 64.5 by the auditors where they are best placed to provide the service due to their previous experience or market leadership in a Foreign tax particular area.
Current tax on income for the year 60.9 50.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.9 6.2 Year to Year to Total current tax 123.5 121.6 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax UK deferred tax Audit services in respect of the financial statements of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.4 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.1 2.3 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of subsidiary companies 1.5 1.4 Impact of changes to tax rates 4.1 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.9 0.2 Services relating to taxation Compliance services 0.1 0.1 3.0 6.6 Advisory services 0.3 0.3 Foreign deferred tax Other non-audit related services 0.2 0.2 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 21.3 16.9 Total 2.6 2.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 0.8 Total deferred tax 20.0 9.5 Total tax charge on profit 103.5 112.1 8. Financing Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: 2015 2014 Note m m Year to Year to Bank interest income 3.7 2.9 31 March 31 March Other finance income 0.7 1.0 2015 2014 Finance income 4.4 3.9 m m Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.8 1.6 Current tax Bank charges 1.8 1.4 Recognised in other comprehensive income Other finance expense 0.2 0.2 Current tax charge credit on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 4.4 4.6 Finance expense 3.8 3.2 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 4.4 4.6 Other financing income charges put option liability 6 3.7 1.7 Recognised in equity Net finance income charge 4.3 1.0 Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 5.6 9.6 Total current tax recognised directly in equity 5.6 9.6 Deferred tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Deferred tax credit charge on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 1.3 0.9 Deferred tax credit on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.2 2.2 Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 1.5 1.3 Recognised in equity Deferred tax charge on share options retained earnings 0.4 5.8 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.4 5.8 13 1355 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation continued The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Profit before taxation 444.6 444.4 Tax at 21% 2014: 23% on profit before taxation 93.4 102.2 Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 1.8 2.9 Permanent differences 5.6 3.4 Current year tax losses not recognised 2.4 1.9 Prior year tax losses recognised in the year 3.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.7 3.4 Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 4.1 Total taxation charge 103.5 112.1 Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Adjusted profit before taxation 106.6 114.0 Adjusting items 3.1 1.9 Total taxation charge 103.5 112.1 10.
Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m 1 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 344.4 337.2 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 8.1 14.7 Attributable profit for the year 336.3 322.5 1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive effect when exercised.
Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share incentive schemes.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 440.0 437.9 Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 7.8 9.4 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 447.8 447.3 13 1366 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company Year to Year to The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Year to Year to m m 31 March 31 March Prior year final dividend paid 23.20p per share 2014: 21.00p 102.1 92.1 2015 2014 Interim dividend paid 9.70p per share 2014: 8.80p 42.8 38.6 m m Total 144.9 130.7 Profit before taxation 444.6 444.4 Tax at 21% 2014: 23% on profit before taxation 93.4 102.2 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2015 of 25.50p 2014: 23.20p per share, amounting to 112.4m, has been Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 1.8 2.9 proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final Permanent differences 5.6 3.4 dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on Current year tax losses not recognised 2.4 1.9 31 July 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 July 2015.
Prior year tax losses recognised in the year 3.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.7 3.4 12.
Intangible assets Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 4.1 Trade marks, Total taxation charge 103.5 112.1 Intangible assets licences and Computer in the course of other intangible software construction Goodwill assets Total Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: Cost m m m m m As at 31 March 2013 86.3 99.0 77.9 5.8 269.0 Year to Year to Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.8 0.4 1.6 8.8 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Additions 0.3 17.3 8.4 26.0 m m Reclassifications from assets in the course Adjusted profit before taxation 106.6 114.0 of construction 4.9 4.9 Adjusting items 3.1 1.9 Business combinations 0.7 0.7 Total taxation charge 103.5 112.1 As at 31 March 2014 80.2 98.9 98.5 9.3 286.9 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8.6 1.1 0.8 8.3 10.
Earnings per share Additions 1.8 16.6 8.9 27.3 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year Disposals 12.6 0.1 0.8 13.5 divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Reclassifications from assets in the course based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
of construction 5.2 5.2 As at 31 March 2015 88.8 87.0 121.0 12.2 309.0 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Accumulated amortisation and impairment 2015 2014 m m As at 31 March 2013 14.4 44.4 58.8 1 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 344.4 337.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 1.0 1.3 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 8.1 14.7 Charge for the year 17.2 15.8 33.0 Attributable profit for the year 336.3 322.5 Net impairment charge on assets note 13 1.0 1.0 As at 31 March 2014 32.3 59.2 91.5 1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 1.1 0.4 The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary Charge for the year 16.4 18.2 34.6 shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
Net impairment charge on assets note 13 0.2 0.2 Disposals 11.1 0.1 11.2 Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, As at 31 March 2015 37.1 78.4 115.5 account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive Net book value effect when exercised.
Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share As at 31 March 2015 88.8 49.9 42.6 12.2 193.5 incentive schemes.
As at 31 March 2014 80.2 66.6 39.3 9.3 195.4 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 2015 2014 During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the Millions Millions present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 440.0 437.9 retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 7.8 9.4 Interparfums SA.
This asset is presented within the intangible asset category trade mark, licences and other intangible assets, Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 447.8 447.3 and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The carrying value of the Beauty intangible at 31 March 2015 is 41.1m 2014: 56.0m.
No impairment has been recorded in the current period.
Management has considered the impact of a decrease in the future revenue estimates used in the latest value-in-use calculation.
Based on this sensitivity, a decrease of 12% in future revenue projections, with no change in operating profit margin, would imply an impairment of 10m as at 31 March 2015.
13 1377 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Intangible assets continued Impairment testing of goodwill The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m 1 China 45.8 40.7 Korea 25.1 23.3 Other 17.9 16.2 Total 88.8 80.2 1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations for each cash generating unit are based on projected three year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was recognised at a value equal to its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed up, to include the goodwill attributable to the noncontrolling interest, for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key assumptions contained in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the discount rates applied.
The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the three years ending 31 March 2018.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2016 and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018.
The plans are based on the performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 31 March 2018 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2018.
For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2016.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 16.8% and 14.3% respectively 2014: 17.2%: 14.6%.
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value.
13 1388 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Assets in the Impairment testing of goodwill Freehold land Leasehold fittings and course of The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to cash generating units: 1 and buildings improvements equipment construction Total Cost m m m m m As at As at As at 31 March 2013 104.2 303.1 366.3 23.2 796.8 31 March 31 March Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.6 25.4 20.7 1.7 54.4 2015 2014 Additions 1.0 55.4 60.4 18.1 134.9 m m Disposals 2.3 13.7 12.0 0.1 28.1 1 China 45.8 40.7 Reclassification from assets in the course Korea 25.1 23.3 of construction 10.2 10.3 20.5 Other 17.9 16.2 Business combination 0.1 0.1 Total 88.8 80.2 As at 31 March 2014 96.3 329.6 404.4 19.0 849.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 3.3 23.2 3.7 1.0 31.2 1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Additions 7.0 48.7 48.1 26.0 129.8 Disposals 18.3 20.7 1.0 40.0 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The Reclassification from assets in the course recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations of construction 1.1 8.1 8.0 17.2 for each cash generating unit are based on projected three year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted 2 Reclassification 29.8 29.8 terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital As at 31 March 2015 137.5 361.5 443.5 27.8 970.3 adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was recognised at a value equal to its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the Accumulated depreciation and impairment acquisition date, the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed up, to include the goodwill attributable to the nonAs at 31 March 2013 39.2 141.2 207.3 387.7 controlling interest, for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.0 12.8 12.5 27.3 assumptions contained in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed Charge for the year 1.5 36.0 68.1 105.6 life of the business and the discount rates applied.
Disposals 2.0 12.5 11.9 26.4 Net impairment charge on assets 5.7 5.6 11.3 As at 31 March 2014 36.7 157.6 256.6 450.9 The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the three years ending Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 11.5 2.4 13.4 31 March 2018.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2016 Charge for the year 2.8 37.5 63.7 104.0 and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2018.
The plans are based on the Disposals 18.0 20.4 38.4 performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business Net impairment charge on assets 1.9 2.0 3.9 plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 2 Reclassification 9.2 9.2 31 March 2018 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2018.
As at 31 March 2015 48.2 181.3 304.3 533.8 For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use Net book value calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2016.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant As at 31 March 2015 89.3 180.2 139.2 27.8 436.5 headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management As at 31 March 2014 59.6 172.0 147.8 19.0 398.4 considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of 2.3m 2014: 2.8m.
2 During the year ended 31 March 2015, 20.6m of assets were reclassified from leasehold improvements to freehold land and buildings as this was more representative The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 16.8% and 14.3% respectively 2014: 17.2%: 14.6%.
of the nature of the assets.
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash During the year to 31 March 2015, a net impairment charge of 4.1m 2014: 12.3m was identified as part of the annual generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value.
impairment review of the retail store assets, 3.9m 2014: 11.3m charged against property, plant and equipment and 0.2m 2014: 1.0m charged against intangible assets.
The impairment charge relates to 22 retail cash generating units 2014: 29 retail cash generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 6.5m 2014: 10.0m.
Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the assets to the carrying values at 31 March 2015.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs of each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used in these calculations were between 12.1% and 18.3% 2014: between 12.4% and 18.3%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
13 1399 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown in the table below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Deferred tax assets 145.0 116.0 Deferred tax liabilities 0.9 1.0 Net amount 144.1 115.0 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m As at 1 April 115.0 116.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8.0 6.8 Credited to the Income Statement 20.0 9.5 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.5 1.3 Charged to equity 0.4 5.8 As at 31 March 144.1 115.0 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the off-setting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities Unrealised inventory profit and other Capital inventory Derivative Unused tax allowances provisions instruments losses Other Total m m m m m m As at 31 March 2013 25.4 3.5 1.5 16.6 6.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.0 0.3 1.3 0.4 Credited charged to the Income Statement 8.3 0.4 0.2 8.1 0.8 As at 31 March 2014 15.1 3.6 1.5 0.2 7.2 5.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Credited charged to the Income Statement 13.0 2.6 0.2 9.1 1.1 As at 31 March 2015 2.2 1.1 1.5 1.6 4.2 Deferred tax assets Unrealised inventory profit and other Unused Capital inventory Share Derivative tax 1 Other allowances provisions schemes instruments losses Total m m m m m m m As at 31 March 2013 25.9 35.4 31.5 1.5 2.7 29.6 123.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 3.9 0.1 2.8 7.2 Charged credited to the Income Statement 5.3 1.4 0.2 0.1 15.5 8.7 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.3 1.3 Charged to equity 5.8 5.8 As at 31 March 2014 20.2 30.1 25.5 0.2 2.7 42.3 120.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 3.6 0.2 0.3 5.8 7.7 Charged credited to the Income Statement 11.1 6.6 3.5 3.4 23.5 18.9 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 Charged to equity 0.4 0.4 As at 31 March 2015 7.5 40.3 21.8 1.3 5.8 71.6 148.3 1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on provisions, deferred income and unrealised exchange differences deferred in equity.
14 1400 Notes to the Financial Statements 14.
Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 53.2m 2014: 20.1m in respect in the table below: of losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 190.6m 2014: 62.1m that can be set off against future taxable income.
There is a time limit for the recovery of 16.8m of these potential assets 2014: 14.9m which ranges from four to As at As at nine years 2014: five to nine years.
During the year, the restructuring and simplification of our Spanish entities relating to 31 March 31 March the previously discontinued Spanish wholesale business crystallised tax losses which are available to be offset against future 2015 2014 m m taxable profits of the continuing retail business in Spain.
These amounts are included in the total above.
Deferred tax assets 145.0 116.0 Deferred tax liabilities 0.9 1.0 Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of nil 2014: 0.6m relating to unremitted overseas Net amount 144.1 115.0 earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences in respect of Year to Year to 31 March 31 March unremitted earnings is 250m 2014: 150m.
2015 2014 The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m 15.
Trade and other receivables As at 1 April 115.0 116.8 As at As at Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 8.0 6.8 31 March 31 March Credited to the Income Statement 20.0 9.5 2015 2014 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.5 1.3 m m Charged to equity 0.4 5.8 Non-current As at 31 March 144.1 115.0 Deposits and other financial receivables 39.6 31.0 Other non-financial receivables 2.7 Prepayments 18.2 11.3 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the off-setting of balances Total non-current trade and other receivables 60.5 42.3 within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Current Trade receivables 193.6 171.2 Deferred tax liabilities Provision for doubtful debts 4.6 5.3 Unrealised Net trade receivables 189.0 165.9 inventory profit and Other financial receivables 16.3 14.1 other Other non-financial receivables 23.9 20.3 Capital inventory Derivative Unused tax Prepayments 28.1 27.5 allowances provisions instruments losses Other Total Accrued income 3.0 3.6 m m m m m m Total current trade and other receivables 260.3 231.4 As at 31 March 2013 25.4 3.5 1.5 16.6 6.8 Total trade and other receivables 320.8 273.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.0 0.3 1.3 0.4 Credited charged to the Income Statement 8.3 0.4 0.2 8.1 0.8 As at 31 March 2014 15.1 3.6 1.5 0.2 7.2 5.6 Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 72.9m 2014: 59.1m.
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Credited charged to the Income Statement 13.0 2.6 0.2 9.1 1.1 The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or As at 31 March 2015 2.2 1.1 1.5 1.6 4.2 where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
As at 31 March 2015, trade receivables of 13.6m 2014: 14.1m were impaired.
The amount of the provision against these receivables was 4.6m as at 31 March 2015 2014: 5.3m.
It was assessed that a Deferred tax assets portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: Unrealised inventory As at As at profit and 31 March 31 March other Unused 2015 2014 Capital inventory Share Derivative tax 1 m m Other allowances provisions schemes instruments losses Total Current 0.1 m m m m m m m Less than one month overdue 8.8 9.7 As at 31 March 2013 25.9 35.4 31.5 1.5 2.7 29.6 123.6 One to three months overdue 1.5 0.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 3.9 0.1 2.8 7.2 Over three months overdue 3.2 3.7 Charged credited to the Income Statement 5.3 1.4 0.2 0.1 15.5 8.7 13.6 14.1 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.3 1.3 Charged to equity 5.8 5.8 As at 31 March 2014 20.2 30.1 25.5 0.2 2.7 42.3 120.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 3.6 0.2 0.3 5.8 7.7 Charged credited to the Income Statement 11.1 6.6 3.5 3.4 23.5 18.9 Credited to other comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 Charged to equity 0.4 0.4 As at 31 March 2015 7.5 40.3 21.8 1.3 5.8 71.6 148.3 1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on provisions, deferred income and unrealised exchange differences deferred in equity.
14 1411 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 March 2015, trade receivables of 7.5m 2014: 12.8m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Less than one month overdue 4.5 7.6 One to three months overdue 2.3 4.5 Over three months overdue 0.7 0.7 7.5 12.8 Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m As at 1 April 5.3 7.3 Increase decrease in provision for doubtful debts 0.1 1.5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.8 0.5 As at 31 March 4.6 5.3 As at 31 March 2015 there were nil impaired receivables within other receivables 2014: nil.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer geographical location are: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Asia Pacific 105.0 88.2 EMEIA 78.2 70.8 Americas 64.7 55.6 247.9 214.6 16.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Raw materials 29.2 36.3 Work in progress 2.2 2.7 Finished goods 405.2 380.8 Total inventories 436.6 419.8 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 730.1m 2014: 646.2m.
The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2015 was a cost of 31.3m 2014: 13.3m.
The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year is 19.7m 2014: 11.0m.
14 1422 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Trade and other receivables continued 17.
Derivative financial instruments As at 31 March 2015, trade receivables of 7.5m 2014: 12.8m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue Cash flow hedges receivables is as follows: The Group Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign As at As at exchange contracts.
These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges.
The Groups foreign currency denominated 31 March 31 March transactions arise principally from royalty income, sales and purchases of inventory.
2015 2014 m m Less than one month overdue 4.5 7.6 Master netting arrangements One to three months overdue 2.3 4.5 The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and Over three months overdue 0.7 0.7 Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each 7.5 12.8 counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the Year to Year to Groups right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet 31 March 31 March would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject 2015 2014 m m to these ISDA agreements.
As at 1 April 5.3 7.3 Increase decrease in provision for doubtful debts 0.1 1.5 Derivative financial assets Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.8 0.5 As at As at As at 31 March 4.6 5.3 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m As at 31 March 2015 there were nil impaired receivables within other receivables 2014: nil.
Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 6.6 4.6 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 0.5 The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer Equity swap contracts held for trading 2.8 0.5 geographical location are: Total position 9.9 5.1 Comprising: Year to Year to Total non-current position 1.5 0.5 31 March 31 March Total current position 8.4 4.6 2015 2014 m m Asia Pacific 105.0 88.2 Derivative financial liabilities EMEIA 78.2 70.8 As at As at 31 March 31 March Americas 64.7 55.6 2015 2014 247.9 214.6 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 10.7 1.2 1 16.
Inventories Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 1.8 As at As at Equity swap contracts held for trading 1.3 31 March 31 March Total position 12.5 2.5 2015 2014 Comprising: m m Total non-current position 0.9 Raw materials 29.2 36.3 Total current position 12.5 1.6 Work in progress 2.2 2.7 Finished goods 405.2 380.8 Total inventories 436.6 419.8 Net derivative financial instruments As at As at 31 March 31 March The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 730.1m 2014: 646.2m.
2015 2014 m m The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2015 was a cost of 31.3m Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 218.4 218.4 2014: 13.3m.
1 Notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 197.4 Notional principal amounts of the outstanding equity swap contracts 13.8 17.9 The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year is 19.7m 2014: 11.0m.
1 Forward foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading are used for cash management purposes.
At 31 March 2015 all such contracts had maturities of no greater than three months from the balance sheet date.
14 1433 Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior to the contractual maturity.
The foreign currency cash flows shown are based on spot rates at the balance sheet date.
Contractual maturities Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 1 to 2 Carrying amount cash flows months months years m m m m m As at 31 March 2015 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 216.0 167.8 48.2 Inflow 211.7 165.2 46.5 4.1 4.3 2.6 1.7 As at 31 March 2014 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 214.1 99.2 106.6 8.3 Inflow 217.3 101.5 107.5 8.3 3.4 3.2 2.3 0.9 The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Cash at bank and in hand 252.3 275.4 Short-term deposits 365.1 270.1 Total 617.4 545.5 19.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 March 31 March 1 2014 2015 m m Non-current Put option liability over non-controlling interest 54.4 51.3 Other payables 3.7 4.4 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 59.0 51.7 Total non-current trade and other payables 117.1 107.4 Current Trade payables 159.8 174.3 Other taxes and social security costs 61.0 66.6 Other payables 4.5 5.7 Accruals 164.0 140.1 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 16.7 13.1 Total current trade and other payables 406.0 399.8 Total trade and other payables 523.1 507.2 1 As at 31 March 2014, 18.1m was reclassified from current deferred income and non-financial accruals to other taxes and social security costs, as this was more reflective of the nature of these liabilities.
Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 136.7m 2014: 131.4m.
14 1444 Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Trade and other payables continued Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging Put option liability over non-controlling interest The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group to derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior company, retains a 15% economic interest in the Groups business in China.
Put and call options exist over this interest stake to the contractual maturity.
which are exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the case of the put option.
The net present value of the put option liability has been recognised as a non-current financial liability under IAS 39.
Contractual maturities The present value of any payment under the call option would be different should Burberry decide to exercise the call option.
Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 1 to 2 Carrying amount cash flows months months years The value of the put option liability is 54.4m at 31 March 2015 2014: 51.3m.
The movement in the liability for the period m m m m m includes a decrease of 3.7m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, offset by the impact of As at 31 March 2015 translation of the put liability to the Groups presentational currency.
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 216.0 167.8 48.2 Inflow 211.7 165.2 46.5 The key inputs applied in arriving at the value of the put option liability are the future performance of the Groups business in 4.1 4.3 2.6 1.7 China: the average historical Burberry Group plc multiple: and the risk adjusted discount rate for China, taking into account the As at 31 March 2014 risk-free rate in China.
The future performance of the business is estimated by using managements business plans together Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: with long-term observable growth forecasts.
Outflow 214.1 99.2 106.6 8.3 Inflow 217.3 101.5 107.5 8.3 The carrying value of the put option liability is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these key inputs, and is subject 3.4 3.2 2.3 0.9 to change in the event that there is a change in any of those assumptions.
The valuation is updated at every reporting period or more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25.
A 10% increase decrease in the future performance of the Groups business in China at the put option exercise date would 18.
Cash and cash equivalents result in a 5.4m increase decrease in the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2015 2014: 5.1m, and a As at As at corresponding 5.4m loss gain in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: 5.1m.
31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m A 1% increase decrease in the risk adjusted discount rate for China would result in a 2.9m decrease 3.0m increase in Cash at bank and in hand 252.3 275.4 the carrying value of the put option liability at 31 March 2015 2014: 3.0m decrease 3.1m increase, and a corresponding Short-term deposits 365.1 270.1 2.9m gain 3.0m loss in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2015 2014: 3.0m gain 3.1m loss.
Total 617.4 545.5 Ultimately, the put option liability is subject to a contractual cap of 200m.
The undiscounted value of the put option liability 19.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 1 2014 2015 m m Non-current Put option liability over non-controlling interest 54.4 51.3 Other payables 3.7 4.4 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 59.0 51.7 Total non-current trade and other payables 117.1 107.4 Current Trade payables 159.8 174.3 Other taxes and social security costs 61.0 66.6 Other payables 4.5 5.7 Accruals 164.0 140.1 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 16.7 13.1 Total current trade and other payables 406.0 399.8 Total trade and other payables 523.1 507.2 1 As at 31 March 2014, 18.1m was reclassified from current deferred income and non-financial accruals to other taxes and social security costs, as this was more reflective of the nature of these liabilities.
14 1455 Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Property Restructuring Other obligations costs costs Total m m m m Balance as at 31 March 2013 25.8 1.9 5.0 32.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 1.6 Created during the year 6.3 0.2 6.5 Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 Utilised during the year 3.4 0.4 0.9 4.7 Released during the year 4.4 2.1 6.5 Balance as at 31 March 2014 22.9 1.5 2.2 26.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.5 Created during the year 12.3 0.6 12.9 Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 Utilised during the year 5.4 0.6 0.2 6.2 Released during the year 1.3 0.2 1.5 Balance as at 31 March 2015 29.4 0.8 2.3 32.5 As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Analysis of total provisions: Non-current 22.2 15.9 Current 10.3 10.7 Total 32.5 26.6 The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected to be utilised within 21 years 2014: 22 years.
Bank overdrafts and borrowings Included within bank overdrafts is 60.9m 2014: 140.9m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
The Group has a number of uncommitted overdraft and borrowing facilities agreed with third-party banks.
At 31 March 2015, the Group held bank overdrafts of 4.3m 2014: 2.1m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of third-party banks.
This replaced the previous facility which would have matured on 30 June 2016.
At 31 March 2015, there were nil outstanding drawings 2014: nil.
The facility matures in November 2019.
The agreement contains two options which allow the Group to extend for an additional one year which are exercisable in 2015 and 2016, at the consent of the syndicate.
The fair value of borrowings and overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
14 1466 Notes to the Financial Statements 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges 22.
Share capital and reserves Property Restructuring Other obligations costs costs Total Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m m m m m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2014: 0.05p each Balance as at 31 March 2013 25.8 1.9 5.0 32.7 As at 31 March 2013 442,160,331 0.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.6 1.6 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,481,959 Created during the year 6.3 0.2 6.5 As at 31 March 2014 443,642,290 0.2 Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 1,101,777 Utilised during the year 3.4 0.4 0.9 4.7 As at 31 March 2015 444,744,067 0.2 Released during the year 4.4 2.1 6.5 Balance as at 31 March 2014 22.9 1.5 2.2 26.6 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.1 0.1 0.5 of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year to 31 March 2015, no ordinary shares were repurchased by the Company Created during the year 12.3 0.6 12.9 Discount unwind 0.2 0.2 under this authority 2014: nil.
Utilised during the year 5.4 0.6 0.2 6.2 Released during the year 1.3 0.2 1.5 The cost of own shares held by the Group has been offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the Balance as at 31 March 2015 29.4 0.8 2.3 32.5 profits available for distribution by the Company.
As at 31 March 2015 the amounts offset against this reserve are 57.0m 2014: 69.7m.
As at 31 March 2015, the ESOP trusts held 4.1m shares 2014: 5.2m in the Company, with a market value As at As at of 71.9m 2014: 72.5m.
In the year to 31 March 2015 the Burberry Group plc ESOP trust has waived its entitlement to 31 March 31 March dividends of 1.2m 2014: 1.3m.
2015 2014 m m During the year profits of 5.3m 2014: 3.0m have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of Analysis of total provisions: Non-current 22.2 15.9 subsidiaries.
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the Current 10.3 10.7 purchase of own shares.
Total 32.5 26.6 Other Reserves Capital Hedging Foreign currency The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected to be reserve reserve translation reserve Total m m m m utilised within 21 years 2014: 22 years.
Bank overdrafts and borrowings Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 4.2 4.2 Included within bank overdrafts is 60.9m 2014: 140.9m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 9.2 9.2 Foreign currency translation differences 50.9 50.9 The Group has a number of uncommitted overdraft and borrowing facilities agreed with third-party banks.
At 31 March 2015, Tax on other comprehensive income 1.3 4.6 5.9 the Group held bank overdrafts of 4.3m 2014: 2.1m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
Total comprehensive expense for the year 3.7 46.3 50.0 Transfer between reserves 3.0 3.0 On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of third-party Balance as at 31 March 2014 40.0 5.6 104.7 150.3 banks.
At 31 March 2015, there were nil Other comprehensive income: outstanding drawings 2014: nil.
The agreement contains two options which allow Cash flow hedges losses deferred in equity 6.1 6.1 the Group to extend for an additional one year which are exercisable in 2015 and 2016, at the consent of the syndicate.
Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 1.3 1.3 Foreign currency translation differences 46.5 46.5 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.5 4.4 2.9 The fair value of borrowings and overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of Total comprehensive expense income for the year 5.9 42.1 36.2 these instruments.
Transfer between reserves 5.3 0.5 5.8 Balance as at 31 March 2015 45.3 0.3 147.3 192.3 14 1477 Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Financial commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has commitments relating to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 205.4 166.0 Between two and five years 513.1 407.2 After five years 264.4 197.2 Total 982.9 770.4 The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
Under certain revenue based leases, there are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above.
As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment at the prior year end.
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases on land and buildings is as follows: Leases Subleases As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 0.7 0.7 2.1 0.5 Between two and five years 2.6 3.0 5.6 1.8 After five years 0.7 Total 3.3 4.4 7.7 2.3 24.
Capital commitments As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: Property, plant and equipment 36.3 26.1 Intangible assets 1.0 2.2 Total 37.3 28.3 Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
14 1488 Notes to the Financial Statements 23.
Financial risk management The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings including arrangements.
The Group has commitments relating overdrafts, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including foreign exchange risk, share price risk As at As at and interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m Risk management is carried out by Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to reduce financial risk and m Amounts falling due: to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash assets safely and profitably.
Group Within one year 205.4 166.0 Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
The policies Between two and five years 513.1 407.2 of the Group treasury department are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group uses derivative instruments After five years 264.4 197.2 to hedge certain risk exposures.
Total 982.9 770.4 Market risk The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been Foreign exchange risk based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency at the prior year end.
fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts see note 17.
The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases on land and buildings is as follows: The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify as highly probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
Leases Subleases As at As at As at As at The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2015 2014 reporting purposes.
m m m m Amounts falling due: At 31 March 2015, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening weakening Within one year 0.7 0.7 2.1 0.5 by 20% 2014: 20% against other currencies with all other variables held constant.
The effect on translating foreign currency Between two and five years 2.6 3.0 5.6 1.8 denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value After five years 0.7 through profit or loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 12.6m 2014: decrease increase Total 3.3 4.4 7.7 2.3 7.2m.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges and Sterling denominated loans held as a net investment in overseas subsidiaries would have been to decrease increase equity by 13.0m 24.
Capital commitments 2014: decrease increase 16.1m on a post-tax basis.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other m m than the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: manage currency exposure.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received Property, plant and equipment 36.3 26.1 or paid in cash.
Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign exchange differences on Intangible assets 1.0 2.2 retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses with the exception of the put liability over Total 37.3 28.3 the non-controlling interest which are recognised in Other financing income and charges.
Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major As at 31 March 2015 As at 31 March 2014 capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary and intangible assets.
14 1499 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Share price risk The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share incentive schemes.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability on an ongoing basis.
An increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted in an increase decrease in profit after tax of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and external borrowings including overdrafts.
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2015 are 65.2m 2014: 143.0m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances of 60.9m 2014: 140.9m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2015 the remaining borrowings were 4.3m 2014: 2.1m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
The floating rate financial assets comprise short-term deposits of 365.2m 2014: 270.1m and interest bearing current accounts of 72.5m 2014: 43.4m as at 31 March 2015.
At 31 March 2015, if interest rates on floating rate financial assets had been 100 basis points higher lower 2014: 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2.4m 2014: 1.3m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 8% of the total balance due 2014: 7%.
The Group has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or via major credit cards.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 15.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
As part of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn 16.0m 15 year interest-free loan was provided to the landlord.
The Group holds a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2015 the discounted fair value of the loan is 9.8m 2014: 8.6m.
Other than this arrangement, the Group does not hold any other collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of A other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 40.8m was held with institutions with a rating below A at 31 March 2015, of which 36.6m was held in a UK government majority owned institution.
These amounts are monitored on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
The Group has deposited CHF 0.3m 2014: CHF 0.3m, INR 0.2m 2014: INR 0.2m and AED 0.3m 2014: AED 0.3m which is held as collateral at a number of European banks.
15 1500 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued Market risk continued Liquidity risk Share price risk The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share and close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain incentive schemes.
flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
For further details of this, see note 21.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less.
The carrying the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
not seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
An increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted in an The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding increase decrease in profit after tax of 0.1m 2014: 0.1m.
derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: As at As at Interest rate risk 31 March 31 March The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and external 2015 2014 borrowings including overdrafts.
m m In more than one year, but not more than two years 5.9 5.9 In more than two years, but not more than three years 2.3 3.0 The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2015 are 65.2m 2014: 143.0m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances In more than three years, but not more than four years 0.8 1.1 of 60.9m 2014: 140.9m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2015 In more than four years, but not more than five years 0.8 0.8 the remaining borrowings were 4.3m 2014: 2.1m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
In more than five years 109.5 117.5 Total financial liabilities 119.3 128.3 The floating rate financial assets comprise short-term deposits of 365.2m 2014: 270.1m and interest bearing current accounts of 72.5m 2014: 43.4m as at 31 March 2015.
At 31 March 2015, if interest rates on floating rate financial assets Other non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over had been 100 basis points higher lower 2014: 100 basis points, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for non-controlling interests.
the year would have been 2.4m 2014: 1.3m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
Capital risk Credit risk The Group manages its capital defined as net cash plus equity excluding non-controlling interest to ensure that entities in the The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number Group are able to operate as going concerns and optimise returns to shareholders.
At 31 March 2015, the Group had net cash of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 8% of the total balance due 2014: 7%.
The Group of 552.2m 2014: 402.5m and total equity excluding non-controlling interest of 1,400.9m 2014: 1,165.4m.
The Group has has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail access to a facility of 300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2015.
For further details refer to note 21. customers are made in cash or via major credit cards.
Cash is used to fund the continued investment in the Group and growth of the global brand.
It is also used to make routine An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 15. outflows of capital expenditure, tax and dividends.
The Group's dividend policy sets the payout target as increasing from 40% of adjusted diluted EPS to 50% over time.
The Board reviews the Groups dividend policy and funding requirements annually.
The Group holds The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within its committed bank credit facilities, and has been in a registered mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2015 compliance throughout the financial year.
the discounted fair value of the loan is 9.8m 2014: 8.6m.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables 26.
Employee costs is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which is separately disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 103 and forms part of these financial statements, With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain includes the notional gains arising on the exercise of share options and awards but excludes the charge in respect of these derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of Year to Year to A other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 40.8m was held with institutions with a rating below A 31 March 31 March at 31 March 2015, of which 36.6m was held in a UK government majority owned institution.
These amounts are monitored 2015 2014 m m on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
Wages and salaries 384.8 348.6 Social security costs 44.3 50.4 The Group has deposited CHF 0.3m 2014: CHF 0.3m, INR 0.2m 2014: INR 0.2m and AED 0.3m 2014: AED 0.3m which Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 21.0 25.4 is held as collateral at a number of European banks.
Other pension costs 18.0 16.9 Total 468.1 441.3 151 151 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: Number of employees Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 1 EMEIA 5,113 4,757 Americas 2,048 1,807 Asia Pacific 3,148 3,134 Total 10,309 9,698 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
Share options granted to directors and employees The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details of each of these schemes are set out in this note.
The share option schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
The Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan, which has market based performance conditions attached, has been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by running a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
Savings-Related Share Option Scheme In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
On 20 June 2014, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered to employees.
The savings contract commencement date for this grant was 1 September 2014.
These options are exercisable for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2017 and 1 September 2019 for the three-year and five-year schemes respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding the invitation date.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share from the London Stock Exchange.
The fair value per option for the grant is 1.52, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Share price at contract commencement date 14.34 Exercise price 12.16 Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Dividend yield 2.71% Expected volatility 34.5% Risk-free interest rate 1.28% 15 1522 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: Savings-Related Share Option Scheme continued Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Number of employees Weighted Year to Weighted average Year to Year to Year to 31 March average exercise 31 March exercise 31 March 31 March price 2015 price 2014 2015 2014 1 Outstanding at 1 April 1,066.0p 958,090 895.7p 1,009,317 EMEIA 5,113 4,757 Granted during the year 1,216.0p 704,230 1,220.0p 313,852 Americas 2,048 1,807 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,157.0p 156,786 1,020.5p 104,476 Asia Pacific 3,148 3,134 Withdrawn during the year 1,167.3p 47,131 1,001.5p 34,893 Total 10,309 9,698 Exercised during the year 931.1p 296,914 549.5p 225,710 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
Outstanding at 31 March 1,175.0p 1,161,489 1,066.0p 958,090 Exercisable at 31 March 1,049.0p 1,667 Share options granted to directors and employees The Group operates a number of equity-settled share based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details of The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.39 2014: 15.78. each of these schemes are set out in this note.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement Number of Number of shares under shares under date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend option as at option as at yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share Exercise 31 March 31 March price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry Option term price 2015 2014 Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
30 June 2009 28 February 2015 321.0p 48,331 30 June 2010 28 February 2016 557.0p 26,124 27,843 24 June 2011 28 February 2015 1,049.0p 1,667 271,890 The Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan, which has market based performance conditions attached, has been valued 24 June 2011 28 February 2017 1,049.0p 36,033 38,766 using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information obtained by running 22 June 2012 28 February 2016 1,104.0p 209,687 264,737 a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.
22 June 2012 28 February 2018 1,104.0p 13,455 15,356 20 June 2013 28 February 2017 1,220.0p 220,296 272,626 Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas 20 June 2013 28 February 2019 1,220.0p 15,166 18,541 equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
20 June 2014 28 February 2018 1,216.0p 603,642 20 June 2014 28 February 2020 1,216.0p 35,419 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Total 1,161,489 958,090 In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP Under the RSP participants may be awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base On 20 June 2014, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered to salary per annum.
Certain participants will be granted awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions, employees.
These options are exercisable while other participants will be granted awards subject to non-market performance conditions only.
A limited number of awards for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2017 and 1 September 2019 for the three-year and five-year schemes will be granted without performance conditions.
respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding The market performance condition is a measure of TSR performance relative to sector peers.
The non-market performance the invitation date.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share condition is compound annual adjusted PBT growth over a three year period from the date of grant.
from the London Stock Exchange.
Awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions will vest in full if the Group achieves at least upper The fair value per option for the grant is 1.52, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors quartile TSR relative to its global peers, and if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
A proportion of the award used in determining the fair value were as follows: 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the median of the peer group, or if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
Vesting against each metric occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if TSR performance is below the median of the peer group and if the adjusted PBT growth is below the threshold.
Of the Share price at contract commencement date 14.34 Exercise price 12.16 shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest after three years.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the Life of award Equivalent to vesting period fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Dividend yield 2.71% Expected volatility 34.5% Awards subject to non-market performance conditions only will vest in full if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is Risk-free interest rate 1.28% achieved.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if the adjusted PBT growth is below the threshold.
Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest after three years.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
15 1533 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The threshold and maximum adjusted PBT growth targets for the RSP awards that are still within the initial three year vesting period as at 31 March 2015 are: Three year compound adjusted PBT growth targets Number of awards outstanding as at Year of grant and participant group 31 March 2015 Threshold Maximum 2012 market and non-market conditions 1,217,556 10% 15% 2012 non-market conditions only 694,058 5% 15% 2012 no performance conditions 204,482 N A N A 2013 market and non-market conditions 1,236,762 10% 15% 2013 non-market conditions only 905,661 5% 15% 2013 no performance conditions 248,627 N A N A 2014 market and non-market conditions 836,249 5% 15% 2014 non-market conditions only 1,232,277 5% 15% 2014 no performance conditions 310,957 N A N A Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.
On 12 June 2014, further awards of 2,481,329 ordinary shares were made to senior management under the RSP 2014: 2,809,173.
This was the final award that will be granted under the RSP, which will be replaced by the Executive Share Plan ESP from 1 April 2015.
The fair value of the awards granted with PBT performance conditions was determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
A discount was applied to the awards with the TSR performance condition, by applying the Monte Carlo model.
12 June 2014 Fair value: PBT performance conditions 13.53 Fair value: TSR performance conditions 5.03 The key factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: 12 June 2014 Share price at grant date 14.68 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Dividend yield 2.71% Expected volatility 36.3% Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Outstanding at 1 April 7,675,508 7,759,198 Granted during the year 2,481,329 2,809,173 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 505,036 658,330 Exercised during the year 1,738,719 2,234,533 Outstanding at 31 March 7,913,082 7,675,508 Exercisable at 31 March 301,555 361,189 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.15 2014: 14.23.
15 1544 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The threshold and maximum adjusted PBT growth targets for the RSP awards that are still within the initial three year vesting Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: period as at 31 March 2015 are: Number of Number of awards as at awards as at Three year compound adjusted PBT 31 March 31 March growth targets Term of the award 2015 2014 Number of awards 21 July 2005 20 July 2015 5,411 5,411 outstanding as at 10 August 2006 9 August 2016 5,101 5,101 Year of grant and participant group 31 March 2015 Threshold Maximum 27 November 2006 26 November 2016 2,124 2,124 2012 market and non-market conditions 1,217,556 10% 15% 11 June 2007 10 June 2017 8,764 11,635 2012 non-market conditions only 694,058 5% 15% 21 November 2007 20 November 2017 373 2012 no performance conditions 204,482 N A N A 25 June 2008 24 June 2018 30,492 84,595 2013 market and non-market conditions 1,236,762 10% 15% 1 June 2009 31 May 2019 106,867 937,542 2013 non-market conditions only 905,661 5% 15% 30 June 2009 29 June 2019 1,375 2013 no performance conditions 248,627 N A N A 20 November 2009 19 November 2019 1,250 2014 market and non-market conditions 836,249 5% 15% 10 June 2010 9 June 2020 398,554 768,410 2014 non-market conditions only 1,232,277 5% 15% 22 November 2010 21 November 2020 3,000 26,199 2014 no performance conditions 310,957 N A N A 20 June 2011 19 June 2021 438,626 969,734 21 November 2011 20 November 2021 27,514 58,405 Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares 13 June 2012 12 June 2022 1,989,090 2,100,904 of the Company.
This was the final award that will be granted under the RSP, which will be replaced by the Executive Share 25 November 2013 24 November 2023 22,656 22,994 Plan ESP from 1 April 2015.
The fair value of the awards granted with PBT performance conditions was determined by 12 June 2014 11 June 2024 2,379,483 applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
A discount was applied to the awards with the TSR performance condition, Total 7,913,082 7,675,508 by applying the Monte Carlo model.
All Employee Share Plan 12 June 2014 Employees are offered awards of ordinary shares in the Company at a nil exercise price under an All Employee Share Plan.
Fair value: PBT performance conditions 13.53 All awards vest after three years and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment over the Fair value: TSR performance conditions 5.03 vesting period.
The key factors used in determining the fair value of the awards were as follows: On 31 July 2014, 212,940 ordinary shares were granted under this scheme 2014: 205,050.
The fair value of the awards granted is 14.14, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining 12 June 2014 the fair value were as follows: Share price at grant date 14.68 31 July 2014 Exercise price nil Share price at grant date 14.14 Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Exercise price nil Dividend yield 2.71% Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 36.3% Expected volatility 35.8% Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 2015 2014 Outstanding at 1 April 7,675,508 7,759,198 Outstanding at 1 April 458,410 454,190 Granted during the year 2,481,329 2,809,173 Granted during the year 212,940 205,050 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 505,036 658,330 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 89,280 74,280 Exercised during the year 1,738,719 2,234,533 Exercised during the year 81,030 126,550 Outstanding at 31 March 7,913,082 7,675,508 Outstanding at 31 March 501,040 458,410 Exercisable at 31 March 301,555 361,189 Exercisable at 31 March 64,180 53,320 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.15 2014: 14.23.
The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 15.06 2014: 14.56.
15 1555 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082.
The Burberry Co-Investment Plan Executive directors and certain senior management are able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year.
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period.
The exercise price of these share awards is nil.
The awards are also subject to secondary performance conditions.
Awards granted in 2012, 2013 and 2014 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three year vesting period.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per annum.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
None of the award vests if adjusted PBT growth is below 5% per annum.
On 12 June 2014, 849,617 ordinary shares were awarded under this scheme 2014: 934,419.
This was the final award granted under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan, which will be replaced by the Executive Share Plan ESP from 1 April 2015.
The fair value of the awards granted on 12 June 2014 is 14.62, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 12 June 2014 Share price at grant date 14.62 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 36.3% Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Outstanding at 1 April 3,348,510 5,179,615 Granted during the year 849,617 934,419 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 92,441 709,422 Withdrawn during the year 4,276 Exercised during the year 1,328,561 2,051,826 Outstanding at 31 March 2,777,125 3,348,510 Exercisable at 31 March 34,119 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 14.85 2014: 14.09.
15 1566 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
The vesting of all remaining options is dependent on continued employment for 17 July 2013 17 October 2016 83,880 107,700 the vesting period.
The exercise price of these share options is nil.
1 31 July 2014 18 July 2082 72,720 31 July 2014 31 October 2017 108,600 Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 March 2016.
Total 501,040 458,410 1 No date has been specified when awards lapse.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: The Burberry Co-Investment Plan Year to Year to Executive directors and certain senior management are able to defer receipt of all or part of their annual bonus and invest it 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and Group performance during the year.
The Outstanding at 1 April 350,000 850,000 matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive leaves within that period.
The exercise Forfeited during the year 500,000 price of these share awards is nil.
Outstanding at 31 March 350,000 350,000 Exercisable at 31 March Awards granted in 2012, 2013 and 2014 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three year vesting period.
June 2013 One-off Grant Vesting occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
None of the award vests if adjusted PBT On 14 June 2013, options in respect of 1,000,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
growth is below 5% per annum.
The options are due to vest in three stages: 20% are exercisable on 15 July 2016: 40% are exercisable on 15 July 2017: and On 12 June 2014, 849,617 ordinary shares were awarded under this scheme 2014: 934,419.
This was the final award granted the remaining 40% are exercisable on 15 July 2018.
The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan, which will be replaced by the Executive Share Plan ESP from 1 April 2015.
The fair over the vesting period.
value of the awards granted on 12 June 2014 is 14.62, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 15 July 2019.
12 June 2014 Share price at grant date 14.62 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Year to Year to Expected volatility 36.3% 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Outstanding at 1 April 1,000,000 Granted during the year 1,000,000 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Outstanding at 31 March 1,000,000 1,000,000 Year to Year to Exercisable at 31 March 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Outstanding at 1 April 3,348,510 5,179,615 Granted during the year 849,617 934,419 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 92,441 709,422 Withdrawn during the year 4,276 Exercised during the year 1,328,561 2,051,826 Outstanding at 31 March 2,777,125 3,348,510 Exercisable at 31 March 34,119 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 14.85 2014: 14.09.
15 1577 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued June 2014 One-off Grant On 12 June 2014, options in respect of 500,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The options are due to vest in three stages: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2017: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2018: and the remaining 50% are exercisable on 31 July 2019.
Key strategic performance objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must be met in order for the options to vest.
These performance conditions will be assessed at each of the relevant vesting dates, and each tranche will only vest to the extent that performance targets have been achieved at that date.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 July 2020.
The fair value of the award is 14.68, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 12 June 2014 Share price at grant date 14.68 Exercise price nil Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 36.3% Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to 31 March 2015 Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 500,000 Outstanding at 31 March 500,000 Exercisable at 31 March 27.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined as the Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 17.6 15.0 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Share based compensation 9.5 3.0 Total 27.2 18.2 There were no other material related party transactions in the period.
15 1588 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Principal subsidiaries June 2014 One-off Grant Company Note Country of incorporation Nature of business On 12 June 2014, options in respect of 500,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
EMEIA Burberry Limited UK Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor The options are due to vest in three stages: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2017: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2018: and Burberry Italy Retail Limited UK Luxury goods retailer the remaining 50% are exercisable on 31 July 2019.
Key strategic performance objectives linked to the long-term growth of 1 The Scotch House Limited UK Luxury goods brand and licensor the Group must be met in order for the options to vest.
These performance conditions will be assessed at each of the relevant Burberry France SASU France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler vesting dates, and each tranche will only vest to the extent that performance targets have been achieved at that date.
1 Burberry Suisse SA Switzerland Luxury goods retailer Burberry Spain Retail SL Spain Luxury goods retailer 1 Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 July 2020.
Burberry Italy SRL Italy Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler The fair value of the award is 14.68, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used Burberry Austria GmbH Austria Luxury goods retailer Burberry Antwerp N. V. Belgium Luxury goods retailer in determining the fair value were as follows: Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o. Czech Republic Luxury goods retailer Burberry Hungary kft.
Hungary Luxury goods retailer 12 June 2014 Burberry Ireland Limited Ireland Luxury goods retailer Share price at grant date 14.68 Burberry Netherlands BV Netherlands Luxury goods retailer Exercise price nil Burberry Middle East LLC 49% United Arab Emirates Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Burberry India Private Limited 51% India Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Expected volatility 36.3% Burberry Saudi Company Limited 75% 29 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Luxury goods retailer Risk-free interest rate 1.28% Americas Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Burberry Wholesale Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Canada Inc Canada Luxury goods retailer Year to Burberry Brasil Comrcio fide Artigos fide 31 March Vesturio e Acessrios Ltda Brazil Luxury goods retailer 2015 Horseferry Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Luxury goods retailer Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 500,000 Asia Pacific Outstanding at 31 March 500,000 Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd Peoples Republic of China Luxury goods retailer Exercisable at 31 March Burberry Asia Limited Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Singapore Distribution Company Pte 27.
Related party transactions Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Korea Limited Republic of Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined as the Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd Taiwan Luxury goods retailer Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
Bhd Malaysia Luxury goods retailer Burberry Japan K. K. formerly Burberry 29 The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: International K. K Japan Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler and licensor Burberry Thailand Limited Thailand Luxury goods retailer Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
2015 2014 m m In accordance with Section 410 2 a of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is provided solely in relation Salaries and short-term benefits 17.6 15.0 to principal subsidiaries.
Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Share based compensation 9.5 3.0 As at 31 March 2015, all principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned, except where indicated differently above, Total 27.2 18.2 and operate in the country in which they are incorporated with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates principally in Italy.
All shares held in subsidiary undertakings are ordinary shares, with the exception of Burberry Limited.
There were no other material related party transactions in the period.
The Group holds 100% of Burberry Limiteds ordinary and preference shares.
All the subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated as at 31 March 2015.
The Group has a 59% share in profits of Burberry Middle East LLC and has the power to appoint both the Chairperson and the majority of directors on the Board, thus establishing control.
Non-operating intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the list above.
Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group company, holds a 15% economic interest in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd.
Details of all Burberry subsidiaries will be annexed to the next Annual Return of Burberry Group plc to be filed at Companies House.
15 1599 Notes to the Financial Statements 29.
Changes in non-controlling interests On 30 May 2014, the Group exercised its option over the 29% equity stake in Burberry International K. K. previously held by Sanyo Shokai Limited, increasing its equity holding to 100%.
This option was acquired on 29 March 2013, and was exercisable at a nominal fixed price, hence the non-controlling interest in Burberry International K. K. had been previously derecognised on acquiring the option.
On 3 August 2014, Burberry International K. K. merged with Burberry Japan K. K. On 24 November 2014, the Group paid 3.4m to acquire an additional 15% equity interest in Burberry Saudi Company Limited, increasing its equity holding in Burberry Saudi Company Limited to 75%.
Contingent Liabilities In a number of jurisdictions the Group is subject to tax audits and claims against it covering, inter alia, valued added taxes, sales taxes, customs duties, corporate taxes and payroll taxes.
Included in these claims is a dispute with the Spanish tax authorities regarding the tax treatment of interest paid during the year ended 31 March 2005 arising in respect of debt that was put in place after the Group had taken specialist external advice.
The Group is looking to resolve this dispute by all reasonable means.
Where appropriate, the estimated cost of known obligations have been provided in these financial statements in accordance with the Groups accounting policies but these matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
While changes to the amounts that may be payable could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised the Group does not currently expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
