Strategic Report Core Strategies PURSUE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Drive greater efficiency and productivity throughout the business.
Burberrys productivity agenda includes opportunities in Ongoing investment retail, products and processes.
This will be the subject Burberry continued to invest in technology to support of intense focus for the next phase of Burberrys growth, the Companys digital strategy, growth ambitions and to as the Company leverages the investments made in improve operational efficiencies.
During the year Burberry initiated a project to upgrade the Companys core IT systems, based around SAP Key focus areas during 2014 15: which was first introduced into the business in 2007.
Supply chain Key investments made in product engineering, and Planning sustainable manufacturing continued to drive greater Burberry evolved its inventory management and commercial end-to-end control of the Burberry supply chain.
analysis processes to optimise retail execution.
During the second half of the year, the Company tested Global product buying and allocation activities were further a new inventory approach in China by allowing the digital refined with the roll-out of a store profiling initiative.
This operation to draw on both the local distribution centre and initiative allowed for a better alignment between product store data to create a virtual single pool of inventory in the assortments and the particular store characteristics country.
This provided customers and store associates such as local climate and customer profile, to deliver with full visibility of all stock within the country, improved a more customer-centric product range by store.
product availability online and in-store, and meaningfully The Brand Buy was further evolved, which aimed to reduced delivery times, enhancing the customer shopping bring greater product consistency across Burberrys experience.
This model of integrating online and offline retail stores based on key design inspiration, optimising inventory was planned to be implemented within both product assortments and core product replenishment.
the UK and USA in the coming year.
Burberry further evolved its sourcing model to a more Process investments collaborative and sustainable manufacturing approach, Burberry continued to invest in its head office and focusing on key strategic raw material and finished back-office functions to drive efficiencies.
There was an ongoing focus on the commercial procurement process to drive further efficiencies and cost savings.
