Shareholder Information Shareholder Information General shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of An interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 March 2015 shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates of 9.70p per ordinary share was paid on 23 January 2015. or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys Afinal dividend of 25.5p per share has been proposed Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below: and, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015, will be paid according to the following timetable: Equiniti Aspect House Final dividend record date: 3 July 2015 Spencer Road Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms: 10 July 2015 Lancing Final dividend payment date: 31 July 2015 West Sussex BN99 6DA The ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend payment date Tel: 0871 384 2839.
Calls cost 8p per minute plus network for ordinary shareholders.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK bank Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the UK account, with the tax voucher being sent to the shareholders or see help.
co. uk for additional information.
This is the easiest way for shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids the risk of lost or out-of-date American Depositary Receipts cheques.
A dividend mandate form is available from Equiniti Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary or at www.
Receipt ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase ADRs in US Dollars.
Each ADR represents Dividends payable in foreign currencies oneBurberry ordinary share.
Equiniti are able to pay dividends to shareholder bank accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use the Overseas Payment Service.
An administrative fee will be following contact details: deducted from each dividend payment.
Further details can be obtained from Equiniti or online at www.
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services P. O.
BOX 30170 Dividend Reinvestment Plan College Station, TX 77842-3170 The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP enables shareholders to use their dividends to buy further Burberry Telephone: Toll free within the US: 1 888 269 2377 shares.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti.
Telephone: International: 1 201 680 6825 If shareholders would like their final 2015 and future Email enquiries: shrrelations@.
com dividends to qualify for the DRIP, completed application Website: www.
com forms must be returned to Equiniti by 10 July 2015.
Annual General Meeting Duplicate accounts Burberrys Annual General Meeting will be held at the Shareholders who have more than one account due to offices of Nomura, 1 Angel Lane, London, EC4R 3AB inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 16 July 2015. mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the amalgamation of their share accounts.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the businessto be conducted at the meeting, is available Electronic communication onthe Companys website at www.
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all shareholder documentation in electronic form via the The voting results for the 2015 Annual General Meeting internet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders who willbe accessible on the Companys website at decide to register for this option will receive an email www.
com shortly after the meeting.
eachtime a shareholder document is published on the internet.
Shareholders who wish to receive documentation in electronic form should register online at www.
171 Shareholder Information Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and ShareGift services online at www.
A textphone Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value facility for those with hearing difficulties is available ofwhich makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish to bycalling 0871 384 2255.
Calls cost 8p per minute consider donating their shares to charity through ShareGift, plusnetwork extras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, a donation scheme operated by The Orr Mackintosh Monday to Friday.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained callingfrom outside the UK.
Further information is available at www.
Financial calendar First quarter trading update 15 July 2015 Share price information Annual General Meeting 16 July 2015 The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available First half trading update October 2015 onthe Companys website at www.
Interim results announcement November 2015 Third quarter trading update January 2016 Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Second half trading update April 2016 Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Preliminary results announcement May 2016 advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based Registered office brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them Burberry Group plc what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Horseferry House USA or UK investments.
These operations are commonly Horseferry Road known as boiler rooms.
London SW1P 2AW If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get the correct name of the person and organisation and check Registered in England and Wales that they are properly authorised by the FCA before Registered Number 03458224 gettinginvolved by visiting www.
com If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be Share dealing eligibleto receive payment under the Financial Services Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Equiniti offers atelephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised conditions and details of the commission charges are firm you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 08456 037 037 More detailed information can be found on the FCA website between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and at www.
uk consumers protect-yourself forinternet dealing visit www.
Shareholders will need their reference number which canbe found on their share certificate.
Website This Annual Report and other information about Burberry Group plc, including share price information and details of results announcements, are available at www.
The cover and accounts section of this report pages 109-172 are printed on Colorplan.
This product is made from virgin ECF pulp, which is produced from sawmill residues, forest thinnings, and roundwood from managed sustainable forests.
The main section pages 1-108 are printed on Oxygen Offset which is made from 100% fide-inked pulp recycled fibre.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their and technology.
Pureprint is a Carbon Neutral Company.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Disclaimer The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements that are .
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations andthose of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation ofthis document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any BurberryGroup plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USA Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
