Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with Transparency Rules applicable laws and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 45 to 47 confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company belief: financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with The Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, European Union EU and applicable law.
Further, they have elected liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with The Strategic report and Directors report contained on pages UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted 2 to 41 and pages 48 to 58, respectively, include a fair review of the Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
development and performance of the business and the position of Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view risks and uncertainties that they face.
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Directors statement pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, The Directors consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken the Directors are required to: as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys and the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent Disclosure of information to auditors For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU information as defined in Section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditor is unaware, and the Directors have taken For the Company financial statements, state whether applicable all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to material departures disclosed and explained in the Company establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
financial statements By order of the Board Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will Clare Underwood continue in business Company Secretary 19 May 2015 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that their financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to include a report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the Company.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Group and Companys website www.
Information published on the Companys website is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual Report 2014 15 89 Financial statements The contents below clearly show where you can find information relevant to you.
We have presented the financial information in five sections to provide readers with a clearer understanding of what drives the financial performance of the Group.
Plain English explanations are provided throughout these financial statements.
92-99 Primary financial statements and narrative 100-102 Basis of preparation 103-113 Results for the year 114-131 Operating assets and liabilities 132-142 Capital structure and financing 143-158 Other 159-161 Independent auditors report 162-168 Company financial statements 90 Cable & Wireless Communications We are the leading landline service provider in 17 out of 18 markets.
