Section five Other This section includes all other notes including accounting policies and critical judgements, commitments and guarantees, licences and operating agreements, legal proceedings, related party transactions, share-based payments, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates and events after the reporting period.
5.1 Significant accounting policies This section sets out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
1 Foreign currencies a Functional currency Amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
b Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised through profit or loss.
c Foreign operations The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency of US dollars are translated as follows: i Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date: ii Income and expenses are translated at rates closely approximating the rate at the date of the transactions: and iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
On disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the same period in which the gain or loss on disposal is recognised.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities are taken to shareholders equity.
Where investments are matched in whole or in part by foreign currency loans, the exchange differences arising on the retranslation of such loans are also recorded as movements in the Groups translation reserves and any excess taken to profit or loss.
There are no Group entities operating in a hyperinflationary economy.
Annual Report 2014 15 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.1 Significant accounting policies continued The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of these accounts are as follows: 2014 15 2013 14 : US$ Average 0.6206 0.6313 Year end 0.6705 0.6059 : US$ Average 0.7895 0.7461 Year end 0.9101 0.7258 Jamaican$ : US$ Average 112.6438 102.7058 Year end 114.8900 109.1550 Seychelles Rupee : US$ Average 13.1440 11.9863 Year end 13.7550 12.1713 Colombian Peso : US$ Average N A N A Year end 2,544.9250 N A Trinidad and Tobago$ : US$ Average 6.3687 6.4117 Year end 6.3418 6.3803 5.1.
2 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes labour and overhead costs arising directly from the construction or acquisition of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Plant and equipment represents the Groups network infrastructure assets.
The estimated costs of dismantling and removing assets, typically cell sites and network equipment, and restoring land on which they are located are included in the cost of property, plant and equipment.
The corresponding obligation is recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group and the cost can be measured reliably.
All other subsequent costs primarily repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred.
Depreciation is not recognised on freehold land or assets under construction.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the cost of property, plant and equipment, on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Lives Cables up to 20 years Network equipment 3 to 25 years Ducting 40 years Freehold buildings 40 years Leasehold buildings up to 40 years or term of lease if less Asset useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each reporting date.
An assets carrying amount is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount through sale or use.
3 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from acquired assets that are not capable of being individually identified and separately recognised.
The goodwill recorded in the Groups statement of financial position is calculated using two different methods, depending on the acquisition date, as a result of changes in accounting standards.
All business combinations that occurred since 31 March 2010 are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations revised.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
All transaction costs are expensed as incurred.
All other business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations 2004.
Costs attributable to these combinations are included in the cost of acquisition.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
b Other intangible assets Costs that are directly associated with the purchase and implementation of identifiable and unique software products by the Group are recognised as intangible assets.
Expenditures that enhance and extend the benefits of computer software programs beyond their original specifications and lives are recognised as a capital improvement and added to the original cost of the software.
Intangible assets relating to customer contracts, customer relationships and licences obtained as part of the Groups business combinations are recorded initially at their fair values.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Other intangible assets that do not have indefinite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis over their respective lives which are usually based on contractual terms.
The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable.
Lives Software 3 to 5 years Licences Up to 25 years or the licence term if less Customer contracts and relationships, brands and licences 4 to 10 years Internally generated intangibles, excluding capitalised development costs, are not capitalised and the related expenditure is reflected in profit or loss for the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
4 Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: cash and cash equivalents: trade and other receivables: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: available-for-sale financial assets: and held-to-maturity investments.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the assets are held.
The Group does not currently classify any assets as held-to-maturity investments.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial assets other than those held at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and at bank, money market funds and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less.
They are highly liquid monetary investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position is considered to approximate fair value.
Bank overdrafts are included within borrowings and classified in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a third party with no intention of trading the receivable.
Trade and other receivables are presented in current assets in the statement of financial position, except for those with maturities greater than one year after the reporting date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
Annual Report 2014 15 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.1 Significant accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets that are either held for trading or those designated upon initial recognition.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term or if so designated by management.
These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each reporting date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments that are not designated as hedge instruments are recognised immediately through profit or loss.
The Interest Rate Option Pricing Method was used to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative associated with the unsecured senior notes of US$1,250 million assumed in the acquisition of Columbus note 4.5.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or designated as fair value through profit or loss.
These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category upon initial recognition or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within one year of the reporting date and such assets recognised in this category by the Group include UK and Bahamian government gilts.
Purchases and disposals of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences, are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the fair value reserve within Capital and Other reserves in equity.
When an asset is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified through profit or loss.
Due to the conditions attaching to the regulatory approval from the Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, the Group was required to divest of its shareholding in TSTT as at 31 March 2015.
As significant influence was lost TSTT was reclassified as a held for sale equity investment note 3.8.
Financial liabilities The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following categories: trade and other payables: borrowings: financial liabilities at amortised cost: and financial liabilities at fair value.
Management determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date for financial liabilities other than those held at fair value.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value net of directly attributable transaction costs incurred and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds received net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised through profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The financial liabilities recognised in this category include secured and unsecured bonds and facilities and other loans held by the Group and are presented in borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the reporting date.
Financial liabilities at fair value This category includes a puttable instrument on non-controlling interests relating to the acquisition of Monaco Telecom the Monaco Telecom put option and derivative financial instruments.
The CMC put option, more fully described in note 4.6, was issued and redeemed during the year with no impact on profit or loss.
These financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised through profit or loss except for changes in the fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option.
The fair value of the Monaco Telecom put option is based on the present value of the redemption amount, calculated using discounted cash flow techniques, as if the puttable instrument had been exercised at the reporting date.
Movements in the fair value of the liability are recognised as adjustments to goodwill in accordance with IFRS 3 Business combinations 2004.
The Monaco put option, more fully described in note 4.6, was cancelled in the year ended 31 March 2015 with no impact on profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost This category includes the redemption option relating to shares issued as part of the acquisition of Columbus.
The redemption options were initially recognised at the present value of the future obligations and will be amortised on a straight line basis over the redemption option period.
5 Impairment of assets Financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss or a group of those financial assets is impaired.
146 Cable & Wireless Communications An impairment allowance is established for trade receivables when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Non-financial assets Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
All other non-current assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashgenerating units.
The Group determines any impairment by comparing the carrying values of each of the Groups assets or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs to their recoverable amounts, which is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value represents market value in an active market.
Value in use is determined by discounting future cash flows arising from the asset.
Future cash flows are determined with reference to the Groups own projections using pre-tax discount rates.
Impairment reviews involve management making assumptions and estimates, which are highly judgemental and susceptible to change.
6 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is the price paid less any rebates, trade discounts or subsidies.
It also includes delivery charges and import duties, but does not include value added taxes or advertising and administration costs.
Cost is based on the first-in, first-out FIFO principle.
For inventories held for resale, net realisable value is determined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less costs to sell.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories as required.
7 Share capital Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares, standalone options or the repurchase of shares are recognised in equity against share premium.
Instruments over own shares that conveys the right to the option holder to require the Company to pay a fixed amount of cash for a fixed number of shares are classified as equity instruments and recorded in other reserves.
Such instruments are not remeasured subsequently.
The present value of the redemption amount of the option is recognised as a financial liability with the corresponding debit recognised in other reserves in equity.
8 Leases All Group leases are operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of lease incentives or premiums received, are recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
9 Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale When the value of non-current assets is expected to be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing usage, they are available for immediate sale in their present condition and a sale is highly probable, they are classified as assets held for sale.
With the exception of deferred tax assets, assets arising from employee benefits and financial instruments, the assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Disposal groups are groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
They are recognised as held for sale at the reporting date and are separately disclosed as current assets and liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Any amortisation and depreciation ceases when classified as held for sale.
Measurement differences arising between the carrying amount and fair value less cost of disposal are treated as impairment charges and separately disclosed.
Due to the conditions attaching to the regulatory approval from Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago, the Group were required to divest of its shareholding in TSTT as at 31 March 2015.
This required a reclassification from investments in associates to a held for sale equity investment note 3.8.
10 Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Group where the operations and cash flows are clearly distinguished from the rest of the Group and which: Represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: Is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations: or Is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs on disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative income statement and cash flow statement are restated as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.
Annual Report 2014 15 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.1 Significant accounting policies continued The Monaco business was disposed of on 20 May 2014 and is classified as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2015.
The comparative income statement and cash flow statement are restated for the year ended 31 March 2014.
11 Employee benefits Defined contribution pensions A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as operating costs as they are incurred through profit or loss.
Defined benefit obligations A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
These schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or Trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of each defined benefit pension plan represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
Assets are only recognised to the extent that the present value of the economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan exceed the fair value of the plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations.
Defined benefit obligations for each scheme are calculated annually by independent actuaries.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses, arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in the period in which they occur in the statement of other comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately through profit or loss.
Current service costs and any past service costs, together with the unwinding of the discount on net plan assets or liabilities, are included within operating costs through profit or loss.
Share-based compensation The Group operates various equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options over shares in the Company is recognised as an operating cost through profit or loss over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in other reserves in equity.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, which excludes the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example service, profitability and cash flow targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in estimates about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The Group recognises termination benefits within other provisions when it is demonstrably committed to the action leading to the employees termination.
Bonus plans The Group recognises a liability in the statement of financial position in relation to bonuses payable to employees where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation.
12 Tax Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised through profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income and equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income or equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements, except where the difference arises from: The initial recognition of goodwill: or The initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, affecting neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the temporary differences reverse, based on rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
148 Cable & Wireless Communications Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
13 Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
They are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are presented in the statement of financial position at the present value of the estimated future outflows expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Provision charges and reversals are recognised through profit or loss.
Discount unwinding is recognised as a finance expense.
14 Revenue recognition Group revenue, which excludes discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of services and goods provided to customers.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associates but does not include sales by joint ventures and associates or sales between Group companies.
Revenue is recognised only when payment is probable.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are provided.
In respect of services invoiced in advance, amounts are deferred until provision of the service.
Amounts payable by and to other telecommunications operators are recognised as the services are provided.
Charges are negotiated separately and are subject to continual review.
Revenue generated through the provision of these services is accounted for gross of any amounts payable to other telecommunications operators for interconnect fees.
Revenue from mobile, broadband, video and fixed line products comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime and usage, messaging and other telecommunications services.
This includes data services and information provision and revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets.
Monthly access charges from mobile, broadband, video and fixed line products are invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Airtime, either from contract customers as part of the invoiced amount or from prepaid customers through the sale of prepaid credit, is recorded in the period in which the customer uses the service.
Unbilled revenue resulting from services provided to contract customers from the billing cycle date to the end of each period is accrued.
Unearned monthly access charges relating to periods after each accounting period are deferred.
The Group earns revenue from the transmission of content and traffic on its network originated by third-party providers.
Third-party dealers and partners are also used to facilitate the sale and provision of some services and equipment sold by the Group.
We assess whether revenue should be recorded gross as principal or net as agent, based on the features of such arrangements including the following factors: Whether the Group holds itself out as an agent: Whether the Group has latitude for establishing the price, either directly or indirectly, for example by providing additional services: Provision of customer remedies: Whether the Group has the primary responsibility for providing the services to the customer or for fulfilling the order: and Assumption of credit risk.
Revenue from sales of telecommunications equipment is recognised upon delivery to the customer.
The total consideration on arrangements with multiple revenue generating activities generally the sale of telecoms equipment and ongoing service is allocated to those components that are capable of operating independently, based on the estimated fair value of the components.
The fair value of each component is determined by amounts charged when sold separately and by reference to sales of equivalent products and services by third parties.
Revenue arising from the provision of other services, including maintenance contracts, is recognised over the periods in which the service is provided.
Customer acquisition costs including dealer commissions and similar payments are expensed as incurred.
15 Exceptional items Exceptional items are material items within profit or loss that derive from individual events that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group that are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
16 Transactions with holders of non-controlling interests Transactions to acquire or dispose of ownership interests in the Groups subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
In these cases, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in the Groups relative interest in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company.
Annual Report 2014 15 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements A number of estimates and assumptions have been made relating to the reporting of results of operations and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Directors consider that the following discussion addresses the Groups most critical accounting estimates.
These particular policies require subjective and complex assessments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
1 Impairment The Directors assess property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value is less than its recoverable amount.
Factors that are considered important and that could trigger an impairment review include the following: Obsolescence or physical damage: Significant changes in technology and regulatory environments: Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results: Significant changes in the use of the assets or the strategy of the overall business: Significant negative industry or economic trends: and Significant decline in the market capitalisation relative to net book value for a sustained period.
The Directors also assess the carrying value of the Groups interests in joint ventures and associate undertakings to identify whether there is any objective evidence of impairment.
The identification of impairment triggers is a key judgement.
Where an impairment review is required, the Group generally determines recoverable amount based on value in use.
The key estimates used in calculating value in use are the discount rate, revenue growth, operating cost margin and capital expenditure.
Estimates are based on extrapolated approved three-year business plans.
In addition, the Directors test goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life at least annually for impairment.
Note 3.4 sets out the assumptions and estimates used during these assessments.
2 Receivables allowance The impairment allowance for trade receivables reflects the Groups estimates of losses arising from the failure or inability of the Groups customers to make required payments.
The allowance is based on the ageing of customer accounts, customer creditworthiness and the Groups historical write-off experience.
Changes to the allowance may be required if the financial condition of the Groups customers improves or deteriorates.
An improvement in financial condition may result in lower actual write-offs.
Historically, changes to the estimate of losses have not been material to the Groups financial position and results.
3 Revenue recognition Judgement is required in assessing the application of revenue recognition principles and the specific guidance in respect of Group revenue.
This includes the allocation of revenue between multiple deliverables, such as the sale value of telecommunications equipment and ongoing service, where such items are sold as part of a bundled package.
4 Exceptional items Judgement is required in assessing the classification of items as exceptional and assessing the timing of recognising exceptional provisions.
The Group has established criteria for assessing the classification and a consistent approach is applied each period.
5 Tax The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation in respect of certain items where the tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, if necessary, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of the administrative and legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge through profit or loss and tax payments made.
6 Pensions The Group provides several defined benefit pension schemes for its employees.
The asset or liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans represents the fair value of plan assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the reporting date.
The expected cost of providing these defined benefit pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: The life expectancy of the members: The length of service: The rate of salary progression: The rate used to discount future net pension assets or liabilities: and Future inflation rates.
The assumptions used by the Group are set out in note 3.10 and are estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to the median estimates in this regard used by FTSE 250 companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially affect the defined benefit schemes liabilities and assets.
7 Business combinations The recognition of business combinations requires the excess of the purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group makes judgements and estimates in relation to the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
If any unallocated portion is positive, it is recognised as goodwill and if negative, it is recognised in the income statement.
5.3 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities 5.3.
1 Commitments A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position since we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier.
We have a number of commitments, mainly in relation to leases and agreements to buy fixed assets.
The amounts below are the minimum we are committed to pay.
Capital commitments at the end of the financial year for the continuing Group relating to the purchase of plant and equipment was US$45 million 2013 14 US$92 million.
No provision has been made for these commitments.
US$nil 31 March 2014 US$10 million of these commitments relate to the Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates.
In addition, the Group has a number of operating commitments arising in the ordinary course of the Groups business.
The most significant of these relate to network operating and maintenance costs.
In the event of default of another party, the Group may be liable to additional contributions under the terms of the agreements.
The Group leases land and buildings and networks under various lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalations, clauses and renewal rights.
The operating lease expenditure related to the year ended 31 March 2015 is disclosed in note 2.3.
The aggregate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are: 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 US$m US$m No later than one year 49 35 Later than one year but not later than five years 107 76 Later than five years 30 20 Total minimum operating lease payments 186 131 In 2012, Columbus Networks entered into an agreement with one of its customers, the Customer whereby the Customer has transferred ownership to Columbus Networks of a subsea link it had constructed to connect Haiti to Columbus Network the Haiti Link.
In exchange for transferring ownership, the Customer received capacity on the Haiti Link and other consideration, which is recorded as deferred revenue.
Also as part of the agreement, Columbus Networks and the Customer are entitled to 50% of the revenue collected from the sale or lease of capacity on the Haiti Link until such time as the Customer has recovered the US$12 million cost it incurred to construct the Haiti Link.
Once the Customer recovers its construction costs Columbus Networks is entitled to all revenues generated from the Haiti Link into perpetuity thereafter.
Annual Report 2014 15 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.3 Commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities continued On 22 October 2004, a subsidiary of the Group became a party to the Atlantic Cable Maintenance and Repair Agreement ACMA.
ACMA is a consortium of submarine cable systems that collectively share the standing costs of submarine cable system maintenance based on the number of kilometres of cable that comprises their respective cable system.
The costs of repairing individual cable faults are in excess of the standing charges and are borne by the respective cable system.
The original ACMA contract was twice renewed and recently extended for an additional period expiring on 31 December 2017.
The subsidiarys estimated annual minimum payments related to standing charges, net of any credits per contractual terms are approximately US$3 million.
2 Guarantees Guarantees at the end of the year for which no provision has been made in the financial statements are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 US$m US$m Trading guarantees 44 50 Other guarantees 473 329 Total guarantees 517 379 Trading guarantees Trading guarantees principally comprise performance bonds for contracts concluded in the normal course of business, guaranteeing that the Group will meet its obligations to complete projects in accordance with the contractual terms and conditions.
The nature of contracts includes projects, service level agreements, installation of equipment, surveys, purchase of equipment and transportation of materials.
The guarantees contain a clause that they will be terminated on final acceptance of work to be done under the contract.
Other guarantees Other guarantees include guarantees for financial obligations principally in respect of business disposals, letters of credit, property and other leases.
The Group is party to a contingent funding agreement with the Cable & Wireless Superannuation Fund CWSF Trustees, under which the Trustees can call for a letter of credit or cash escrow in certain circumstances, such as the breach by the Group of certain financial covenants, the incurrence by the Group of secured debt above an agreed level or the failure to maintain available commitments under the revolving credit facilities of at least US$150 million.
Following the Groups issue of the 2020 bonds in January 2012 and the consequential increase in the Groups available secured borrowings, letters of credit totalling 100 million had been issued in favour of the CWSF Trustee under the Contingent Funding Agreement.
These letters of credit expired in February 2014 following the Groups redemption of the 2017 US$500 million bonds and consequential decrease in the Groups available secured borrowings.
New letters of credit totalling 100 million US$149 million were put in place in connection with the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Contingent Funding Agreement.
In addition, the Group, as is considered standard practice in such agreements, has given guarantees and indemnities in relation to a number of business disposals.
Generally, liability has been capped at no more than the value of the sales proceeds, although some uncapped indemnities have been given.
In relation to the Islands disposal to Batelco International Group Holding Limited note 2.8.
2 the Group has provided a guarantee for up to US$300 million in respect of tax-related claims until April 2020 and all other indemnity claims until April 2015.
The Group has also provided indemnities in respect of the Monaco Telecom SAM disposal to a private investment vehicle owned by Xavier Niel note 2.8.
The Group also gives warranties and indemnities in relation to certain agreements including facility sharing agreements.
Some of these agreements do not contain liability caps.
The Group may be required to provide performance and payment guarantees in respect of its contractual obligations under key supplier or customer arrangements.
The provision of these guarantees is made on an exceptional basis and such guarantees terminate upon full satisfaction of the relevant performance and or payment obligations.
The Group no longer provides guarantees to third parties in respect of trading contracts between third parties and the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group.
3 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
Under the Separation Agreement, Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide now wholly owned by Vodafone Group Plc agree to provide each other with certain customary indemnities on a reciprocal basis in respect of liabilities which the Group may incur but which relate exclusively to the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group and vice versa and in respect of an agreed proportion of liabilities which do not relate exclusively to one Group or the other.
152 Cable & Wireless Communications While Pender, the Groups former insurance operation, ceased to underwrite new business from April 2003, it has in the past written policies in favour of the Group and third parties.
Potentially significant insurance claims have been made against Pender under certain of these third-party policies, which have also given rise to uncertainties and potential disputes with reinsurers.
Significant progress has been made in resolving these claims.
Details of these insurance claims and potential claims are not disclosed as such disclosure may be prejudicial to the outcome of such claims.
While the Group has ceased participation in the Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund MNOPF, it may be liable for contributions to fund a portion of any funding deficits which may occur in the future.
At 31 March 2015, the Group has scheduled payments to the MNOPF through September 2020 totalling 1.7 million relating to the actuarial valuations made by the MNOPF Trustee as at 31 March 2006, 2009 and 2012.
It is possible that the MNOPF Trustee may invoice us in the future for additional amounts to the extent that there is an actuarially determined funding deficit.
It is not possible to quantify the amount of any potential additional funding liability at this time.
Legal proceedings are discussed in note 5.5.
5.4 Licences and operating agreements In all countries in which it operates, the Group holds licences to operate or operating agreements.
These licences and operating agreements take a variety of forms and their terms, rights and obligations vary significantly.
The Group assumes that it will renew these licences and operating agreements as they expire.
Previous history indicates this is the most likely outcome.
The Group is currently in the process of renewing its mobile licences in Antigua and Barbuda.
In December 2014, the Groups Anguilla telecommunications licence was renewed for a term of 10 years expiring in December 2024.
It was also confirmed that the licence in Montserrat has been renewed for a term expiring in September 2022.
The Columbus subsidiaries operate their local businesses under the applicable telecommunications licences for each jurisdiction.
As part of the regulatory clearance process connected with the acquisition, the Group is well advanced in the process of obtaining consents from regulators, where required, for the indirect change of control in the Columbus subsidiaries arising from the acquisition of Columbus.
The Group does not have any concession agreements with governments that fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements.
On demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide business, the Cable & Wireless brand was transferred to a joint venture entity owned by, and for the continuing use of, the Cable & Wireless Communications and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Groups.
As part of this transfer, Cable & Wireless Communications received a royalty-free licence, granting rights to use the Cable & Wireless brand in all of the Groups current operating jurisdictions and the wider Caribbean and South American regions.
These licence arrangements remain in force despite Vodafone Group Plcs acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group in July 2012.
There were no other significant changes to the terms of the licences held by the Groups subsidiaries or operating agreements with governments during the periods presented.
5.5 Legal proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated in determining whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific case is necessary or sufficient.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited was the defendant to legal proceedings brought against it by Digicel Jamaica.
The dispute related to certain amounts claimed by Digicel as due to them for interconnection.
Group management believed that all deductions made by Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited from amounts paid to Digicel were validly made in accordance with determinations and orders issued by the relevant local regulator.
Cable & Wireless Jamaica Limited and Digicel Jamaica entered into a conditional settlement agreement in relation to interconnection charges bringing this dispute to a conclusion.
In 2006, a subsidiary, Columbus Communications Trinidad Limited Columbus Trinidad, acquired physical and intangible assets from Trinidad and Tobago Trans-Cable Company Unlimited T&T Trans-Cable.
In September 2012, T&T Trans-Cable which is an ultimately wholly owned subsidiary of Columbus International Inc. received various notices of assessment from the Board of Inland Revenue BIR of the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago with respect to Columbus Trinidads acquisition of these assets, raising a tax assessment for the sale of fixed and intangible assets on the grounds that the purchase price for the fixed and intangible assets represented income to T&T Trans-Cable, that the purchase price was a distribution to the T&T Trans-Cable shareholders, and that Value Added Tax was payable on the proceeds from the sale of the T&T Trans-Cable fixed assets.
Columbus Trinidad objected to the BIR assessments in October 2012.
On 3 November 2014, Columbus Trinidad received notice that BIR has rejected this objection: Columbus Trinidad objected to the BIR notice on 26 November 2014.
Management believes that the BIR assessments are not in accordance with Trinidad and Tobago tax law: consequently they consider no provision for any liability is required.
Annual Report 2014 15 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.6 Related party transactions The related parties identified by the Directors include joint ventures, associated undertakings, investments and key management personnel.
To enable users of our financial statements to form a view about the effects of related party relationships on the Group we disclose the related party relationship when control exists, irrespective of whether there have been transactions between the related parties.
Transactions with joint ventures and associates All trade transactions with joint ventures and associates arise in the normal course of business and primarily relate to fees for use of the Groups products and services, network and access charges.
Group subsidiaries had transactions with Telecommunications Services of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd and Seychelles Cable System Limited during the year.
The transactions were in relation to the sale and purchase of telecommunication services.
In respect of these transactions, US$3 million has been reported within revenue and US$2 million in cost of sales 2013 14 US$3 million and US$2 million respectively.
The Group received dividends of US$nil from joint ventures and associates 2013 14 US$4 million.
At 31 March 2015, joint ventures and associates owed US$nil 31 March 2014 US$2 million in respect of trading balances.
There were no other material trade transactions with joint ventures and associates during the year.
Transactions with key management personnel There have been no transactions with key management personnel of the Group other than the Director and key management remuneration.
Director and key management remuneration is disclosed in note 2.3.
Transactions with other related parties There are no controlling shareholders of the Group as defined by IFRS.
There have been no material transactions with the shareholders of the Group.
Pensions contributions to Group schemes are disclosed in note 3.10.
The Group has US$56 million of loans receivable and US$20 million of other receivables with legal entities controlled by Brendan Paddick, CVBI Holdings Barbados Inc. and Clearwater Holdings Barbados Limited as of 31 March 2015.
The loan receivable of US$56 million relates to the two year term facility agreement for US$74 million that was entered into on 27 March 2015.
The interest rate on the term loan facility is based on the Groups cost of borrowing and payable in arrears.
Other than the parties disclosed above, the Group has no other material related parties.
5.7 Share-based payments We have a number of share plans used to award shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration package.
A charge is recognised in the consolidated income statement to record the cost of these, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date.
For further information on how this is calculated refer to share-based compensation under significant accounting policies on page 148.
Additional information on options and shares granted to Directors can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 68 to 88.
Accounting policy detailed in note 5.1.
11 Share option schemes The Group does not currently have outstanding share option awards over its own shares 2013 14 nil other than awards of performance shares granted as nil-cost options.
There are no outstanding share option awards relating to options granted by Cable and Wireless plc to senior employees 2013 14 no options outstanding.
These options were originally granted over Cable and Wireless plc shares at exercise prices between 101 to 154 pence.
All options have vested in full.
Subsequent to the demerger, these options were redesignated as an option over a stapled unit of one share in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and one share in Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc an unrelated company.
The share price of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc at 31 March 2013 and the final share price of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc prior to its takeover by Vodafone Group Plc were such that the obligation for these stapled unit options was US$nil.
During the year, 17,049,197 options were exercised 2013 14 no options were exercised.
No options lapsed during the year 2013 14 1,246,303.
154 Cable & Wireless Communications Other equity instrument awards Performance shares Executive Directors and other senior executives can receive awards of performance shares at nil cost.
The vesting of outstanding performance shares granted in June 2010 and 2011 are subject to Cable & Wireless Communications Plc absolute TSR performance conditions see performance conditions for share-based award on page 83.
For the performance shares granted in January 2013, performance is based on a combination of relative TSR against a bespoke comparator group and earnings per share EPS performance measures.
For the performance shares granted in May 2013 performance is based on relative TSR against a bespoke comparator group.
For the performance shares granted in December 2013, January 2014, May 2014 and July 2014 performance is based on non-market performance measures.
A dividend award supplement operates on all these awards.
Dividends that would have been paid on the performance shares which vest will be regarded as having been reinvested in additional shares at the notional date of distribution.
Restricted Share Plan Restricted shares are awarded to senior management and selected other employees, primarily as a retention or a recruitment tool.
Generally, restricted shares vest over periods of one to three years from grant date.
Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan The Company also offered its employees, who are chargeable to income tax under Section 15 Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, the opportunity to participate in the Cable & Wireless Communications Share Purchase Plan which is a HMRC-approved share incentive plan.
Under the share purchase plan, employees could contribute up to 1,500 or 10% of salary each tax year whichever is the lower, to buy partnership shares in the Company, and the Company offered a matching award of one share for each partnership share purchased.
From 13 April 2012, the share purchase plan is no longer offered.
The existing shares will remain in the plan until such time as they would ordinarily vest in accordance with plan rules.
The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust The Cable & Wireless Communications Share Ownership Trust the Trust is a discretionary trust, which was funded by loans from Cable & Wireless Limited, a wholly owned Group company, to acquire and hold shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
At 31 March 2015, the Trust held 9,140,970 shares in Cable & Wireless Communications Plc of which 754,029 are shares awarded to the Executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan and which carry dividend rights with a market value of US$9 million.
Share awards The equity instruments granted during the year can be summarised as follows: Awards of Awards of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Cable & Wireless Communications Plc shares granted during 2014 15 shares granted during 2013 14 Weighted Weighted average Features average Features fair value incorporated fair value incorporated Award Shares pence share in schemes Shares pence share in schemes Restricted shares 12,990,348 60 1,472,110 43 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares Performance shares May 2013 9,327,338 28 TSR conditions TSR conditions and non-market Performance shares M ay 2014, June 2014 performance and July 2014 15,209,991 53 measures Non-market Performance shares D ecember 2013 and performance January 2014 14,110,468 55 measures Only the performance share grants made during 2012 13 and 2011 12 have performance criteria attached.
A fair value exercise was completed for grants made during 2014 15 and 2013 14 using the Monte Carlo method.
Annual Report 2014 15 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.7 Share-based payments continued The Monte Carlo pricing model assumptions used in the pricing of the performance share grants in 2014 15 and 2013 14 were: 2014 15 2013 14 Weighted average share price pence per share 52.80 43.90 Dividend yield 0.0% 0.0% Expected volatility 28.0%-30.3% 32.1% Risk-free interest rates 1.02%-1.25% 0.48% Expected life in years 3.0-3.39 3.0 The total expense during the year related to equity settled share-based payments was US$5 million 2013 14 US$6 million.
A summary of the outstanding share awards at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 are as follows: 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Weighted Weighted average average Number of remaining life Number of remaining life shares rounded to shares rounded to Award outstanding nearest year Outstanding nearest year Restricted shares 13,350,706 3 585,685 1 Restricted shares LTIP 2,198,490 Share purchase plan scheme matching shares 120,556 220,496 Performance shares 43,766,442 2 45,754,681 2 5.8 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies whose results or financial position, in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the figures shown in the Groups financial statements.
Refer to note 3.7 for Joint ventures and associates.
Accounting policy detailed in note 1.2.
1 Ownership of Continuing operations ordinary shares Country of Area of as at 31 March 2015 % incorporation operation Subsidiaries The Bahamas Telecommunications Company Ltd 49 The Bahamas The Bahamas Cable & Wireless Jamaica Ltd 82 Jamaica Jamaica Cable & Wireless Panama, SA 49 Panama Panama Cable & Wireless Barbados Ltd 81 Barbados Barbados Cable and Wireless West Indies Ltd 100 England Caribbean Cable & Wireless Ltd 100 England England Sable International Finance Ltd 100 Cayman England Cable and Wireless International Finance BV 100 Netherlands England Caribbean Columbus International Inc. 100 Barbados Latin America Columbus Communications Trinidad Limited 100 Trinidad and Tobago Trinidad and Tobago Columbus Communications Jamaica Limited 100 Jamaica Jamaica Caribbean Columbus Networks Limited 100 Barbados Latin America Joint ventures and associates Cable & Wireless Trade Mark Management Ltd 50 England N A 156 Cable & Wireless Communications Full details of all subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates will be attached to the Companys next annual return, to be filed with the Registrar of Companies in England and Wales.
The following table summarises the information relating to each of the Groups subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests NCI : before any intra-group eliminations: Other 1 2 3 Continuing operations Panama The Bahamas Jamaica Barbados subsidiaries Total as at 31 March 2015 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Ownership interests held by NCI 51% 51% 18% 19% 20-30% Revenue 636 348 190 154 85 Profit loss 108 53 66 20 7 Other comprehensive income loss 1 9 2 Total comprehensive income loss 109 53 57 22 7 Profit loss attributable to NCI 55 27 12 4 2 68 Total comprehensive income loss attributable to NCI 55 27 10 4 2 70 Non-current assets 714 364 189 138 101 Current assets 212 120 73 48 29 Non-current liabilities 310 6 443 38 5 Current liabilities 258 129 94 115 25 Net assets liabilities 358 349 275 33 100 Net assets liabilities attributable to NCI 183 178 50 6 23 340 Cash flows from operating activities 223 107 18 64 16 Cash flows from investing activities 124 74 67 64 7 Cash flows from financing activities 101 46 9 1 3 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 2 13 40 1 6 Dividends paid to NCI during the year 63 22 1 86 1 The Company holds 49% of the share capital but regards CWP as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 The Bahamas Government holds 49% non-controlling interests in BTC.
On 24 July 2014, the Company completed the transfer of share capital from our holding, representing 2% of the total issued share capital in BTC, to The BTC Foundation, a charitable trust dedicated to investing in projects for the benefit of Bahamians.
The Company currently holds 49% of the share capital but regards BTC as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
3 Other subsidiaries includes Dominica, Grenada and St Kitts as the NCI for these subsidiaries is not material individually but is material in the aggregate.
Annual Report 2014 15 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section five Other 5.8 Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Continuing Discontinued Other 1 2 3 Panama The Bahamas Jamaica Barbados subsidiaries Macau Total as at 31 March 2014 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Ownership interests held by NCI 51% 49% 18% 19% 20-30% Revenue 576 354 181 157 84 121 Profit loss 103 72 34 25 6 25 Other comprehensive income loss 3 17 1 3 Total comprehensive income loss 103 75 17 26 3 25 Profit loss attributable to NCI 53 35 6 5 2 13 92 Total comprehensive income loss attributable to NCI 53 36 3 5 1 12 94 Non-current assets 662 339 159 159 95 Current assets 221 123 67 40 25 Non-current liabilities 288 5 364 44 5 Current liabilities 222 116 80 102 22 Net assets liabilities 373 341 218 53 93 Net assets liabilities attributable to NCI 190 167 39 10 22 350 Cash flows from operating activities 226 104 27 15 22 Cash flows from investing activities 179 50 34 32 5 Cash flows from financing activities 56 58 59 25 17 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 9 4 2 8 34 Dividends paid to NCI during the year 44 30 2 76 1 The Company currently holds 49% of the share capital but regards CWP as a subsidiary because it controls the majority of the Board of Directors through a shareholders agreement.
2 Other subsidiaries includes Dominica, Grenada and St Kitts as the NCI for these subsidiaries is not material individually but is material in the aggregate.
3 Macau was disposed of on 20 June 2013.
5.9 Events after the reporting period Where the Group receives information in the period between 31 March 2015 and the date of this report about conditions related to certain events that existed at the year end, we update our disclosures that relate to these conditions in light of the new information.
Such events can be categorised as adjusted or non-adjusting depending on whether the conditions existed at 31 March 2015.
If non-adjusting events after the year end are material, non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements.
Accordingly, for each material category of non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose in this section the nature of the event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made.
The acquisition of Columbus by the Company constituted a change of control of Columbus for the purposes of the US$1,250 million 7.375% Notes the Columbus Notes.
The Columbus Notes indenture includes a change of control provision requiring Columbus to make an offer to the holders of the Columbus Notes to purchase the Columbus Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and related fees.
This offer was launched on 31 March 2015 and expired on 28 April 2015.
None of the Columbus Notes were tendered.
1 Accounts approval There have been no events affecting the Group since 31 March 2015 which need to be reflected in the 2014 15 financial statements.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2015 and authorised for issue.
