Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section one Basis of preparation 1.1 General information Cable & Wireless Communications Plc the Company or the Parent Company and its subsidiaries together Cable & Wireless Communications Group or the Group is an international telecommunications company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Following the disposal of Monaco and the reclassification of Seychelles, the Group has modified its operating segments.
Accordingly, the Group operated under four segments being Panama, LIME, BTC and Seychelles for the year ended 31 March 2015 see note 2.2 for further detail.
On 31 March 2015 the Group acquired control of Columbus International Inc. see note 3.11.1 for further detail which is expected to further modify the Groups segmental analysis in future periods.
1 The Company The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its registered office is 2nd Floor, 63-65 Chandos Place, London WC2N 4HG.
1.2 Basis of preparation and recent accounting changes 1.2.
1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Cable & Wireless Communications Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2015.
These consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars US$ and rounded to the nearest million.
They have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments held at fair value.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The Directors have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis see page 58 of the Directors and corporate governance report for further detail.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered to be reasonable under the circumstances.
They form the basis of judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on a continuing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Critical judgements and areas where the use of estimates is significant are discussed in note 5.2.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries and include the Groups share of the results and net assets of its joint ventures and associates.
The results of the Groups main trading subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates have been prepared to align with the Groups reporting date.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by and forming part of the Group.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to variable returns from its investment with the entity and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively takes control until the date that control ceases.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are aligned with the policies adopted by the Group to ensure consistency.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for an acquisition is the fair value of the assets transferred, and liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred over the fair value 100 Cable & Wireless Communications of net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based on judgement and the Directors have 12 months from the date of the business combination to finalise the allocation of the purchase price.
The allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets and indefinite lived assets affects the results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures and associates A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised through profit or loss.
Its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture and or associate exceeds its investment including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
2 Application of recently issued International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group applied for the first time the following new standards and amendments to IFRS during the year ended 31 March 2015.
The nature and impact of each new standard and amendment is described below: Title Effective date Description and impact on the Group IFRS 10 Consolidated Annual periods beginning on or after IFRS 10 Builds on existing principles of control and provides financial statements, 1 January 2014 further guidance where control may be difficult to assess.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements IFRS 11 expands on the assessment of joint arrangements to and IFRS 12 Disclosures of consider all facts and circumstances surrounding the interests in other entities arrangements in addition to the structure of the arrangement as previously required.
There was no impact on the Group from adopting IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
IFRS 12 requires disclosures for all forms of interests in other entities.
Disclosures required by IFRS 12 are included in notes 3.7 and 5.8.
Amendments to IAS 27 Annual periods beginning on or after Covers all disclosure requirements for financial statements Separate financial 1 January 2014 prepared by a parent, or an investor in a joint venture or statements associate, where those investments are accounted for at cost or in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
Amendments to IAS 32 Annual periods beginning on or after Provides clarifications on the application of offsetting of Financial statements: 1 January 2014 assets and liabilities.
presentation This does not have an impact on the Group.
Amendments to IAS 36 Annual periods beginning on or after Reverses the unintended requirement in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements to disclose the recoverable amount of Recoverable amount 1 January 2014 every cash-generating unit to which significant goodwill or disclosures for indefinite-lived intangible assets have been allocated.
The non-financial assets recoverable amount is required to be disclosed only when an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed.
Amendments to IAS 39 Annual periods beginning on or after Allows hedge accounting to continue in a situation where a derivative is novated.
Financial instruments: 1 January 2014 recognition and This does not have an impact on the Group.
measurement There was no material impact on the Group upon adoption of any of these new IFRS standards and amendments.
Annual Report 2014 15 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 Section one Basis of preparation 1.2 Basis of preparation and recent accounting changes continued New and amended standards and interpretations not endorsed by the EU, to be adopted by the Group in subsequent periods: Title Effective date Description and impact on the Group Amendment to IFRS 8 Annual periods beginning on or after Requires an entity to disclose the judgements made by Operating 1 July 2014 and EU endorsed management in applying the aggregation criteria to segments operating segments.
This does not have an impact on the Group as there are no operating segments aggregated.
Amendment to IAS 16 Annual periods beginning on or after Clarifies when an item of property, plant and equipment Property, plant 1 July 2014 or intangible asset requires restatement of accumulated and equipment and IAS 38 depreciation or amortisation on revaluation.
Intangible Assets This does not have an impact on the Group as the Group does not have a revaluation policy.
Amendment to IAS 19 Annual periods beginning on or after Amended the requirements for contributions from Defined Benefit 1 July 2014 and EU endorsed employees or third parties that are linked to services.
Plans: Employee This should not have an impact on the Group as there are Contributions no contributions from employees or third parties linked to services.
Clarification of Acceptable Annual periods beginning on or after The amendments introduce a rebuttable presumption that Methods of Depreciation 1 January 2016 the use of revenue-based amortisation methods for and Amortisation intangible assets is inappropriate.
This presumption can be Amendments to IAS 16 overcome only when revenue and the consumption of the and IAS 38 economic benefits of the intangible asset are highly correlated, or when the intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue.
While this is not an outright ban, it creates a high hurdle for when these methods may be used for intangible assets.
The amendments also ban the use of revenue-based amortisation for property, plant and equipment.
This does not have an impact on the Group as the Group does not use revenue-based amortisation or depreciation.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Annual periods beginning on or after Establishes a comprehensive framework for determining contracts with customers 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaces IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The Group is still assessing the impact of IFRS 15 but the new standard could have significant impact on customer acquisition costs and large Managed Services contracts.
IFRS 9 Financial Annual periods beginning on or after Revises the existing accounting concerning classification and Instruments 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted measurement, impairment introducing an expected-loss method, hedge accounting, and on the treatment of gains arising from the impact of credit risk on the measurement of liabilities held at fair value.
This is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups net results or net assets, although the full impact will be subject to further assessment.
There are no other new or amended standards that are considered to have a material impact on the Group.
