Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Goodwill Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to Cash-Generating Units CGUs, for impairment testing purposes, on the basis of the expected benefit that will accrue to the individual CGU through synergies realised from the acquisition and integration with the Group as a whole.
These represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill can be allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis.
Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to groups of Cash-Generating Units Balance IT & Secure of nonInsurance Life & Pension Customer Software Information Property Workplace significant Services Financial Services Management Services Solutions Services Services CGUs Total m Services m m m m m m m m 2015 Goodwill 77.1 139.6 184.4 110.1 317.8 243.1 138.5 189.5 749.4 2,149.5 2014 Goodwill 230.8 93.3 184.4 105.9 280.5 221.8 117.1 172.5 673.5 2,079.8 Disclosed above are the significant groups of CGUs identified, with the remaining CGUs included in the non-significant balance column.
The nonsignificant CGUs included within the balance do not individually exceed 5% of the Groups total goodwill balance.
During the year 49.4m of Insurance Services goodwill was written-off on disposal of a specialist insurance business.
An additional 82.9m of goodwill has been written-off on transfer to assets held for sale in respect of a further specialist insurance business, a health business and a justice business.
Refer to note 4 for further detail.
The Groups insurance business has historically been the most sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions in calculating its value in use and thus its carrying value on the Groups balance sheet.
Having reviewed the business, the assumptions, and in light of disposals made and to be made, it was determined that goodwill exceeded the value that was recoverable through use and consequently an additional impairment of 28.3m has been recorded.
The markets in which the Group operate and the services which we provide are discussed in Generating profitable and sustainable growth starting on page 18 and Divisional Performance starting on page 39.
The key drivers are commonplace across these markets: the need to drive efficiencies and to deliver more for less as well as changes in technology that can be fostered to achieve these goals as well as regulatory change.
The impairment test is completed through a 3-stage process: the net assets of each CGU are identified, and allocated, including the goodwill above: the key assumptions are identified, which are used to determine the recoverable amount per CGU to be measured against the net assets: and the final stage is to identify any shortfall, where the carrying value of net assets falls below the recoverable amount determined through the value in use calculation this would then be disclosed as an impairment of that CGU in the income statement.
The calculation of the recoverable amount is based on a value in use calculation, i. e. how much cash will be generated over the life of the asset net of any capital expenditure needed to maintain and grow those cash flows.
This recoverable amount is established using a number of key assumptions which drive the result.
The starting point is the identification of the cash flows per CGU based on the latest 1 year budget forecast approved by senior management.
The budget is a result of a bottom-up business planning process which identifies each of a number of factors that lead to what is expected to be a challenging but achievable forecast.
The major factors considered per CGU are: continuation of past performance: is the market in which the CGU operates experiencing change or further competitive pressures: that the route to new sales and renewals is clearly understood: whether management resource is suitable to achieve and deliver the budget: and the efficiency of the cost base and whether it is at the correct level for the business currently and supportive of future growth.
These plans are delivered and presented to the Board for their review and acceptance and are challenged to ensure they are realistic and achievable.
This budget is then extrapolated for a further 4 years, before applying an appropriate long term growth rate to calculate terminal value.
The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate that recognises their CGU specific characteristics and is based on the overall Group Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC.
The major assumptions in this extrapolation are: growth rates applied to the year 1 cash flows: the pre-tax discount rates to be used: and the long-term growth rate used for the terminal value calculation.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Goodwill continued Growth rates The growth rate assumptions are particular to each CGU and are derived from external research across the breadth of our markets which is provided by Ovum, a third party provider.
These projections are reviewed by senior management to ensure that they are in line with their understanding of the markets in which they operate.
Pre-tax discount rates The Group WACC is calculated by weighting the cost of our debt and equity financing in line with the amounts of debt and equity that we use to finance our activities.
We have calculated our post-tax WACC assuming a risk-free rate of 1.76%, a market risk premium of 8.73% and a Beta of 0.79.
These assumptions are based on publicly available sources.
The Groups post-tax WACC of 7.44% 2014: 7.2% has been used as a basis for calculating the discount rate used for each CGU.
This has been done by adjusting the rate, where appropriate, to reflect the risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
The rate adjustment takes into account the relative risks in the business through adjustment to the risk premium and the weighting of the funding levels provided per CGU, whilst retaining a constant cost of debt.
Long-term growth rates The terminal value included in the calculation is based on the Year 5 cash flow and the pre-tax discount rate for the CGU adjusted for a long-term growth factor which is set at an estimate of the long term rate of inflation of 2.3% 2014: 2.3%.
Below is a table setting out the growth and pre-tax discount rates used in the calculations described above.
Third party market growth rates Pre-tax WACC 2015 2014 2015 2014 Insurance Services 5.0% 4.4% 10.0% 9.6% Financial Services 3.8% 3.4% 7.9% 7.9% Life & Pensions Services 5.0% 5.4% 11.8% 9.6% Customer Management 4.2% 3.8% 7.6% 8.4% IT & Software Services 3.0% 3.1% 8.3% 9.0% Secure Information Solutions 5.8% 4.6% 7.7% 9.5% Property Services 2.9% 2.1% 8.9% 10.2% Workplace Services 4.7% 4.6% 9.0% 8.7% Non-significant CGUs Range 2.9% 5.8% Range 2.1% 6.8% Range 7.6% 10.8% Range 7.9% 12.4% Analysis of the Groups past experience of profit growth and external trends supports the use of the third party market growth rates highlighted in the table above.
The Insurance Services and Life & Pensions Services growth rates of 5% are indicative of the markets our remaining activities in these sectors will operate in.
Sensitivity analysis The impairment testing as described is reliant on the accuracy of managements forecasts and the assumptions that underlie them and also on the selection of the discount and growth rates to be applied.
In order to gauge the sensitivity of the result to a change in any one, or combination of the assumptions that underlie the model, a number of scenarios have been run to measure which CGUs are the most susceptible to an impairment should the assumptions used be varied.
The sensitivity analysis on CGU cash flows has been carried out using a 100bps increase in the pre-tax discount rate, a 100bps reduction in growth rates, and a 100bps decrease in CGU year 1 operating margins between 7% and 14% impact on margins depending on CGU.
Our 2014 impairment testing highlighted that the Insurance Services CGU was the most sensitive to a change in the key assumptions.
Following the business exits and impairment described above, the base case headroom for the Insurance Services CGU has increased.
Management believe that there is no reasonably possible change in the underlying assumptions that would result in the Insurance Services CGU becoming further impaired.
Other smaller CGUs, which are not material to the Group, are also sensitive to changes in the assumptions, but movements would be immaterial.
Management continues to monitor closely the performance of all CGUs.
In conclusion, other than disclosed above with regard to some smaller CGUs, management believe there is no reasonably possible change in the underlying assumptions that would result in a CGU becoming impaired and thus recognising an additional impairment charge in the income statement.
