Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 165 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the parent undertaking only has not been presented as provided by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. b Compliance with accounting standards These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The Company has adopted FRS 101 for the first time in these financial statements.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of FRS 101 disclosure exemptions have been taken.
In the transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied IFRS whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities are measured in compliance with FRS 101.
An explanation of how the transition to FRS 101 has affected the reported financial position of the Company is provided in note 18.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU EU-IFRS and are on pages 106 to 156 of this report.
In these Company financial statements, the following disclosure exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: A Cash Flow Statement and related notes: Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets, and intangible assets: Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries: The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: An additional balance sheet for the beginning of the earliest comparative period following the retrospective change in accounting policy: Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel.
As the consolidated financial statements include equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the disclosure exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: Certain disclosures required by IFRS 2 Share Based Payments in respect of group settled share based payments: Certain disclosures required by IAS 36 Impairments of assets in respect of the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: Certain disclosures required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of business combinations undertaken by the Company in the prior periods: Disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
c Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned, as follows: Computer equipment 3 to 10 years Furniture, fixtures and equipment 4 to 5 years Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease d Intangible assets Intangible assets are valued at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful life of 3 to 15 years.
In the case of capitalised software development costs, research expenditure is written off to the statement of profit and loss in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the same way unless and until the Company is satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial viability of individual projects.
Where this condition is satisfied, the development expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the period during which the Group is expected to benefit.
e Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The carrying values of fixed asset investments are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values may not be recoverable.
f Pension schemes The Company maintains a number of contracted-out defined contribution schemes and contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which they are due.
These schemes are funded and the payment of contributions is made to separately administered trust funds.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from the Company.
The Company remits monthly pension contributions to Capita Business Services Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, which pays the Group liability centrally.
Any unpaid contributions at the year end have been accrued in the accounts of that company.
The Company also has employees who are members of defined benefit schemes operated by the Group.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated group policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the plan to participating entities, the net defined benefit cost of the pension plan is recognised fully by the sponsoring employer.
The Company then recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the period.
The contributions payable by the participating entities are determined on the following basis: The Capita Pension & Life Assurance Scheme the Capita DB Scheme provides benefits on a defined benefit basis funded from assets held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 166 Notes to the accounts continued 1 Accounting policies continued The Capita DB Scheme is a non-segregated scheme but there are around 200 different sections in the Scheme where each section provides benefits on a particular basis some based on final salary, some based on career average earnings to particular groups of employees.
Of these sections around 80 include members currently accruing benefits.
At each funding assessment of the Capita DB scheme carried out triennially the contribution rates for those sections containing active members are calculated.
These are then rationalised such that sections with similar employer contribution rates when expressed as a percentage of pensionable pay are grouped together and an average employer contribution rate for each of the rationalised groups calculated.
The Companys contribution is consequently calculated by applying the appropriate average employer contribution rates to the pensionable pay of its employees participating in the scheme.
Following the most recent funding assessment of the Capita DB Scheme which was carried out as at 31 March 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to make additional contributions to the Capita DB Scheme over a period of time until 2027.
The next scheme funding assessment will be carried out with an effective date of 31 March 2017. g Leasing commitments Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic lives.
The finance charges under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals due under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
h Deferred taxation Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary timing differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible differences and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised, except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary differences arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
i Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or if appropriate at the forward contract rate.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, which are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying amount of the related investments.
j National Insurance on share option gains National Insurance on outstanding share options at the year-end has been grossed up and shown as a provision and a receivable on the balance sheet.
k Financial instruments: disclosure and presentation A separate note dealing with the disclosures of IFRS 7 has been included in the consolidated financial statements on pages 139 to 147. l Derivative financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts to hedge risks associated with interest and exchange rate fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair values of interest rate swaps and foreign currency contracts are determined by reference to market rates for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
In relation to fair value hedges e. g. fixed to floating interest rate swaps held as fair value hedges against fixed interest rate borrowings which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and recognised in the profit and loss account.
