Glossary BPS EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV Basis point is a unit equal to one hundredth of a percentage point.
The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of the fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the BREEAM fair value of financial instruments, deferred tax on revaluations Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable Method assesses the sustainability of buildings against a under employee share schemes divided by the diluted number range of criteria.
Capco EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also EPRA diluted NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivative referred to as the Company or the Parent and all its financial instruments, excess fair value of debt over carrying value subsidiaries and group undertakings, collectively referred and deferred tax on derivative financial instruments, revaluations to as the Group.
CDM EPRA adjusted earnings per share Construction Design and Management Regulations.
Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation and sale of investment and development property, write down CGAT of trading property, changes in fair value of derivative financial Covent Garden Area Trust.
instruments and associated close-out costs and the related tax on CLSA these items divided by the weighted average number of shares in Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with issue during the year.
LBHF relating to its land in the ECOA.
Estimated rental value ERV CRC The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the Carbon Reduction Commitment.
open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent CSOP review of the property.
ESOS Diluted figures Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme.
Reported amounts adjusted to include the dilutive effects of potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
Earls Court The London district made up of a series of residential GLA neighbourhoods crossing the boundaries of LBHF and RBKC.
Earls Court Masterplan Gross income The Earls Court Masterplan, created by Sir Terry Farrell and The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
Partners is the consented scheme for the transformation of ECOA.
FBS The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and The Royal Fulham Boys School.
Borough of Kensington and Chelsea formerly granted outline planning permission for the Earls Court Masterplan on 14 FTSE 350 Real Estate Index November 2013.
London Stock Exchange index derived from real estate companies in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 indices.
Earls Court Properties The Groups interests in the Earls Court area, comprising Headline earnings properties held in ECPL, Lillie Square a 50:50 joint venture Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance with partnership with the Kwok Family Interests, the Empress State Circular 2 2015 issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Building and a number of smaller properties in the Earls Court Accountants SAICA, a requirement of the Groups JSE listing.
This measure is not a requirement of IFRS.
ECPL HMRC Earls Court Partnership Limited is the investment vehicle with TfL.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
The Group holds 63 per cent controlling interest and TfL holds 37 per cent.
ECPL holds interests in EC1 & EC2 and other adjacent Initial yield EPRA property primarily located on and around Lillie Road.
Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and EBITDA empty rates on investment and development property expressed Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
as a percentage of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net EC1 & EC2 initial yield.
The site formerly the location of the Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 Exhibition Centres.
IPD Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent ECOA benchmark of property returns.
The Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
JSE EPRA Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best Practice Recommendations intended to make financial Kwok Family Interests KFI statements of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, Joint venture partner in the Lillie Square development.
148 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LBHF RBKC The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
The Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea.
LIBOR REIT London Interbank Offered Rate.
Like-for-like property RICS Property which has been owned throughout both years without Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
significant capital expenditure in either year, so income can be RIDDOR compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous Regulations.
balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the prior year.
SARB Loan-to-value LTV South African Reserve Bank.
LTV is calculated on the basis of net debt divided by the value of the Groups property portfolio.
The Group focuses most on an LTV SAICA measure that includes the notional share of joint venture interests South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
but excludes the share of cash, debt and property which is held by Section 106 the Group on behalf of non-controlling interest.
Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, NaCTSO pursuant to which the relevant planning authority can impose National Counter Terrorism Security Office.
planning obligations on a developer to secure contributions to services, infrastructure and amenities in order to support and NAV facilitate a proposed development.
Tenant lease incentives Net Debt Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or NIA a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Net Internal Area.
Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a Net rental income NRI straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Groups share of gross rental income less ground rents, payable service charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having TfL taken due account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to Transport for London and any subsidiary of Transport for comply with International Financial Reporting Standards London including Transport Trading Limited and London regarding tenant lease incentives.
Nominal equivalent yield Total property return TPR Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the rent received less associated costs, including ground rent.
property becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the Total return TR current market level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
The growth in EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV per share NRIL plus dividends per share paid during the year.
Total shareholder return TSR Occupancy rate EPRA The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends paid The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of during the year assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
the ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, Underlying earnings excluding units under development.
Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net Opportunity Area valuation gains losses including profits losses on disposals, In September 2011 the GLA published the Opportunity Area net refinancing charges, costs of termination of derivative financial Planning Frameworks Report.
Opportunity Areas are Londons instruments and non-recurring costs and income.
Underlying major reservoirs of brownfield land with significant capacity to earnings is reported on a proportionally consolidated basis.
accommodate new housing, commercial and other developments Underlying earnings per share EPS linked to existing or potential improvements to public transport Underlying earnings divided by the weighted average number of accessibility.
Typically, they can accommodate at least 5,000 jobs or shares in issue during the year.
2,500 new homes or a combination of the two, along with other supporting facilities and infrastructure.
Weighted average unexpired lease term The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for Passing rent each lease.
The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at the balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting WCC adjustments made in respect of rent-free periods or tenant lease Westminster City Council.
incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as Zone A finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and does A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car parks valuable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of administration are excluded.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A. P. A.
com 149 Shareholder Information Registrars Share dealing services All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, UK shareholders may share certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: trade their shares using the online and telephone dealing service that Capita Asset Services provide.
To use this service, shareholders For shareholders registered in the UK: should contact Capita: within the UK 0371 664 0445 calls are Capita Asset Services charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider: The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm Monday to Friday : from Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your Ireland: 1 890 946 375: or from outside UK: 44 0 371 664 0445 phone companys access charge: lines are open 9.00 am 5.30 pm calls outside the United Kingdom are charged at the applicable Monday Friday international rate or you can log on to www.
Telephone outside UK: 44 0 208 639 3399 Email: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com Capco has adopted electronic communications.
This means that shareholders will receive documents from the Company For shareholders registered in South Africa: electronically unless they elect to receive hard copies.
Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited All of the Groups annual results, interim results and interim 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 management statements will be published on the Companys South Africa website www.
If you are a shareholder Postal address: who receives hard copies of documents and you wish to elect PO Box 61051 to receive electronic communications, please contact the Marshalltown 2107, South Africa appropriate Registrar.
com Shareholders may revoke an election to receive electronic communications at any time.
Payment of dividends If you are a shareholder and wish to have your dividends paid ShareGift directly into a bank or building society, please complete a ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders mandate form which is available from the appropriate registrar.
who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis.
Share price information Further information can be found on its website www.
org The latest information on the Capital & Counties Properties PLC or by calling them on 020 7930 3737. share price is available on the Companys website www.
Strate Charity Shares SCS SCS is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who The shares are traded on the LSE with LSE code CAPC, may wish to dispose of small holdings of shares that are too costly ISIN GBOOB62G9D36.
The shares are traded on the JSE under to sell via a stock broker on a commission basis.
Further the abbreviated name CAPCO and JSE code CCO.
information can be found at http: www.
co. za, by emailing Web-based enquiry service for shareholders charityshares@computershare.
co. za or by calling 0800 202 363 or Shareholders registered in the UK can register at 27 0 11 870 8207 if you are phoning from outside South Africa.
com to access a range of online Investment scams services including: Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited calls, mail Online proxy voting or email that offer free advice, the opportunity to buy shares at a discount or to provide free company reports.
Such approaches are Electing to receive shareholder communications electronically often investment scams.
Information on how to protect yourself Viewing your holding balance, indicative share price from investment scams can be found at www.
uk scams and valuation or by calling the FCAs consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Viewing transactions on your holding including any dividend payments you have received Updating your address details or registering a mandate to have your dividends paid directly to your bank account Accessing a wide range of shareholder information, including downloadable forms To register to use this service, you will need your investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate s. 150 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 www.
com 151 152 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certied paper.
This Report includes statements that are forward-looking Park is an EMAS certied company and its Environmental in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and Management System is certied to ISO14001.
100% of the inks unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Capital for further use and, on average 99% ofanywaste associated with & Counties Properties PLC to be materially different from any this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied Heaven 42 and Munken Polar: both papers contain 100% virgin by such forward-looking statements.
Any information contained bre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certied in this Report on the price at which shares or other securities in forests.
The pulp is bleached using both elemental chlorine free Capital & Counties PropertiesPLC have been bought or sold in ECF and totally chlorine free TCF processes.
the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com not be relied upon asaguideto future performance.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC 15 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QZ Telephone 44 0 20 3214 9150 feedback@capitalandcounties.
