Shareholder information Dividends Share dealing service Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone in respect of the year to 31 December 2015 will be payable on 10 June and internet share dealing service operated by Equiniti.
For telephone 2016 to those shareholders on the register on 13 May 2016. purchases and sales call 0345 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, or log on to www.
For the A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
sale of shares, you will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into your Multiple accounts on the shareholder register bank or building society account.
This service has a number of benefits: If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account it eliminates the chances of your dividend cheque being lost in the in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your postal system name or your address appear on each account in a slightly different the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid way.
If you think this might be the case and would like to combine your directly into your account on the payment date without the need to accounts, please contact Equiniti.
wait for the cheque to clear: and you will help Carillion in reducing its environmental footprint and Shareview electronic communications improve its efficiency by reducing printing and cheque clearing costs.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to organise If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the number your investments electronically.
You can also notify Equiniti of a change detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
of address or a change to dividend mandate instructions.
You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and Results free as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to Half year to 30 June 2016: announced August 2016. www.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
Full year to 31 December 2016: announced March 2017.
Electronic proxy appointments Shareholder enquiries For the AGM to be held on 4 May 2016, you may, if you wish, register Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have any the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details change, www.
please contact Equiniti: You will need your voting reference numbers the three eight-digit Equiniti numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have Aspect House registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at Lancing www.
co. uk and click on the link vote under your Carillion West Sussex plc details, then follow the on-screen directions.
BN99 6DA Please note that any electronic communication that is found to contain Telephone 0371 384 2522 a computer virus will not be accepted.
Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0371 384 2255 Non-UK callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047.
ShareGift Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on their own, Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK can be donated to ShareGift the share donation charity Registered public holidays.
ShareGift transfers these holdings into their name, aggregates them, and uses the proceeds to support a wide range of UK registered charities based on donor suggestion.
They can also accept larger donations of shares.
If you would like further details about ShareGift, please visit www.
Warning to shareholders boiler room scam Carillion is aware that shareholders have received unsolicited check that they are an authorised firm with the Financial Conduct telephone calls from fraudulent organisations offering to buy Carillion Authority FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or by visiting plc shares at a substantial premium to the prevailing market price.
uk register and contact the firm using the details These operations are commonly known as boiler room scams on the register: and the brokers who call shareholders can be extremely persuasive report the matter to the FCA by calling 0800 111 6768 or by visiting and persistent.
uk consumers: if the calls persist, hang up.
Boiler room scams usually come out of the blue, with most fraudsters cold-calling investors after taking their details from publicly available Please be aware that fraudsters will often use the name of a legitimate shareholder lists, but the high-pressure sales tactics can also come organisation or organisations, sometimes in combination with others by other means such as email or post.
The scam is designed to sound so that the organisation may sound familiar to you.
They may have attractive, but typically at some point in the process the perpetrator also created a scam website, so simply checking that an organisation usually asks for money in advance of concluding the main transaction, appears to have a presence on the web is not a guarantee that you for example by way of a pre-payment or vendor bond.
The transaction are dealing with a legitimate organisation.
is never concluded, and the shareholder loses the money.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to If you receive an unsolicited investment approach you should: receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you confirm the correct names of the person calling and the organisation should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. they represent: Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 130
