S TRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 183 183 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE DIRECTORS OF CENTRICA PLC AND ITS LICENSEES We have audited the accompanying statement the Consolidated Segmental Statement or CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees as i listed in footnote as at 31 December 2015 in accordance with the terms of our agreement dated 27 January 2016.
The CSS has been prepared by the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees together the Directors based on the requirements of Ofgems Standard Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences and Standard Condition 16B of the Electricity Generation Licences together, the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 188 to 191.
Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the CSS in accordance with the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 188 to 191 and for maintaining the underlying accounting records and such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the CSS that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the CSS based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the CSS is free from material misstatement.
The materiality level that we used in planning and performing our audit is set at 30 million for each of the segments.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the CSS.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the CSS, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation of the CSS in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the CSS.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the attached CSS of Centrica plc and its Licensees for the year ended 31 December 2015 is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with: i the requirements of Ofgems Standard Condition 19A of the Gas and Electricity Supply Licences and Standard Condition 16B of the Electricity Generation Licences established by the Regulator Ofgem: and ii the basis of preparation on pages 188 to 191.
Basis of accounting and restriction on distribution Without modifying our opinion, we draw attention to pages 188 to 191 of the CSS, which describes the basis of preparation.
The CSS is prepared in order for Centrica plc and its Licensees to meet the Licence requirements of the Regulator Ofgem rather than in accordance with a generally accepted accounting framework.
The CSS should therefore be read in conjunction with both the Licences and the basis of preparation on pages 188 to 191.
This basis of preparation is not the same as segmental reporting under IFRS and or statutory reporting.
As a result, the schedule may not be suitable for another purpose.
This report, including our opinion, has been prepared solely for the Boards of Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting on the CSS to the Regulator Ofgem.
We permit this report to be disclosed in the Financial Statements section of the Annual Report and Accounts of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 ii and the Financial Statements section of their website www.
com prelims2015, to enable the Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the CSS.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body and Centrica plc and its Licensees for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
 LLP London 18 February 2016 i British Gas Trading Limited, Centrica Langage Limited, Centrica SHB Limited, Centrica Brigg Limited, Centrica Barry Limited, Centrica KPS Limited, Centrica RPS Limited, Centrica PB Limited and Centrica KL Limited.
ii The maintenance and integrity of the Centrica plc website is the responsibility of the Directors of Centrica plc: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the CSS since it was initially presented on the website.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 184 F FINANC INANCIIAL S AL ST TA A T T E E M M E EN NTS TS O OFGE FGEM M C CO ONS NS OL OL IDID ATAT EDED SEG SE M GMEN ENTALTA ST L A ST TEM ATE ENMENT T 184 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 184 INTRODUCTION The Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS and required regulatory information on pages 184 to 193 are provided in order Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement to comply with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas Supply Licences.
The CS INTROD S and supp UCTION orting information are prepared by the Directors in accordance with the Segmental Statements Guidelines issued by Ofgem.
The CSS has been derived from and reconciled to the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December The Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement CSS and required regulatory information on pages 184 to 193 are provided in order 2015 which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union to comply with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.
Centrica plc operational reporting structure Below is a summary of the Centrica plc Groups Group operational reporting structure.
The CSS financial data has been extracted from The CSS and supporting information are prepared by the Directors in accordance with the Segmental Statements Guidelines issued by the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 operating segments rather than with reference to specific legal entities.
The CSS has been derived from and reconciled to the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December activities included in the Groups operating segments have been excluded from the Generation and Supply segments of the CSS on the 2015 which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union basis they are non-licensed activities eg Midstream Power and Business Services as illustrated below.
However, to aid transparency, the EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006.
Midstream Power result has been voluntarily included in the CSS.
The Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides operating Centrica plc operational reporting structure segment results for British Gas Residential energy supply, British Gas Business energy supply and services and Centrica Energy Below is a summary of the Centrica plc Groups Group operational reporting structure.
The CSS financial data has been extracted from Power in note 4.
A full reconciliation between these results and those disclosed for Domestic Supply, Non-Domestic Supply and the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 operating segments rather than with reference to specific legal entities.
Certain Generation in this CSS is provided at the end of the report.
activities included in the Groups operating segments have been excluded from the Generation and Supply segments of the CSS on the basis they are non-licensed activities eg Midstream Power and Business Services as illustrated below.
However, to aid transparency, the Ofgem reporting structure Midstream Power result has been voluntarily included in the CSS.
The Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides operating segment results for British Gas Residential energy supply, British Gas Business energy supply and services and Centrica Energy Centrica plc Power in note 4.
A full reconciliation between these results and those disclosed for Domestic Supply, Non-Domestic Supply and Generation in this CSS is provided at the end of the report.
Segments British Gas Bord Gis Energy Centrica Energy Centrica Storage Direct Energy Business Operating Residential Residential energy supply Power Gas segments energy supply services & services Activities Domestic Non-domestic included Generation supply supply in CSS Activities Midstream voluntarily Power Centrica plc is the ultimate parent company of all 100% owned licensees.
The individual supply and generation licences are held in legal included in CSS entities whose licensed activities are reported as part of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 within the operating segments Activities shown above.
The individual supply anB d gene usiness ration licences held in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates of Centrica plc during 2015 excluded Services are detailed below: from CSS Licensee Licence Ownership British Gas Trading Limited Supply 100% Centrica plc is the ultimate parent company of all 100% owned licensees.
The individual supply and generation licences are held in legal Centrica Langage Limited Generation 100% entities whose licensed activities are reported as part of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 within the operating segments Centrica SHB Limited Generation 100% shown above.
The individual supply and generation licences held in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates of Centrica plc during 2015 i Centrica Brigg Limited are detailed below: Generation 100% Centrica Barry Limited Generation 100% Licensee Licence Ownership Centric British Gas Tra a KPS Limited ding Limited Gener Supply a tion 100% 100% i Centrica RPS Limited Centrica Langage Limited Gener Genera ation tion 100% 100% Centric Centrica a SHB Limited PB Limited Gener Genera ation tion 100% 100% i Centrica Brigg Limited Centrica KL Limited Gener Generaattion ion 1100% 00% Centric Lincs Wind a Ba Farm rry Limited Limited Ge Gener nera ation tion 50% Joint ventu 100% re Centric Glens of Foud a KPS Limited land Wind Farm Limited Exemp Generattion 50% Joint ventu 100% re i Centrica RPS Limited Lynn Wind Farm Limited ExempGenerattion 50% Joint ventu100% re Inner Dowsing Centrica PB Limited Wind Farm Limit ed Exemp Generattion 50% Joint ventu 100% re ii EDF Energy Nuc Centrica KL Limitlear Gen ed eration Limited Generation Generation 1 20% A 00% ssociate Lincs Wind Farm Limited Generation 50% Joint venture i Brigg and Roosecotes licences were revoked on 2 July 2015 at their request because they no longer require an electricity generation licence.
ii The Centrica plc Group holds a 20% investment in Lake Acquisitions Limited which indirectly owns 100% of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited.
Glens of Foudland Wind Farm Limited Exempt 50% Joint venture Lynn Wind Farm Limited Exempt 50% Joint venture Inner Dowsing Wind Farm Limited Exempt 50% Joint venture ii EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited Generation 20% Associate i Brigg and Roosecotes licences were revoked on 2 July 2015 at their request because they no longer require an electricity generation licence.
ii Midstream Power includes results from non-licensed activities related to power trading and bilateral arrangements with third-party owners of power generation assets in the UK and Europe included in the Centrica Energy Power segment as defined in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 note 4. iii Included within Nuclear indirect costs is a one-off pension credit of 18.7 million.
iv The 2014 Nuclear segment EBIT excludes 58 million of depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment acquired in the Strategic Investment of Lake Acquisitions Limited: the 2015 depreciation figures reflect the Boards decision to include this in the definition of adjusted operating profit 57 million.
v As the Langage, Humber and Killingholme power stations were reported as assets held for sale for the period 8 May 2014 to 31 December 2014 no depreciation has been charged on these stations during this period.
The 2014 Thermal segment EBIT would have been reduced by 39.0 million had depreciation been charged.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 186 F FINANC INANCIIAL S AL ST TA A T T E E M M E EN NTS TS O O FG FG EE M M C C OO NS NO SL O ID LI A D TA ED TE S D EG SE M G EN MT E A N LT S AT L A T SE TM AT EN EME T NT 186 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement OFGEM CONSOLIDATED SEGMENTAL STATEMENT Glossary of terms WACOF E G is weighted average cost of fuel nuclear, electricity supply and gas thermal and supply calculated by dividing direct fuel costs by volumes.
For the Thermal sub-segment the cost of carbon emissions is added to direct fuel costs before dividing by the generated volume.
EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, and is calculated by subtracting total operating costs from revenue.
DA is depreciation and amortisation.
EBIT is earnings before interest and tax, and is calculated by subtracting total operating costs, depreciation and amortisation from total revenue.
Supply EBIT margin is a profit margin expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing EBIT by total revenue and multiplying by 100 for the Supply segment.
Supply PAT is profit after tax but before interest and is calculated by subtracting Group adjusted tax from EBIT for the Supply segment.
Supply PAT margin is a profit margin expressed as a percentage and calculated by dividing Supply PAT by total revenue and multiplying by 100 for the Supply segment.
Volume for Supply is supplier volumes at the meter point ie net of losses : Generation volume is the volume of power that can actually be sold in the wholesale market ie generation volumes after losses up to the point where power is received under the Balancing and Settlement Code but before subsequent losses.
Average customer numbers sites are calculated by adding average monthly customer numbers sites as defined in the basis of preparation and dividing by 12.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S TRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 187 187 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement BUSINESS FUNCTIONS TABLE i Year ended 31 December 2015 analysis of business functions The table below illustrates where the business functions reside.
Generation Supply Another part of business Operates and maintains generation assets Responsible for scheduling decisions Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market Responsible for determining hedging policy output demand Responsible for implementing hedging policy makes decision to buy and sell energy output demand Interacts with wider market participants to buy sell energy bilateral market and market and ii bilateral bilateral ii Holds unhedged positions either short or long Procures fuel for generation Procures allowances for generation Holds volume risk on positions sold either internal or external iii ii iii Matches own generation with own supply Forecasts total system demand iv iv iv Forecasts wholesale price Forecasts customer demand Determines retail pricing and marketing strategies Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge Bears short-term risk for variance between demand and forecast i The table reflects the business functions that impact our UK segments.
ii The Groups Supply and Generation businesses are separately managed.
Both businesses independently enter into commodity purchases and sales with the market via Centrica Energy Limited CEL, our market-facing legal entity.
CEL forms part of our non-licensed Midstream Power function and also conducts trading for the purpose of making profits in its own right.
The Supply segment is also able to enter into market trades directly as part of its within day balancing activities as well as external bilateral contracts.
iii There are a small number of bilateral off-take contracts between wind farm joint ventures and Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply segments.
Other than this small number of bilateral contracts, Matches own generation with own supply is undertaken in Another part of the business by CEL at market referenced prices, outside of the Generation and Supply segments.
iv A separate team forecasts the wholesale price for the benefit and use of the entire Group.
This team does not formally reside in any particular segment but their costs are recharged across the Group.
Key: Function resides and profit loss recorded in segment.
Neither function nor profit loss reside in segment.
Glossary of terms Scheduling decisions means the decision to run individual generation units.
Responsible for interactions with the Balancing Market means interactions with the Balancing Mechanism in electricity.
Interacts with wider market participants to buy sell energy means the business unit is responsible for interacting with wider market participants to buy sell energy, not the entity responsible for the buy sell decision itself, which falls under Responsible for implementing hedging policy makes decisions to buy sell energy.
Matches own generation with own supply means where there is some internal matching of generation and supply before either generation or supply interact with the wider market.
Forecasts total system demand means forecasting total system electricity demand or total system gas demand.
Forecasts customer demand means forecasting the total demand of own supply customers.
Bears shape risk after initial hedge until market allows full hedge means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with hedges made before the market allows fully shaped hedging.
Bears short-term risk for variance between demand and forecast means the business unit which bears financial risk associated with too little or too much supply for own customer demand.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 188 F FINANC INANCIIAL S AL ST TA A T T E E M M E EN NTS TS O O FG FG EE M M C C OO NS NO SL O ID LI A D TA ED TE S D EG SE M G EN MT E A N LT S AT L A T SE TM AT EN EME T NT 188 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement BASIS OF PREPARATION The following notes provide a summary of the basis of preparation of the 2015 submission.
The Ofgem CSS segments our Supply and Generation activities and provides a measure of profitability, weighted average cost of fuel, and volumes, in order to increase energy market transparency for consumers and other stakeholders.
These statements have been prepared by the Directors of Centrica plc and its Licensees in accordance with Standard Condition 16B of Electricity Generation Licences and Standard Condition 19A of the Electricity and Gas Supply Licences and the basis of preparation.
Throughout the basis of preparation the first paragraph number relates to the generation licence and the second to the supply licence conditions respectively.
The financial data provided has been taken from the relevant licensees and affiliates financial information for the year ended 31 December 2015, included in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 which has been prepared under IFRS in accordance with paragraph 3 19A.
For the Generation segment, we have included the financial results from all activities that relate to our generation licences.
For clarity the following judgements have been made: Where a sub-segment eg Nuclear, Thermal or Renewables has undertaken trades to optimise the result of their underlying generation, the net revenue and result from these trades has been included in the CSS sub-segment as they are considered to be related to our generation licences.
The Group has a long-term tolling contract in respect of the Spalding power station, but does not specifically hold the generation licence.
This arrangement provides the Group with the right to nominate 100% of the plant capacity in return for a mix of capacity payments and operating payments.
We do not own the power station and the Group does not control the physical dispatch of the asset.
This contractual arrangement has been accounted for as a finance lease under IFRS and therefore the financial result and volume has been included in the Thermal sub-segment, within the Generation segment.
The Group has a 20% equity interest in eight nuclear power stations through its indirect investment in EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited.
Although we do not specifically hold a generation licence for any of the nuclear stations, our gross share of the financial result from this business including any contractual arrangements has been included in the Nuclear sub-segment and hence within the Generation segment.
The Group has equity interests in a number of wind farm joint ventures.
Although we do not specifically hold a generation licence for any of the wind farms owned by these entities, our gross share of the financial result from these businesses including any contractual arrangements has been included in the Renewables sub-segment and hence within the Generation segment.
As a voluntary disclosure, to aid transparency, the Midstream Power trading result including immaterial overseas activities has been reported in a separate column of the CSS Midstream Power.
The Midstream Power result includes trading in physical and financial energy contracts for the purpose of making profits in their own right and other non-licensed activities see below.
This does not form part of either the Generation or Supply segment.
This means our CSS discloses all of the activities that have been included in the Centrica Energy Power segment of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 note 4.
Where power is purchased from third parties eg from wind farms, power stations or other bilateral arrangements and we do not have an equity interest in, or a finance leasing arrangement from an IFRS perspective over the assets that generate this power, the result related to these activities is excluded from the Generation segment but is included in our Midstream Power disclosure.
In all cases, the Generation segment reports direct fuel costs and generation volumes on a consistent basis ie if the purchase cost is a direct fuel cost, then the electricity generated is reported in volume.
Domestic Supply represents the revenue and associated costs in supplying gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK.
Non-Domestic Supply represents the revenue and associated costs in supplying gas and electricity to business customers in the UK.
As a voluntary disclosure, to aid comparability, a summarised 2014 CSS with margins has been included within the report.
Revenues Revenues, costs and profits of the Licensees have been defined below and prepared in compliance with the Groups accounting policies as detailed in notes 2, 3 and S2 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015, except for joint ventures and associates which are presented gross in accordance with paragraph 4 a 19A.
Revenue from sales of electricity and gas for the Supply segment is recognised on the basis of gas and electricity supplied during the period to both domestic and non-domestic customers.
Revenue from sales of electricity and gas includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
For the respective Supply segments this means electricity and gas sales.
Revenue for domestic supply is after deducting dual fuel discounts where applicable, with the discount split evenly between electricity and gas.
Government mandated social tariffs and discounts, such as the Warm Home Discount, and other social discounts, have also been deducted from Domestic Supply revenues directly, charged specifically to each fuel.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S TRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 189 189 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement BASIS OF PREPARATION Revenue from sales of electricity for the Generation segment is recognised on the basis of power supplied during the period.
Power purchases and sales entered into to optimise the performance of each of the power Generation segments are presented net within revenue.
LEC revenues associated with Renewables are included within sales of electricity and gas because the certificates must be sold with the electricity.
Revenue from sales of electricity and gas in Midstream Power relate to the sale of power procured under non-licensed activities power purchasing agreements PPAs and from overseas generation.
No tolling agreements exist between business segments.
The financial risks and rewards of owning and using the Groups power stations reside in the Generation segment.
Other respective segmental revenues not related to the sale of gas or power have been separately disclosed.
Other revenues include: 78.4 million 2014: 91.9 million in Renewables principally relating to the sale of ROCs and services provided to joint ventures: 3.4 million in Non-Domestic Electricity Supply relating to connections and metering installations 2014: 8.3 million : 67.8 million 2014: 35.6 million in Domestic Electricity Supply and 75.8 million 2014: 45.1 million in Domestic Gas Supply primarily relating to New Housing Connections and a variety of new technology investments including smart meter installations: and 32.0 million in Midstream Power predominantly relating to the net result of trading in physical and financial energy contracts both realised settled and unrealised fair valued for the purpose of making profits in their own right, net of broker costs 2014: 45.7 million.
Direct fuel costs Direct fuel costs for both Generation and Supply include electricity, gas, nuclear fuel and imbalance costs.
Energy supply to Domestic and Non-Domestic energy customers is procured at a market referenced price, through a combination of bilateral, OTC and exchange based trades contracts see table below.
Where energy is procured from within the Group it is also at a market referenced price on an OTC basis except for a small number of bilateral off-take contracts between wind farm joint ventures i and the Supply segments.
The market referenced prices used are those prevailing at the time of procurement, which may differ from the price prevailing at the time of supply.
Domestic and Non-Domestic fixed price products are hedged based upon anticipated demand at the start of the contract period.
The majority of the gas and power for Non-Domestic energy and Domestic energy tariff products is purchased in advance see table below.
The exact Domestic and Non-Domestic purchasing patterns vary in response to the outlook for commodity markets and commercial factors.
The Generation segment purchases gas and sells all of its energy at market referenced prices.
Gas for CCGTs is procured at market referenced prices through a combination of OTC and exchange based trades contracts.
The cost to the power stations will reflect market referenced prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing at the time of physical supply.
For the Midstream Power segment, any procurement of gas for overseas generation is reported as part of direct costs and not within direct fuel costs.
How we procure electricity, gas and carbon: Long form bilateral Individually negotiated contracts with non-standardised terms and conditions which may relate to size, duration contracts bilateral or flexibility.
Pricing is predominantly indexed to published market referenced prices, adjusted for transfer of risks, cost of carry and administration.
Over-the-counter OTC Broker supported market of standardised products, predominantly performed via screen-based trading.
These transactions are between two parties, leaving both parties exposed to the others default with no necessary intermediation of any exchange.
An internal OTC price may be provided where market liquidity prevents external trading, with prices that are reflective of market conditions at the time of execution.
Exchange Regulated electronic platform notably ICE, APX, and N2EX where standardised products are traded on exchange through the intermediary of the clearing house which becomes the counterparty to the trade.
Membership of a clearing house is required which entails posting of cash or collateral as margin.
WACOF WACOE WACOG: For Generation this represents the weighted average input cost of gas, carbon and nuclear fuel, shown as MWh, used by the Generation business.
Gas for CCGTs is procured at market referenced prices through a combination of OTC and exchange-based trades contracts.
i Internal power off-take contracts are long-term power and associated renewable certificate sales from Generation owned assets to Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply.
Pricing is indexed to published market prices, adjusted for the transfer of risks specific to the asset.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 190 F FINANC INANCIIAL S AL ST TA A T T E E M M E EN NTS TS O O FG FG EE M M C C OO NS NO SL O ID LI A D TA ED TE S D EG SE M G EN MT E A N LT S AT L A T SE TM AT EN EME T NT 190 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement BASIS OF PREPARATION For Supply this covers the wholesale energy cost, the energy element of  RBD costs and balancing and shaping costs incurred by the Supply licensees.
Again, gas and electricity is procured at market referenced prices through a combination of bilateral, OTC and exchange-based trades contracts.
The cost for the Supply business will reflect market referenced prices at the time of procurement, and so may differ from the price prevailing at the time of physical supply.
Where gas is procured using predominantly indexed bilateral contracts, the fuel cost is then allocated between Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply using annually updated fixed percentages based on the historical split of tariff book volumes.
Gas and Electricity balancing costs are allocated between Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply based on their respective volumes multiplied by an appropriate industry referenced price eg APX or SAP.
For electricity Supply the weighted average cost of electricity is shown as MWh.
For gas Supply, the weighted average cost of gas is shown as p th.
Direct costs Direct costs for Supply and Generation are broken down into network costs, environmental and social obligation costs and other direct costs.
Network costs for Supply and Generation include transportation costs, BSUOS and the transport element of RBD costs.
Supply transportation costs include transportation and LNG costs, including 42.2 million incurred by Gas Domestic Supply in 2015, which enables the segment to secure supply by giving the ability to bring gas into the UK from overseas 2014: 46.1 million.
Environmental and social obligation costs for Domestic Supply include ROCs, FIT and ECO.
Non-Domestic Supply includes the cost of LECs, ROCs and FIT.
Within the Domestic and Non-Domestic segments, the costs of LECs, FIT and ROCs are included within Electricity, and ECO is allocated between Electricity and Gas based on the relevant legislation.
Environmental and social obligation costs for the Generation segment relate to EU ETS carbon emission costs and carbon tax.
Other direct costs for Generation include employee and maintenance costs.
Other direct costs for Supply include brokers costs and sales commissions when the costs have given rise directly to revenue, ie producing a sale.
They also include Elexon and Xoserve market participation and wider Smart metering programme costs.
Other direct costs for Midstream Power principally relate to the costs of purchasing power under other non-licensed activities PPAs and from procuring gas for overseas generation.
Indirect costs Indirect costs for Supply and Generation include operating costs such as sales and marketing, bad debt costs, costs to serve, IT, HR, finance, property, staffing and billing and metering costs including smart meter costs.
Indirect costs for the Generation, Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply segments including corporate and business unit recharges are allocated based on relevant drivers which include turnover, headcount, operating profit, net book value of fixed assets and proportionate use benefit.
For Supply, indirect costs including corporate recharges but excluding bad debt costs are primarily allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of customer numbers Domestic and sites Non-Domestic.
Bad debt costs are allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of actual bad debt cost by individual contract in the billing system Domestic, and on the basis of revenues Non-Domestic.
Indirect costs for Nuclear within the Generation segment include a one off pension credit of 18.7 million 2014: nil.
Indirect costs for Midstream Power relate to employee, IT and property costs.
Other For Supply, depreciation and amortisation is allocated between Electricity and Gas on the basis of customer numbers Domestic and sites Non-Domestic.
For the purposes of Supply PAT, tax is allocated between Gas and Electricity within both Domestic and Non-Domestic Supply based on their relative proportions of EBIT.
Note 4 c of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 provides details of the adjusted operating profit after tax of the British Gas Residential energy supply and British Gas Business energy supply and services operating segments.
For the Domestic Supply segment, customer numbers are stated based on the number of district meter point reference numbers MPRNs and meter point administration numbers MPANs in our billing system for gas and electricity respectively, where it shows an active point of delivery and a meter installation.
As a result, our customer numbers do not include those meter points where a meter may recently have been installed but the associated industry registration process has yet to complete, as the meter information will not be present in our billing system.
For the Non-Domestic Supply segment, sites are based on the number of distinct MPRNs and MPANs in our billing system for gas and electricity respectively.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S TRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 191 191 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement BASIS OF PREPARATION Transfer pricing for electricity, gas and generation licensees in accordance with paragraph 4 d 19A.
4 d There are no specific energy supply agreements between the Generation and Supply segments apart from a small number of bilateral offi take contracts between wind farm joint ventures and Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply segments.
The Group continues to ensure transfer pricing methodologies are appropriate and up to date.
In order to meet this requirement, the Group ensured all transfer pricing and cost allocation methodologies were internally reviewed, updated and collated in a central repository.
Internal Audit performed a limited procedures review of the documentation in January 2015 to give comfort over compliance with the Ofgem guidelines, with their next review planned for January 2018.
Treatment of joint ventures and associates The share of results of joint ventures and associates for the year ended 31 December 2015 principally arises from the Groups interests in the entities listed on page 184.
Under paragraph 5 of the Conditions, the information provided in the CSS includes our gross share of revenues, costs, profits and volumes of joint ventures and associates.
In preparing the CSS, joint ventures and associates which hold a UK generation licence or exemption are accounted for as follows: our proportionate share of revenues of joint ventures and associates has been included within revenue: our proportionate share of the profit before tax of joint ventures and associates has been included within EBIT and EBITDA: and our proportionate share of the generation volumes of joint ventures and associates has been included within the generation volumes.
For each of the above items, our share of the income and expenses of the joint ventures or associates has been combined line-by-line within the relevant item of the CSS.
The Supply segment has investments in associates but because the investees businesses do not relate to the sale of gas and electricity, the share of result revenue of 2.0 million 2014: 6.0 million, EBIT loss of 1.0 million 2014: 1.0 million loss has been included net within indirect costs rather than gross, on a line-by-line basis.
Exceptional items and certain re-measurements Mark-to-market adjustments, profits or losses on disposal and impairment charges that have been identified in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 are excluded from the CSS.
For further details of excluded exceptional items and certain re-measurements see note 7 in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015.
The Nuclear sub-segment result includes a 19.6 million 2014: 20.8 million profit from the revaluation of contingent valuation rights, related to the original acquisition of the Nuclear investment.
This result has been included in the Generation segment as it is not exceptional in size, nature or incidence, and does not materially change the Generation result.
There were no impairment losses in the Supply segment during the year 2014: 2.4 million.
The Generation segment includes a number of impairment losses totalling 7.3 million.
These losses have been included in the Generation results as they are not exceptional in size, nature or incidence, and do not materially change the result.
A reconciliation of the Segmental Statement revenue, EBIT, depreciation and Supply PAT to the 2015 audited Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts has been included in accordance with paragraph 4 b & c 19A.
6. i Internal power off-take contracts are long-term power and associated renewable certificate sales from Generation owned assets to Domestic and Non-Domestic Electricity Supply.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 192 F FINANC INANCIIAL S AL ST TA A T T E E M M E EN NTS TS O O FG FG EE M M C C OO NS NO SL O ID LI A D TA ED TE S D EG SE M G EN MT E A N LT S AT L A T SE TM AT EN EME T NT 192 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement RECONCILIATION TO CENTRICA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS The reconciliation refers to the segmental analysis of the 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts in note 4.
Supply segment Generation Domestic Non-Domestic segment Electricity Gas Electricity Gas Notes 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts i Segmental Analysis 1,189.6 8,249.0 2,462.6 Gas and Electricity allocation 1 3,309.4 4,939.6 1,784.7 677.9 Include share of JVs and associates 2 742.5 Exclude intra-segment revenues 3 661.9 Exclude midstream revenues 4 106.5 Exclude non-domestic services revenues 5 102.2 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 1,163.7 3,309.4 4,939.6 1,682.5 677.9 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts i Segmental Analysis 102.5 574.4 21.6 Gas and Electricity allocation 1 5.4 579.8 54.4 32.8 Exclude midstream EBIT 4 17.6 Exclude non-domestic services loss 5 5.6 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 84.9 5.4 579.8 48.8 32.8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts i Segmental Analysis 34.5 109.5 13.5 Gas and Electricity allocation 1 48.1 61.4 9.3 4.2 Include share of JVs and associates depreciation 2 166.6 Exclude midstream depreciation 4 Exclude non-domestic services depreciation 5 0.9 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 201.1 48.1 61.4 8.4 4.2 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts i Segmental Analysis 461.0 18.0 Gas and Electricity allocation 1 4.5 465.5 44.1 26.1 Exclude non-domestic services loss 5 5.2 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement 4.5 465.5 38.9 26.1 i The table above reconciles the Generation segment to Centrica Energy Power, the Domestic Supply segment to British Gas Residential energy supply and the Non-Domestic Supply segment to British Gas Business energy supply and services in note 4 to the 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts.
Also included in note 4 is a reconciliation to the IFRS compliant statutory result reported by the Centrica plc Group.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 PAT m Depreciation m EBIT m Revenue m S TRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 193 193 Ofgem Consolidated Segmental Statement RECONCILIATION TO CENTRICA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Notes: 1.
The share of Domestic and Non-Domestic Revenues, Operating Profit EBIT, Depreciation including amortisation and PAT adjusted operating profit after tax as provided in note 4 of the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015, has been split between Gas and Electricity.
742.5 million of revenues relating to the Groups share of joint ventures and associates in Generation are included in the CSS 643.9 million relating to Nuclear revenues and 98.6 million relating to Wind revenues.
261.8 million of EBIT in the Generation segment relates to profit from joint ventures 227.8 million profit relating to Nuclear and 34.0 million profit relating to Wind.
Additionally, costs relating to the Groups share of joint ventures and associates 83.9 million direct fuel costs, 237.2 million direct costs, 7.0 million indirect costs and 166.6 million depreciation and amortisation are included.
The results of joint ventures and associates are shown separately in the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 in notes 6 and 14.
661.9 million of intra-segment revenues between the joint ventures and associates and the Generation segment included in the 742.5 million of joint venture and associate revenues are excluded from the CSS.
106.5 million of revenues, 17.6 million of operating profit and no depreciation relating to Centricas Midstream Power non-licensed activities Midstream Power are excluded from the Generation segment of the CSS but have been voluntarily disclosed as Midstream Power.
102.2 million of revenues, 5.6 million of operating loss, 0.9 million of depreciation and 5.2 million of operating loss after tax relate to Non-Domestic services and are excluded from the CSS.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
