104 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 FiNANciAL stAteMeNts dIrectors respoNsIbILItIes Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report The directors are also responsible for the preparation of the strategic report including the business model and risk management and financial statements report, directors report, directors remuneration report, nomination The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and report and corporate governance statement.
These reports are financial statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey contained within the annual report and financial statements.
Law, 1991 the Law and applicable laws and regulations.
The Law requires the Company to prepare financial statements in These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate Company has chosen to prepare the accounts in accordance with the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements.
by the European Union and applicable law.
The directors consider that the annual report and financial Under the Law, the directors must not approve the accounts statements, when taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of understandable and provide the information necessary for the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, model and strategy.
accounting standards require that directors: The board receives written assurances from the CEO and CFO select suitable accounting policies and apply them that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the groups financial consistently: position presents a true and fair view and that the financial make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable statements are founded on a sound system of risk management, and prudent: internal compliance and control.
Further, they confirm that the groups risk management and internal compliance is operating provide additional disclosures when compliance with the efficiently and effectively.
The board recognises that internal control specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to assurances from the CEO and CFO can only be reasonable rather understand the impact of particular transactions, other events than absolute, and therefore they are not and cannot be designed and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial to detect all weaknesses in control procedures.
performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a The financial statements have been audited by the independent going concern.
audit and accounting firm,  LLP, who were given unrestricted access to all financial records and related The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting information, including minutes of all shareholder, board and records that are sufficient to show and explain the group and committee meetings.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and Company and The financial statements were approved by the board of directors enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with on 21 March 2016 and signed on their behalf by: the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Andrew Pardey Pierre Louw and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Chief executive officer Chief financial officer The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 21 March 2016 21 March 2016 of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Due to the Companys place of incorporation and its dual listing, it is subject to legislation in the United Kingdom, Canada and Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
