198 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Glossary $ Refers to US dollars unless specified otherwise 2P reserves Proven and probable reserves AFS Available-for-sale AGM Annual General Meeting AGR Advanced gas-cooled reactor AIP Annual Incentive Plan AOCF Adjusted operating cash flow Articles The Articles of Association Associate An entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significantinfluence bbl Barrels of oil bcf Billion cubic feet BSUOS Balancing services use of system C&I Commercial and industrial CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine CGU Cash generating unit CMA Competition and Markets Authority CO Carbon dioxide 2 CO e Universal unit of measurement of the global warming potential GWP of greenhouse gases GHG expressed 2 in terms of the GWP of one unit of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent 2 CPI Consumer Price Index CRM Customer relationship management CSS Consolidated Segmental Statement CUPS Centrica Unfunded Pension Scheme fide&P Distributed Energy and Power DECC Department of Energy and Climate Change DMSS Deferred and Matching Share Scheme E&P Exploration and production EBITDA adjusted Earnings from business performance before share of results of joint ventures and associates and before interest, tax, depreciation, impairments and amortisation EBT Employee Benefit Trust ECO The Energy Company Obligation is a UK government programme that requires energy suppliers to insulate and install energy efficiency measures to reduce heating costs across the UK EM&T Energy Marketing and Trading Employee Employee engagement is an emotional state driven by employees perception of what it is like to work for engagement an organisation.
What they think and feel will drive how they behave and this in turn has a measurable impact on business performance EP Economic profit is adjusted operating profit after share of joint venture interest less a tax charge based on the tax rate relevant to the business segments and after deduction of a capital charge EPS adjusted Earnings per share.
This measure of performance is calculated as profit or loss before other costs and exceptional items and certain re-measurements for the year, attributable to equity shareholders of the ultimate parent company, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year EUA European Union allowance carbon emissions certificate EU ETS European Union Emission Trading Scheme Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 199 FCA Financial Conduct Authority FOB Free on board, grants a supplier the global rights to deliver to wherever it can gain the best price for a cargo FTSE 100 Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 share index, an average of share prices in the 100 most actively traded companies on the London Stock Exchange, with the highest market capitalisation FVLCD Fair value less costs of disposal gCO kWh Grammes of carbon dioxide per kilowatt hour 2 GFRMC Group Financial Risk Management Committee HSES Health, safety, environment & security HVAC Heating, ventilation and air conditioning IAS International Accounting Standards IAS 19 The International Accounting Standard related to Employee Benefits.
These financial reporting rules include requirements related to pension accounting IAS 39 The International Accounting Standard related to financial instruments recognition & measurement IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard IPIECA International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association Jointly controlled A joint venture which involves the establishment of an entity to engage in economic activity, which the Group entity controls jointly with its fellow venturers KPI Key performance indicators kW Kilowatt kWh Kilowatt hour Level 1 Fair value is determined using observable inputs that reflect unadjusted quoted market prices for identical fair value assets and liabilities Level 2 Fair value is determined using significant inputs that may be either directly observable inputs or unobservable fair value inputs that are corroborated by market data Level 3 Fair value is determined using significant unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data and fair value may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in managements best estimate of fair value LNG Liquefied natural gas LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate.
A work related injury or illness that results in one or more days away from work, excluding the day that the injury or illness occurred LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan LTIS Long Term Incentive Scheme mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent mmth Million therms MPAN Meter point administration number MPRN Meter point reference number mtCO e Million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 MW Megawatt MWh Megawatt hour MWp Megawatt peak NBP National Balancing Point NBV Net book value NGO Non-governmental organisation nm Not measured Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 200 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Glossary continued NPS Net promoter score.
NPS measures customer advocacy by responses to the question How likely would you be to recommend us 010 scale ?
The score is calculated by the percentage of customers defined as promoters scoring 910 minus the percentage defined as detractors 06 OTC Over the counter PAC Political Action Committee PIE Pensions increase exchange PPA Power purchase agreement PP&E Property, plant and equipment ppt Percentage point PRA Prudential Regulation Authority Process safety Process safety is concerned with the prevention of harm to people and the environment, or asset damage from major incidents such as fires, explosions and accidental releases of hazardous substances PRT Petroleum Revenue Tax PwC Pricewaterhouse Coopers the external auditors QPI Qatar Petroleum International RBD Reconciliation by difference ROC Renewable Obligation Certificate RPI Retail Price Index SBU Standard bundled unit Scope 1 emissions The greenhouse gas GHG emissions associated with combustion of fossil fuels in the power stations, gas and oil assets, offices, vehicles, equipment and machinery owned controlled by the reporting entity, as well as the leakage or escape of GHG emissions Scope 2 emissions The greenhouse gas GHG emissions associated with the electricity, heat and steam we import for use in our power stations, gas and oil assets, offices, vehicles, equipment and machinery Securities Comprised of treasury gilts designated at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition and available-for-sale financial assets.
The fair values of securities are based on quoted market prices, when available.
If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated using observable market data SHESEC The Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee SIP Share Incentive Plan Spark spread The difference between the price of a unit of electricity and the cost of the gas used to generate it tCO e Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 The Code The UK Corporate Governance Code set of principles and provisions issued by the Financial Reporting Council TRIFR Total recordable injury frequency rate.
Recordable injuries include all work-related injuries including fatalities, lost time incidents, restricted duty and medical treatment excluding first aid only injuries TSR Total shareholder return measures the return to shareholders in terms of the growth of a 100 investment in the Companys shares, assuming that dividends and returns of capital are reinvested.
We compare our TSR with those of the other 99 members of the FTSE 100 TWh Terawatt hour VAT Value added tax VIU Value in use Vulnerable customer A customer is vulnerable if due to their personal circumstances, they may be unable to safeguard their personal welfare or that of other household members WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resources Institute Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Group Results CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Resilient financial performance in a challenging Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in 01 Group Results and environment.
Adjusted earnings per share of a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of Performance Summary 17.2p, down 4%.
Delivery of progressive future dividend 02 Chairmans Statement 05 Chief Executives Statement tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
Adjusted operating cash flow up 2% to 2,253 million.
10 How We Create Value 12 Our Businesses Strategy implementation on track with growth focus 9% reduction in net debt to 4,747 million.
14 Our Focus for Long-Term on customer-facing activities: adjusted operating Growth Post-tax exceptional items of 1,846 million profit from energy and services businesses up 20 Key Performance Indicators primarily as a result of falling commodity prices.
E&P free cash flow positive in 2015.
28 Business Review Group robust in a low commodity price environment 750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 34 Group Financial Review flat real $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP gas, 38 O ur Principal Risks and programme underpinned in our plans: 200 million Uncertainties 35 MWh UK power prices with sources and uses of savings expected in 2016.
GOVERNANCE of cash flow more than balanced over 20162018.
44 Board of Directors Confident in delivery of at least 3%5% per annum 46 Senior Executives 47 Directors and Corporate adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 Governance Report baseline adjusted for the low commodity price 63 Remuneration Report i environment.
2016 adjusted operating cash 80 Independent Auditors Report flow expected to exceed 2 billion.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 Group Income Statement GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL 89 G roup Statement of PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Comprehensive Income 2014 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change 89 G roup Statement of Year ended 31 December 2015 restated Change Total recordable injury frequency Changes in Equity Revenue 28.0bn 29.4bn 5 % rate per 200,000 hours worked 1.10 1.00 10% 90 Group Balance Sheet Adjusted operating profit 1,459m 1,657m 12 % ii Total customer account holdings 91 G roup Cash Flow Statement Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% 4 ppt year end, 000 28,433 29,035 2 % 92 Notes to the Financial Adjusted earnings 863m 903m 4 % Total customer gas consumption Statements Adjusted basic earnings per mmth 12,177 12,354 1 % 169 Company Statement share EPS 17.2p 18.0p 4 % of Changes in Equity Total customer electricity Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p 11 % consumption TWh 151.5 156.8 3 % 170 Company Balance Sheet iii 171 N otes to the Company Adjusted operating cash flow 2,253m 2,201m 2% Group direct headcount Financial Statements year end 39,348 37,734 4% Return on average capital 181 Gas and Liquids Reserves employed 11% 11% 0ppt i The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP gas and 35 MWh UK power.
182 Five Year Summary Group operating costs 3,039m 2,903m 5% ii 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to 183 O fgem Consolidated Group net investment 855m 829m 3% include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
Segmental Statement Group net debt 4,747m 5,196m 9 % iii Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Statutory operating loss 857 m 1,137 m nm 194 Shareholder Information Statutory loss for the year Disclaimer 198 Glossary This report is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% attributable to shareholders 747 m 1,012 m nm This Annual Report and Accounts does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, pre and post-consumer waste.
The paper mills are based in the or otherwise acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
Net exceptional items after tax European Union and manufacture papers independently audited This Annual Report and Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements with respect and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and included in statutory loss 1,846 m 1,161 m nm to the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc.
These statements accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on Basic earnings per share 14.9 p 20.2 p nm Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC certified and circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause CarbonNeutral.
actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Designed and produced by Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult an independent financial adviser.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Registered office: Company registered centrica.
com CENTRICA PLC In July 2015, we announced the conclusions of Millstream in England and Wales our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic Maidenhead Road No.
We concluded that Centricas strength Berkshire SL4 5GD lies in being a customer-facing energy and services business.
This is where we have distinctive positions and capabilities and where we can make the biggest difference and contribution going forward, for our customers, our employees and our shareholders.
Iain Conn Chief Executive Satisfying the changing needs of our customers Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Registered office: Company registered centrica.
Iain Conn Chief Executive Satisfying the changing needs of our customers Annual Review 2015 Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Registered office: Company registered centrica.
Iain Conn Chief Executive Satisfying the changing needs of our customers Annual Review 2015 Group Results CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Resilient financial performance in a challenging Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in 01 Group Results and environment.
Adjusted earnings per share of a full year dividend of 12.0p and dividend cover of Performance Summary 02 Chairmans Statement 17.2p, down 4%.
Delivery of progressive future dividend 05 Chief Executives Statement tied to confidence in underlying operating cash flow.
28 Business Review Group robust in a low commodity price environment 750 million per annum by 2020 cost efficiency 34 Group Financial Review 38 Our Principal Risks and flat real $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP gas, programme underpinned in our plans: 200 million Uncertainties 35 MWh UK power prices with sources and uses of savings expected in 2016.
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE of cash flow more than balanced over 20162018.
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 44 Board of Directors Confident in delivery of at least 3%5% per annum 46 Senior Executives adjusted operating cash flow growth from a 2015 47 Independent Auditors baseline adjusted for the low commodity price Statement i 48 Summary Group environment.
2016 adjusted operating cash Income Statement flow expected to exceed 2 billion.
49 Summary Group Balance Sheet 49 Summary Group Statement GROUP FINANCIAL SUMMARY GROUP KEY OPERATIONAL of Changes in Equity PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 49 Summary Group Cash Flow 2014 Year ended 31 December 2015 2014 Change Year ended 31 December 2015 restated Change Statement Total recordable injury frequency 50 Summary Directors and Revenue 28.0bn 29.4bn 5 % rate per 200,000 hours worked 1.10 1.00 10% Corporate Governance Adjusted operating profit 1,459m 1,657m 12 % ii Total customer account holdings Report Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 30% 4 ppt year end, 000 28,433 29,035 2 % 53 Summary Adjusted earnings 863m 903m 4 % Total customer gas consumption Remuneration Report Adjusted basic earnings per mmth 12,177 12,354 1 % SHAREHOLDER share EPS 17.2p 18.0p 4 % Total customer electricity INFORMATION Full year dividend per share 12.0p 13.5p 11 % consumption TWh 151.5 156.8 3 % 55 Shareholder Information iii Adjusted operating cash flow 2,253m 2,201m 2% Group direct headcount year end 39,348 37,734 4% Return on average capital employed 11% 11% 0ppt i The low commodity price environment assumes flat real prices of $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP gas and 35 MWh UK power.
Group operating costs 3,039m 2,903m 5% ii 2014 British Gas residential services product holdings have been restated to Group net investment 855m 829m 3% include 41,000 holdings following data assurance activity of our analytical systems.
Group net debt 4,747m 5,196m 9 % iii Group direct headcount excludes contractors, agency and outsourced staff.
Statutory operating loss 857 m 1,137 m nm Statutory loss for the year Disclaimer This review is printed on recycled silk papers made from 100% attributable to shareholders 747 m 1,012 m nm This Annual Review does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or otherwise pre and post-consumer waste.
The paper mills are based in the acquire or dispose of any Centrica shares or other securities.
Net exceptional items after tax European Union and manufacture papers independently audited This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial and certified by the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and included in statutory loss 1,846 m 1,161 m nm condition, results, operations and businesses of Centrica plc.
These statements and forecasts accredited to the Environmental Management System 14001. involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that Basic earnings per share 14.9 p 20.2 p nm Printed by CPI Colour Limited ISO14001, FSC certified and will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or CarbonNeutral.
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Group Results CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Resilient financial performance in a challenging Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in 01 Group Results and environment.
SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 01 Group Performance Summary Adjusted earnings Revenue Dividend per share 863m 28.0bn 12.0p 863m 28.0bn 12.0p 2015 2015 2015 2014 903m 2014 29.4bn 2014 13.5p 2013 1,333m 2013 26.6bn 2013 17.0p 2012 1,322m 2012 23.9bn 2012 16.4p IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY Conclusions of strategic review announced in July 2015, with Exploration & Production E&P and central power generation Centricas purpose defined as providing energy and services portfolios being actively refocused in line with strategy.
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers: strategy E&P focused on creating value in current price environment implementation on track.
through cost improvement and capital discipline.
Execution of strategy underpinned by comprehensive E&P capital expenditure reduced to around 500 million implementation plans across all businesses and functions.
New in 2016: flexibility to reduce expenditure further in 2017 organisational model, segments and business units announced, and 2018 if current low price environment is sustained.
with defined KPIs and metrics to measure success.
Post-tax impairments and provisions of 1,477 million on Group will report in line with the new reporting segments for E&P assets and 485 million on power assets, reflecting the first time at the 2016 Interim Results.
the end-year commodity price environment.
Focus for growth on distinctive customer-facing activities of Announced disposal of the GLID wind farms in February Energy Supply & Services, Connected Home, Distributed 2016, in line with strategy to exit wind power generation.
Energy & Power and Energy Marketing & Trading.
750 million cost efficiency programme underpinned and Significant improvement in performance in North America on track to be completed by 2020. with operating profit more than doubling compared to 2014.
Reduction Growth in margins in Direct Energy Business and increased in direct headcount of 3,000 roles expected in 2016. product bundling and differentiated offers in Direct Energy 200 million of savings expected to be delivered in 2016: Residential.
on track to deliver two-thirds or 500 million per annum Improved customer service and higher net promoter score by the end of 2018.
NPS in UK residential energy and services.
Weak result from British Gas Business but operational issues now largely rectified.
Focus on competitive pricing the only major UK residential energy supplier to make three reductions to household gas bills since the start of 2015, saving British Gas customers almost 100 per year on average.
Existing Connected Home and Distributed Energy & Power capabilities brought together under new business units, with good early progress made.
Unless otherwise stated, all references to operating profit or loss, Restatement details taxation, cash flow, earnings and earnings per share throughout Adjusted operating profit, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted the announcement are adjusted figures, reconciled to their statutory basic and adjusted diluted earnings and adjusted basic and equivalents in the Group Financial Review on pages 34 to 37. adjusted diluted earnings per share include fair value depreciation related to our investments in Venture and Nuclear.
Prior year comparators have been restated accordingly.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 02 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement The Group has delivered a resilient Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing performance for 2015, during what proved to be an incredibly challenging period for business.
We are an energy and services company both the energy sector and the global and our purpose is to deliver energy and services economy.
These results, the first full year under Iain Conns leadership, to satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
are a testimony to the resilience of our businesses, particularly those that are customer facing, and the dedication and hard work of our employees.
STRATEGIC REVIEW In July 2015, we announced the results of the Groups strategic review.
This review was largely driven by changing external factors and the Boards decision to question whether we had the right strategy and mix of businesses to take advantage of future opportunities.
As a Board, we fundamentally reassessed our strategy and the direction we wanted to take the Group.
In February 2015, we took the tough but necessary decision to cut the dividend, having reduced capital investment.
This was a further reason to review the Groups strategic direction so that we could move into the next phase with confidence and certainty.
Our review concluded that Centrica is first and foremost a customer-facing business.
We are an energy and services company and our purpose is to deliver energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
The outcome of the review requires a change to our portfolio mix with our growth areas focused on our customer-facing businesses and a reduced scale in gas and oil E&P to a level which will still allow us to participate effectively in that market, Rick Haythornthwaite, Chairman Serving our 18121948 1973 1986 customers Gas Light & Coke British Gas Corporation British Gas privatised Company formed established for over 200 years...
The Gas Light & Coke Company, The Gas Council is abolished British Gas Corporation is privatised formed by Frederick Winsor, was following the introduction of the and British Gas plc is formed.
The incorporated by Royal Charter in Gas Act in 1972 and British Gas Tell Sid campaign is launched 1812.
In 1948, the Gas & Coal Act Corporation is established in allowing customers to buy a stake nationalised the industry merging 1973.
The corporation is in British Gas.
Ofgas, the forerunner over 1,000 privately owned and responsible for the development of Ofgem, is created to regulate the municipal companies into 12 area and maintenance of the supply gasindustry.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 03 diversify our cash flows and help us to being nimble in our formulation of strategy major UK customer-facing business and has manage risk by contributing to the strength and attracting new talent to Centrica who a strong track record in improving customer of our balance sheet.
Although we are can provide us with competitive advantage.
service, increasing performance and driving making significant investment now, the Crucially, we will need to do this while growth through innovation.
Mark is well benefits from these changes will be realised maintaining our aim to deliver long-term placed to lead the business in this next over the next three to five years.
shareholder value through both returns and phase and our customer-facing businesses growth.
These goals are neither easy nor are already benefiting significantly from his ST 21 CENTURY ENERGY COMPANY will they be achieved overnight but they capabilities.
Jeff Bell, who was appointed as We believe in operating transparently, are an essential element of our journey interim Group Chief Financial Officer, has treating employees fairly and linking reward to transform Centrica.
Jeff brings extensive to performance.
These principles are not experience in driving financial performance BOARD CHANGES IN 2015 only the right thing to do but make good and has a strong track record in developing At the start of the year, Iain Conn was business sense too.
and leading finance teams both in the UK appointed as the Groups Chief Executive and in North America having joined the We also believe that we have a duty and he has shown that his breadth of Group in 2002. to make a positive contribution to the knowledge and commitment to customers communities in which we operate.
In the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and safety make him ideally suited to UK alone, Centrica supports 174,000 jobs FRAMEWORK lead Centrica in the next phase of its and 6,000 companies supplying goods development.
He has made a significant During 2015, the Board undertook a and services through our supply chain.
contribution in leading the Groups strategic fundamental review of the Groups principal In addition, we provide opportunities for review and has underpinned the outcome risks and its corporate governance training and apprenticeships to upskill with comprehensive implementation plans.
framework and considered the primary and motivate our workforce.
roles of the Boards Committees and During the year, both Carlos Pascual and Within the energy sector, we face particular their membership.
A new Committee was Steve Pusey joined the Board as Nonchallenges around sustainability: convened, the Safety, Health, Environment, Executive Directors.
Carlos experience Security and Ethics Committee SHESEC, heightened expectations for support to in international energy geopolitics and under the chairmanship of Mike Linn.
be given to those who are most affected economic and commercial development Its purpose is to ensure the effective by the additional costs of carbon has enhanced the Boards global management of risks in respect of people: reduction targets: perspective and he has brought strong engagement, culture and behaviours: challenge to the strategic review.
Steves prioritising technologies of lowest cost sourcing and supplier management: considerable international experience as a and least regret: and health, safety, environment and security: senior customer-facing business technology setting simple cost-effective information systems security: and legal, leader has provided a new dimension to our decarbonisation targets.
regulatory and ethical standards Boards discussions and undoubtedly this compliance.
The Board is engaged in understanding the helps us develop our thinking in respect potential of new technology and big data of our innovative offerings to customers.
in our sector and the role that leadership Mark Hodges, Executive Director and Chief can play in exploiting new opportunities Executive, Energy Supply & Services, and guarding against new risks.
In order UK & Ireland also joined the Board in 2015. st to succeed in the 21 century, we will need Mark has substantial experience of running a to focus our energies on building trust, 1997 2000 20022003 Centrica plc formed Direct Energy acquired Rough storage facility secured Centrica is formed when British Centricas acquisition of Direct Centrica acquired the Rough Gas plc is demerged into two Energy marks a major step offshore gas storage facility separate companies: Centrica plc in international expansion.
off the East Yorkshire coast.
Centrica maintains Direct Energy is the largest This is the largest gas storage the British Gasbrand in the UK.
unregulated retailer of natural facility in the UK, holding the gas in North America.
majority of the UKs current storage capacity.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 04 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement continued BOARD EVALUATION The clear outcome of the 2015 UK general Our strategic direction involves election has provided greater political Centrica has for many years conducted a less reliance on upstream and certainty.
The Competition and Markets thorough review of Board process, practice Authority CMA investigation into the UK and culture on an annual basis with the more investment in sources energy market is ongoing and we welcomed input of an external facilitator at least once of differentiation in Energy this wide-ranging review and the possibility every three years.
The Board considers that it will have a constructive influence such annual reviews as an essential part Services, Connected Home, on competition in the sector.
In 2015, Distributed Energy & Power and we assessed our effectiveness internally The Group is underpinned by our building on the findings from the 2014 Energy Marketing & Trading.
competitive advantage including our strong external exercise.
We focused on our market share in the geographies we operate progress against our improvement agenda in, good brands and deep energy services READ MORE IN OUR BUSINESSES ON PAGE 12. and new reflections in the light of our capability.
Building on these strengths, our evolving context and composition.
strategic direction involves less reliance on upstream and more investment in sources DIVERSITY of differentiation in Energy Services, Centrica continues to support diversity in Connected Home, Distributed Energy & all its forms, from the top of our organisation Power fide&P and Energy Marketing & down.
We believe that a mixed, diverse Trading EM&T.
workforce is best able to engage with Looking ahead, our people and our our customers and society.
We know technologies are what will make us that diversity drives better insight and distinctive, giving us the competitive understanding of customers, leads to better advantage to not only respond to the innovations and itself attracts diverse talent.
changing global energy sector but to win OUTLOOK for our customers.
For these reasons, For 2016, continued weaknesses in I believe this is an exciting time for Centrica.
commodity prices will provide challenges for Rick Haythornthwaite the Group.
However, I am confident in the Chairman Groups resilience against this backdrop.
18 February 2016 The Group will continue to engage actively in discussions on energy policy in the UK, Europe and North America in the interests of our customers and stakeholders.
2009 2013 2014 2015 Centrica expands Energy Marketing Bord Gis Energy AlertMe and Panoramic in the North Sea business of Hess acquired Power acquired and into nuclear Corporation acquired Centrica acquired Venture Direct Energy acquired the Centrica acquired Bord Gis British Gas completed the Production to become a Energy Marketing business of Energy, a vertically integrated acquisition of AlertMe, leading operator of mature and Hess Corporation.
This made energy supply business in the a UK-based connected home orphaned gas assets in the UK Direct Energy the largest business adjacent market of the Republic company.
Direct Energy also continental shelf and acquires a gas supplier on the US East of Ireland from Bord Gis ireann, acquired Panoramic Power, a 20% interest in British Energys Coast and the second largest the state-owned energy company.
leading provider of device-level nuclear fleet of power stations business power supplier in the energy management solutions.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 05 Chief Executives Statement OVERVIEW We have a clear strategy for delivering growth 2015 provided a very challenging and returns built around the customer and I am environment for Centrica.
Commodity prices continued to fall during the year, encouraged by the progress we have made.
creating major challenges for our E&P and nuclear power businesses.
However, Centrica delivered a resilient financial performance against this backdrop, with increased adjusted operating cash flow and a 9% reduction in net debt in the year.
In addition, the actions we have taken since the start of 2015 on the dividend, capital expenditure and costs mean the Group is robust in this much lower oil and gas price environment, and our current projections indicate we can more than balance sources and uses of cash flow out to 2018 at flat real commodity prices of $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP gas and 35 MWh UK power.
In July, we announced the conclusions of our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic review.
We concluded that Centricas strength lies in being a customer-facing energy and services business.
Our purpose to provide energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our customers provides a clear future direction for the Group.
Everything we do will be in support of this purpose, as we position Centrica to deliver returns and growth.
Iain Conn, Chief Executive Key events January February in 2015... British Gas and Bord Gis Strategic review Energy announce price cuts announced British Gas announced a 5% Centrica announced a reduction in Standard and fundamental strategic review Fix & Fall household gas tariffs of the Group, largely driven benefiting 6.8million customers.
by changing external factors Bord Gis Energy announced and the Boards decision it would cut the unit rate of gas to question whether we had by 3.5% and the unit rate of the right strategy and mix of electricity by 2.5%.
businesses to take advantage of future opportunities.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 06 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Chief Executives Statement continued production and nuclear generation volumes We remain confident we can deliver at least CASH FLOW RESILIENCE were strong.
However, as previously 35% per annum operating cash flow We made good progress during the reported we did face issues following the growth at flat real commodity prices and year in our actions to improve cash flows migration of customer accounts and are committed to delivering a progressive and strengthen the Groups financial associated data onto a new billing and dividend in line with the sustainable position.
Adjusted operating cash flow customer relationship management system operating cash flow growth of the Group.
of 2,253million was up 2% compared from multiple legacy systems in British Gas I am encouraged with the progress we to 2014, with increased cash flow from our Business.
This resulted in temporary have made since July, as we develop our customer-facing businesses offsetting the increases in operating costs to help resolve customer-facing platforms for growth and impact of lower wholesale prices on E&P.
the issues and an increase in debt we deliver on our major cost efficiency We took action to reduce capital expenditure balances, while the number of customer programme, which is now underpinned in to just over 1billion, including two small accounts reduced over the year.
Combined with our decision to these factors, our UK business energy strategy is on track, I remain excited about re-base the dividend in February 2015, the supply and services division reported this next phase and continue to believe that introduction of a scrip dividend alternative, an operating loss in 2015.
Centrica has all the components necessary and some divestment proceeds, net debt to deliver a powerful investor proposition fell by 9% or 449million to 4.7billion.
Given the above, and the low commodity one of returns and growth.
Reflecting our focus on costs and capital price environment, Group adjusted discipline, our E&P business was free cash operating profit fell by 12% compared to 2015 PERFORMANCE flow positive in 2015.
2014, to 1,459million, although profit from Safety and compliance remain our top our customer-facing energy and services The steep falls in wholesale commodity priority.
In safety, we experienced a slight businesses was up 19%.
The Group tax prices will continue to have a material degradation in personal safety performance.
rate of 26% was lower than in 2014, impact on the operating cash flows from We also experienced one Tier 1 process reflecting a reduced proportion of profit our E&P and central power generation safety incident during the year and we are from the heavily-taxed E&P business.
As a businesses in 2016 and beyond, if focused on improving our performance in result, Group adjusted earnings only fell by current levels persist.
In regulatory compliance, we 4% compared to last year, to 863million, customer-facing businesses are delivering have had constructive interactions with our and adjusted earnings per share of 17.2p.
resilient cash flows and benefits from our principal regulators and have continued These figures now include fair value cost efficiency programme are starting to contribute to the CMA investigation into depreciation related to our investments in to be realised.
If current low wholesale the functioning of the UK energy market.
Venture and Nuclear, a change in definition prices continue beyond 2016, we have Overall operational performance was solid we announced in our December 2015 the flexibility to reduce our E&P capital during the year.
Customer service levels Trading Update.
The 2015 final proposed expenditure further to the bottom end improved in the UK, with residential dividend per share of 8.43p is in line with of our 400 million 600million range.
complaints down 18% and a higher NPS.
last year, taking the 2015 full year dividend As a result, we currently project that our In UK residential energy supply, the number to 12.0p.
sources and uses of cash flow will remain of accounts was down by less than 1% in more than balanced over the period We also incurred pre-tax impairments and a highly competitive market, while we were 20162018, even if flat real wholesale oil, onerous provisions on E&P and power the only major UK energy supplier to reduce gas and power prices remain at low levels generation assets of 2,358million, residential gas tariffs twice in 2015, by a of $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP resulting in total post-tax exceptional items total of 10%.
In North America, extreme gas and 35 MWh UK power.
These impairments reset cold weather in the first half of the year was the Groups balance sheet to reflect the handled well, while we delivered increased current commodity price environment.
margins and growth in margin under contract in Direct Energy Business.
E&P March April May Direct Energy in Dedicated to serving Centrica extends gas ground breaking customers supply contracts loyalty programme Direct Energy became a British Gas dedicated an Centrica extended contracts with participating member of Plenti, additional 50 million investment Statoil and Gazprom Marketing the first of its kind US-based over three years, demonstrating and Trading.
The separate deals coalition loyalty programme.
The its commitment to customer will meet the gas needs of nine programme offers customers the service excellence.
million British homes every year.
opportunity to earn promotional points for signing up for qualifying energy plans enhancing Direct Energys customer proposition.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 07 We launched our new simpler Homecare We remain confident in delivering at least We completed the acquisition of services product range in the UK and 3-5% per annum operating cash flow Panoramic Power, a leading provider have plans to launch propositions which growth at flat real prices from a 2015 of device-level energy management appeal to new customer segments, baseline adjusted for current prices.
solutions, providing our fide&P business including on-demand and landlords, with leading capabilities in energy Combined with more than balanced in 2016. management technology and data sources and uses of cash flow in this science expertise, and enabling us to environment, our focus remains to deliver We have now installed more than two enhance our offerings to Commercial & a progressive dividend in line with operating million residential smart meters in the Industrial C&I customers.
UK and expect to install over one million in 2016, allowing us to provide more In Energy Marketing & Trading: PROVIDING ENERGY AND SERVICES TO customers with accurate bills and We continue to build our capability and SATISFY THE CHANGING NEEDS OF improving customer engagement.
completed a number of free on board OUR CUSTOMERS FOB liquefied natural gas LNG cargoes In Connected Home: Our customer-facing businesses are a in 2015 and have secured further cargoes We have established a new international source of competitive advantage given our which are scheduled for delivery in 2016. business unit, bringing together existing distinctive positions and capabilities, and expertise in the UK and North America, We expect to take delivery of the first these businesses will be our focus areas for including capabilities gained through the cargo under our US export contract growth.
As we set out in July, we expect to AlertMe acquisition in March 2015. with Cheniere in late 2018 or early 2019, invest an additional 1.5billion of operating following a positive final investment We have now sold over 300,000 smart and capital resources into these growth decision on the fifth train of their Sabine thermostats in the UK, having launched areas Energy Supply & Services, Pass LNG facility in Louisiana in June.
the next generation of our Hive Active Connected Home, fide&P and EM&T over TM Heating product in the second half of the next five years.
Implementation of our REFOCUSING OUR E&P AND POWER the year, and have sold nearly 200,000 strategy is on track and we have made some BUSINESSES smart thermostats in North America.
We material early progress in all of these areas.
As part of our strategic review, we also continue to develop plans to launch Hive In Energy Supply & Services: clarified the role of E&P in the portfolio products outside of the UK and Republic We are focused on competitive pricing for to provide diversity of cash flows and the of Ireland in 2016. all our customers and have made three UK balance sheet strength that goes with this.
In early 2016 we launched a range of residential gas price reductions since the We are targeting a stable business that new connected home products in the start of 2015, saving British Gas customers produces between 4050mmboe of gas UK, including the Hive Active Plug, almost 100 per year on average.
and oil per annum and requires between Hive Window or Door Sensor and Hive We continue to develop our bundled 400million 600million of capital to Motion Sensor.
energy and services propositions for fulfil this role.
This compares to gas and In Distributed Energy & Power: residential customers in North America, oil production and capital expenditure We have established a new international with 46% of energy customer acquisitions levels respectively of 79mmboe and business unit and are looking to increase in 2015 also taking a services protection 728million in 2015 and 80mmboe the number of customer relationships plan or smart thermostat, up from 11% and 1,086million in 2014. we have for distributed energy activity in 2014.
As a result of capital discipline and cost in the UK and North America from over We increased our number of energy efficiency programmes, E&P was free cash 1,000 currently.
accounts in the Republic of Ireland, the flow positive in 2015 despite the current low first growth in accounts for a number of wholesale price environment.
In the near years, as we focus on increasing our term, at current depressed wholesale prices market share.
July British Gas cuts prices Conclusion of the again strategic review British Gas announced its second The review identifies a clear gas price reduction in six months direction for the business.
bringing the average total savings Growth ambitions will focus in 2015 to 72 for British Gas on customer-facing activities.
The price cut benefits Sources of competitive advantage 6.9 million British Gas customers include strong market shares, on Standard and Fix & Fall tariffs.
good brands and deep energy services capability.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 08 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Chief Executives Statement continued expected to be approximately 115million.
from our third party cost base, with a we will only invest in new E&P developments This disposal forms part of our divestment number of initiatives ongoing.
As a result, if the Groups cash flows can support the programme, under which we expect to we expect to deliver 200million of investment and the projects indicate good realise 0.5billion 1billion of proceeds annualised savings in 2016 and we are on returns over a range of price environments.
from the sale of E&P and wind assets by track to achieve two-thirds, or 500million, We currently expect to invest around the end of 2017. of the savings by 2018.
500million in 2016, reflecting expenditure on existing in-flight projects such as Cygnus COST EFFICIENCY ORGANISING AROUND OUR and Maria.
However, in the absence of a CUSTOMERS We announced as part of the strategic recovery in oil and gas prices, we could In January 2016, we announced review conclusions that we are targeting potentially make further reductions to the fundamental changes to the way that 750million per annum of like-for-like cost levels of E&P capital expenditure.
Centrica will be organised, to support efficiencies from operating costs and We will also be pursuing further cost delivery of our strategy.
Centrica has controllable cost of goods, to be delivered reductions.
We now expect cash production historically operated as a holding company over the next five years.
We expect to costs to be 15%, or 150million, lower in for a number of different and largely achieve this from a 2015 controllable cost 2016 when compared to 2014.
This is self-contained businesses, each of which base of around 5billion, before inflation, 50million lower than the levels previously had its own organisation and way of doing one-off investment to achieve the savings, announced.
We will explore all options to things.
This model made it harder for us the costs of installing smart meters and strengthen our E&P business.
to work together across businesses, share additional investment in growth areas.
After ideas and best practice, and meant we inflation, we still expect like-for-like operating Our E&P focus is on the UK, Netherlands have not been taking advantage of costs to reduce by around 300million by and Norway, and as such we continue to Centricas scale as an international energy 2020, and after additional operating costs review options to release capital from our and services company.
Trinidad and Tobago assets, while we now to deliver incremental gross margin in the consider our positions in Canada to be growth areas of services, Connected Home, We have therefore moved to establish a non-core.
We continue to work with our fide&P and EM&T, we would expect total single group of international businesses and Canadian partners, Qatar Petroleum, as nominal operating costs in 2020 to be have created eleven business units.
we seek ways to maximise value from our no higher than their 2015 level.
We also We have combined our energy and services existing position.
announced that the programme would activities around our residential and result in a reduction in like-for-like business customer segments and a In central power generation, we are in the headcount of around 6,000 roles by 2020, common operating model, with the creation process of rationalising our thermal power with around half expected to come from of UK Home, UK Business, North America generation portfolio with a view to redundancy and half from natural attrition.
Home, North America Business and Ireland simplification and cost reduction, while business units.
This will allow us to more retaining low-cost optionality.
Our focus for The 750million programme is now effectively deliver products and services growth is on peaking units and distributed underpinned in our business plans.
We which respond to changing customer needs generation.
We continue to view our remain on track to achieve the savings at a competitive price.
The Home and participation in nuclear power as a financial and have already made a number of Business units in both the UK and North investment, while in wind power generation restructuring announcements across the America will be supported by common we announced in July that we intend to Group, which will result in the reduction of operating functions of Field Operations dispose of our interests in assets, while around 2,000 roles.
We expect to achieve and Customer Operations, while our new continuing to participate to a limited degree a reduction in direct headcount of around Connected Home and fide&P business through power purchase agreements PPA.
3,000 by the end of 2016, excluding the units will also leverage Home and Business In February 2016, we announced we were impact of increased headcount in smart respectively to sell their products.
disposing of our 50% interest in the Glens metering and in growth areas such as our of Foudland, Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind Connected Home business.
We have also EM&T will continue to provide services to farms, with our net share of proceeds made good progress in delivering savings the other businesses, while E&P, Nuclear August September October Smart meter landmark Bord Gis Energy cuts New well at York field prices again British Gas announced that Bord Gis Energy announced its Drilling began for a new well at second price cut in 2015.
Bord the York field that will tap into an 1.5 million smart meters have been installed in UK homes.
Gis Energy customers unit rate additional 20 billion cubic feet of of gas was cut by a further 2.5% gas, enough to heat half a million Smart meters put an end to estimated bills, giving customers and the unit rate of electricity by UK homes for a year.
the field is processed at greater understanding and control of their energy consumption.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 09 In summary, Centrica has produced and Centrica Storage will all be run as COMPETITION AND MARKETS a resilient performance in 2015 and separate business units.
All business units AUTHORITY INVESTIGATION the actions we have taken leave us will be supported by nine Group functions, The CMA investigation into the UK energy well positioned to handle the current specifically Finance, Human Resources, market is ongoing and the Provisional environment, with sources and uses Corporate Affairs, HSES Health, Safety, Decision on Remedies is now expected of cash flow more than balanced at Environment & Security, Information in March 2016, with the final report due current wholesale commodity prices.
Services, Technology & Engineering, in June 2016.
This follows the publication With a strategy developed around the Group Marketing, Procurement and Legal, of the CMAs provisional findings and notice customer, we have a clear purpose and Regulatory & Compliance.
These changes of possible remedies in July 2015.
Implementation of the strategy will allow Centrica to leverage its scale contributed constructively to the process is on track and I am pleased with the and operate in a more efficient, effective and improved customer trust in the progress we have made to date.
I am and joined-up way, allowing us to serve functioning of the energy market is confident in our ability to deliver our target our customers more effectively and something we would welcome.
of at least 35% growth in operating cash efficiently while contributing to underlying We have expressed concerns over some flow per annum at flat real commodity cash flow growth.
of the CMAs provisional findings and prices, underpinning a progressive proposals including the potential KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS dividend policy and delivering shareholder introduction of a transitional safeguard AND NEW SEGMENTS value through returns and growth.
We also expressed The execution of our strategy is now Iain Conn concerns regarding their analysis of underpinned by comprehensive Chief Executive profitability and returns.
As part of our implementation plans across all businesses 18 February 2016 response to the CMA we suggested an and functions.
We have also now defined alternative to the safeguard regulated tariff, the key performance indicators KPIs the ending of evergreen tariffs.
As long against which we will measure success in as this is implemented appropriately, we delivering our strategy, both at a Group and believe it will improve engagement by business unit level.
The KPIs for our energy providing customers with a regular prompt and services businesses are consistent to review their energy tariff, addressing the across geographies, in line with the concerns the CMA may have around establishment of a common operating customer engagement without the need for model, while the KPIs for all business units a regulated tariff.
We will continue to engage are intended to provide an appropriate with the CMA as their process comes to balance of growth and efficiency metrics.
a conclusion over the coming months.
Details of these KPIs can be found at centrica.
We intend to 2016 OUTLOOK AND SUMMARY report these KPIs in each half year and full The lower commodity price environment year results announcement, starting at our will inevitably continue to have an impact Interim Results in July 2016. on the earnings and operating cash flow from our E&P and central power generation In addition, new reporting segments are businesses.
However, with our focus on in place, effective from 1 January 2016, cash flow growth and delivery of our aligned to the new strategy and the way 750million cost efficiency programme, we now run the business.
These will also we currently expect to deliver adjusted be reported against for the first time at our operating cash flow in excess of 2billion Interim Results in July 2016.
Details of the in 2016. new segments can be found on page 13.
November December Major investment at Growth in Connected gas-fired South Humber Home Bank power station Centrica confirmed a 63million Connected Home confirmed investment at South Humber sales of over 250,000 smart Bank gas-fired power station, thermostats in the UK to the end securing the future of the site of 2015.
Three million customers up to 2027.
The power station in the UK, North America and is capable of producing enough the Republic of Ireland also now electricity to meet the needs have access to our analytics of over one million UK homes.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 10 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE CREATE VALUE How We Create Value OUR PURPOSE OUR STRATEGY Long-term growth We are an energy Energy Supply & Services and services company.
Distributed Energy & Power fide&P Connected Home Everything we do is Energy Marketing & Trading EM&T focused on satisfying Cash flow and balance sheet strength the changing needs Exploration & Production E&P Central Power Generation of our customers.
Centrica Storage SEE PAGES 14 TO 19 FOR MORE DETAIL ON OUR STRATEGY AND PAGES 38 TO 42 FOR INFORMATION ON HOW OUR RISKS ARE MANAGED.
Business unit OUR ORGANISATIONAL MODEL Operating function Underpinning how we create value is our new operating model which Group function is aligned to our strategy and our focus on customer-facing businesses.
North North UK UK Ireland E&P Nuclear Centrica i America America Home Business Storage Home Business Distributed Energy & Power Connected Home Energy Marketing & Trading Field operations Field operations Common operating model Customer operations Customer operations Group functions i Centrica Storage is operated as a separate ring-fenced entity.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 11 DELIVERING OUR LONG-TERM FINANCIAL GOALS OUR LONG-TERM THROUGH A CLEAR FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK FINANCIAL GOALS Deliver long-term Targets Metrics shareholder value Operating cash flow OCF 3% to 5% growth per annum through returns Dividend Progressive in line with OCF and growth.
Controllable costs Cost growth inflation Capital reinvestment Investment 70% of OCF Limited to 1 billion per annum in 2016 2017 Credit rating Strong investment grade Return on average capital 10% to 12% employed post-tax OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE THROUGH THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR STRATEGY WE WILL REALISE OUR GOALS TO BECOME Serving our customers is what we are A trusted corporate citizen known for, what we are good at and where we have distinctive capabilities.
An employer of choice Our customer-facing businesses are st A 21 century energy company a source of competitive advantage, given our distinctive positions and capabilities, and these businesses will WITH OUR PRIMARY FOCUS ON be our focus areas for growth.
These Safety, compliance and conduct areas will receive additional operating Customer satisfaction and operational excellence and capital resources of approximately Cash flow growth and strategic momentum 1.5billion over the next five years.
Cost efficiency and simplification People and building capability Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 12 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESSES Our Businesses OUR BUSINESSES IN 2015 OUR GROUP STRATEGIC REVIEW An integrated energy company, participating throughout the energy value chain.
Adjusted operating profit Our strategic review carried British Gas out in 2015 concluded that British Gas is the UKs leading energy 809m supplier and offers a comprehensive range Centricas strengths lie in being 2014: 823m of services from boiler installation and a customer-facing business.
maintenance to plumbing and drains.
Our focus is to deliver for the changing needs of our Adjusted operating profit Direct Energy customers, by continuing to Direct Energy is one of the largest retail develop our existing services 328m providers of electricity, natural gas and and by accessing new strategic home services across North America.
We are reducing the scale Adjusted operating profit of our E&P business to a Bord Gis Energy sustainable level which will allow Bord Gis Energy is a leading supplier 30m of energy in the Republic of Ireland.
us to participate effectively, 2014: 7m diversify our cash flows and help us to manage risk by contributing to the strength Adjusted operating profit Centrica Energy of our balance sheet.
Centrica is one of the top gas 255m producers on the UK continental shelf.
2014: 648m Restated see page 1 for details.
Adjusted operating profit Centrica Storage Centrica Storages Rough gas storage 37m facility is the largest in the UK.
2014: 29m Breakdown by operating revenue Breakdown by adjusted operating profit British Gas 12,303m British Gas 809m Direct Energy 10,587m Direct Energy 328m Bord Gis Energy 733m Bord Gis Energy 30m Centrica Energy 4,242m Centrica Energy 255m Centrica Storage 106m Centrica Storage 37m READ MORE ABOUT OUR 2015 PERFORMANCE IN THE BUSINESS REVIEW ON PAGES 28 TO 33.
READ MORE ABOUT HOW WE CREATE VALUE ON PAGES 10 AND 11.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 13 OUR GROUP STRATEGIC REVIEW OUR FUTURE BUSINESSES OUR BRANDS A customer-facing energy and services Strong customer-facing brands st company for the 21 century.
Energy Supply & Services Supplying energy and services to residential and business customers in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America through our new business segments: UK Home: UK Business: Ireland: North America Home: and North America Business.
Distributed Energy & Power Our vision is to provide large scale C&I consumers with the ability to use energy more intelligently, giving customers tools to generate and manage their energy usage.
Connected Home Our Hive smart thermostat and other products and services help our customers manage their energy use in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America.
We plan to build a global business providing new and innovative solutions for consumers across the world.
Energy Marketing & Trading Operating in UK and European energy markets we trade in energy produced both inside and outside the business.
EM&T is the trading arm of Centrica and provides the route to market for our production and power generation operations.
Exploration & Production Targeting production of between 4050mmboe per year focused on the North Sea and East Irish Sea.
Central Power Generation We are rationalising our thermal power generation portfolio with a view to simplification and cost reduction while retaining low cost optionality.
Centrica Storage We intend to hold our Rough gas storage facility to ensure it fulfils its role as the main strategic storage asset for the UK.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR NEW BUSINESSES ON PAGES 14 TO 19.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 14 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Our focus for long-term growth Energy Supply & Services 1 Supplying UK & IRELAND Our energy supply businesses will continue to be a energy and key contributor to Group cash flow.
In the UK, given a highly competitive market, our focus for growth will be through significantly improved cost efficiency and customer service to underpin better retention levels.
providing We expect these to offset the impacts of competitive intensity and reducing consumption.
By leveraging our capability to innovate and compete, we believe that distinctive we can offer compelling propositions to customers.
In services, we are building on our capability in service delivery to develop new propositions to appeal to new and leading customer segments.
In the Republic of Ireland we will look to increase ourshare of electricity supply and energy services services facilitated by a market more recently deregulated thanthe UK.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15 NORTH AMERICA Our North American customer-facing businesses are an important part of the Group and we see opportunities to increase market share.
In residential energy supply, we are focused on developing a more sustainable business model through the development of improved bundled propositions, greater focus on customer mix and achieving better retention levels.
In business energy supply, the acquisition of Hess Energy Marketing in 2013 has provided us with a market leading position and a strong base from which to deliver sustainable returns over the long term.
In our North American services business we are the US market leader, albeit with a small market share in a very fragmented market, and believe there is strong potential for growth from the wide range of products we are able to offer.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Our focus for long-term growth Distributed Energy & Power 2 Distributed energy, including energy efficiency, flexible generation and new technologies, is an activity which, alongside energy management and optimisation, we expect to provide significant growth potential for Focusing on Centrica in the long term.
This activity will be targeted at commercial and industrial C&I customers in all the geographies in which we operate.
Although building distributed up our capability in this area will require additional investment, many of the skills associated with distributed energy already exist in the Group.
energy offerings We have a good starting position and this is an attractive opportunity for Centrica.
We expect to invest up to 700 million of additional operating and capital resources in this area over the next five years.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 17 Connected Home 3 Investing We believe that our Connected Home offerings will become increasingly important, with propositions in Smart linked to our core energy and services products in the UK, the Republic of Ireland and North America.
These propositions will help to underpin better retention levels as well as provide growth opportunities technologies in their own right.
We already have products in the market under our Hive brand and have built high quality end-to-end in the home capability in this area, with operating platform design and operation, hardware and software development, data analytics, installation and maintenance.
Given these capabilities, the scale of our existing customer relationships and our ability to directly support customers through our national network of engineers and technicians, we will be able to compete effectively in this space.
To drive growth, we are investing 500 million in operating costs and capital expenditure in our Connected Home activities over the next five years.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 18 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR FOCUS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH Our focus for long-term growth Energy Marketing & Trading 4 Building our EM&T provides a good opportunity for growth and is an area where we already have strong capabilities.
international In LNG, the first commercial delivery under our US gas export contract with Cheniere is expected in late 2018 or early 2019 and we have been actively building both our capability and market presence in LNG.
capability We will also continue to expand our route to market services and to utilise our knowledge of European energy markets to benefit from trading and in energy optimisation activity.
We expect to invest an additional 150 million of operating costs and capital expenditure in this area marketing over the next five years.
and trading Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 19 Exploration & Production Supplying energy The role of Exploration & Production E&P in the portfolio is to provide cash flow and balance sheet and providing cash strength.
We have determined that a stable E&P business which produces around 4050mmboe per annum, and requires 400 million to 600 million of capital expenditure each year, is sufficient to fulfil flow and balance this role.
This compares to a business which produced 75-80mmboe and incurred capital expenditure of around 1.1 billion in both 2013 and 2014 as sheet strength we sought to grow E&P.
We will focus our E&P activity on the North Sea and East Irish Sea, where we are material enough to play a major role in the UK and Netherlands as well as having the capability and presence in Norway to allow us to access additional value opportunities.
Central Power Generation In thermal power, we will continue to operate our existing small gas-fired fleet, maximising optimisation activity and seeking opportunities to make investments in improving the fleet where economics allow.
We will maintain a watching brief as the capacity market evolves, and will retain sufficient capability to enable us to continue to manage power assets in the future.
However, we will not increase our emphasis on central thermal generation, preferring to seek opportunities in peaking units and distributed generation.
Additionally, we intend to continue to dispose of our interests in wind generation.
Our participation in nuclear power generation is an attractive financial investment but provides limited strategic optionality for the Group.
Centrica Storage Our offshore gas storage asset, Rough, is the largest in the UK.
We do not see it as a growth option in the current environment and will focus on safety, compliance and efficiency of the asset.
We will continue to work with the UK Government on any changes necessary to ensure Rough fulfils its role as a strategic asset for UK energy security.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 20 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We monitor our performance Key Performance by measuring and tracking key performance indicators KPIs.
Indicators Financial key performance indicators Adjusted operating Adjusted basic earnings Total shareholder Link to reward in 2015 profit per share EPS return TSR The performance of these Operating profit is our EPS is an industry standard The Board believes that KPIs is linked to the keymeasure for financial determining corporate TSR is a valuable KPI to remuneration arrangements performance.
assess theCompanys for Executive Directors.
remuneration purposes, EPS is adjusted to reflect performance in the delivery operating profit is adjusted better the performance of shareholder value.
toa post-tax basis and by of the business.
For 2016 Centrica underperformed the acharge on capital to set Reflecting the lower adjusted FTSE 100 return index over theeconomic profit operating profit, partially offset the three-year period ending The primary long-term performancetargets.
by a lower tax rate due to in 2015 by 12.5%.
financial goal for the Group With the impact of continued lower profits from the is now adjusted operating falls in wholesale oil and gas highly-taxed E&P business, cash flow AOCF growth.
prices only partially offset adjusted basic EPS was AOCF is now the basis of by higher profit in our down 4%.
the Annual Incentive Plan customer-facing businesses, AIP financialmeasure.
Non-financial KPIs Deloitte LLP review selected non-financial KPIs and provide limited assurance using the International Standard on Link to reward Link to reward Link to reward Assurance Engagements Short and long-term incentive Long-term incentive Short and long-term incentive ISAE 3000 Revised.
The full assurance statement Adjusted operating profit Adjusted EPS TSR indices unaudited and Basis of Reporting are available online.
Restated see page 1 for details.
Centrica return index FTSE 100 return index Source: Datastream i Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours worked to better align with industry standards.
ii Restated to align with the updated unit.
iii British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not comparable due to different methodologies.
iv Restated due to changes in methodology which now focuses on experiences at the end of key customer journeys.
v Data is not comparable with 2014 or 2015 due to changes in methodology.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 21 Non-financial key performance indicators Lost time injury Process Customer Employee frequency rate LTIFR safety satisfaction engagement Process safety is a key focus Everything we do is focused Creating a great place to work, We prioritise safety because it where we source, generate on satisfying the changing that motivates and enables spans all of our activities, from and store energy so that we needs of our customers.
our people to fulfil their working in customer homes can prevent potential major To measure customer potential, is a key driver of to securing energy offshore.
incidents, such as fires and satisfaction we use net employee engagement and In 2015, our LTIFR rose by iii explosions.
being an employer of choice.
21% to 0.34 per 200,000 i One significant process safety NPS for British Gas increased To achieve this, our people hours worked high event occurred in 2015 high to 4 median performance provide feedback which helps performance zone.
The rise was us understand what we are We are working hard to resulted in the permanent mainly due to service doing well and where we reduce the occurrence of disablement of a contractor.
improvements in key customer need to improve.
these injuries by delivering journeys as well as competitive We have created a three-year In 2015, our employee new leadership training and price reductions.
process safety improvement engagement score increased embedding a stronger health plan that will strengthen NPS for Direct Energy slightly to 4.84 out of 6 and safety culture among employee leadership and declined slightly to 37 median performance zone.
capability alongside enhancing high performance zone.
This is our highest result asset management and to date and remains above assurance processes.
average compared to peer companies.
Link to reward Link to reward Link to reward Link to reward Link to reward Short and long-term incentive Long-term incentive Long-term incentive Long-term incentive Long-term incentive TSR indices unaudited LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked Significant events NPS Employee engagement British Gas 160 0.34 1 4.84 out of 6 140 4 2014 and 2013: 0 2015 0.34 4.84 2015 120 2015 ii 4 2014 0.28 2014 4.79 100 iv -4 2014 ii 2013 0.22 80 2013 4.81 v 2013 15 12 13 14 15 Centrica return index Direct Energy FTSE 100 return index Source: Datastream 37 2015 37 2014 38 2013 40 Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 22 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS How We Do Business As a leading energy and services company with more EXPLORE MORE ABOUT HOW WE DO BUSINESS than 200 years of experience, we are well positioned AT CENTRICA.
to satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
To deliver this purpose, we must continue to improve and evolve how we do business.
We are building stronger relationships with key stakeholders that help us become a better corporate citizen and an employer of choice, with the capabilities necessary for delivering an excellent service in a safe and responsible way.
We are also making an important contribution to address big issues in society related to energy: from energy pricing and vulnerability to energy security and climate change.
By improving how we do business, we will better adapt to the challenges and opportunities that arise in the rapidly-changing world of energy and build trustworthiness in our business and sector.
Not only will this secure our long-term sustainable growth, st it will define us as a 21 century energy and services company acting for, and on behalf of, our current and future customers.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 23 Strengthening relationships for a better energy future Quality relationships with key stakeholders help evolve how we do business and determines our long-term success.
PRIORITISING SAFETY DEVELOPING SKILLS Meanwhile, service levels for business customers were lower than planned Ensuring the safety of our people, We must secure skills that satisfy our following issues relating to the migration customers and communities is our top customers changing needs while helping to new customer service systems.
Focus on safety also makes us our people fulfil their potential.
however, beginning to see improvements a stronger, more productive business for During 2015, British Gas invested that are expected to continue in 2016. meeting our customers needs.
24.5million in training 9,000 engineers In North America, Direct Energy increased All our engineers undergo training to reduce and1,200 apprentices.
We additionally overall training per person from 10 hours safety risks in customer homes.
Despite improved the skills of over 20 apprentices in 2014, to 12 hours on average each this, 46 incidents such as trips and falls inexploration, production and power month.
Furthermore, new call centre occurred compared with 29 in 2014.
In alongside 70 people on the graduate advisers underwent training to increase 2016, we will re-focus our approach to programme.
Following a successful pilot, call-handling efficiency.
customer safety and introduce improved Direct Energy will train 100 new technicians working practices that reduce risk for in 2016 through our partnership with a local Over time, these investments should help our customers.
reduce complaints and improve satisfaction.
ii Our net promoter score NPS which Our lost time injury frequency rate for In order to retain and reward our skilled measures satisfaction, increased in British employees increased from 0.28 per workforce, we are determined to provide fair iii i Gas to 4 from -4 in 2014.
Direct Energy 200,000 hours worked in 2014 to 0.34. remuneration.
That is why in 2015, we made NPS declined from 38 in 2014, to 37.
Ourtotal recordable injury frequency rate the commitment to pay at least the Living also rose to 1.10 per 200,000 hours worked Wage to our people located in the UK.
IMPROVING CUSTOMER SERVICE To create sustainable business success and Across exploration and production, we value in society, it is vital we have a strong Customers are at the heart of our business received three Improvement Notices from moral compass underpinning all of our and we recognise the need to strengthen the UK Health and Safety Executive and relationships and activities.
our relationship with them by improving experienced one significant process safety our service.
Our Business Principles set out the ethical event in Canada, which led to a contractor standards we expect and in 2016, we will British Gas is investing an additional being disabled following exposure to liquid evolve our approach to ethics to ensure 50million between 2015 and 2017 nitrogen while filling a storage tank.
This we obtain the highest levels of conduct to deliver a better service for residential was up from one Improvement Notice and and compliance.
consumers which will enhance customer zero significant process safety events in service systems, increase resourcing by 2014.
Eight high potential events that could We also work with suppliers to uphold around 10% and deliver extra training to have resulted in a serious incident also ethical, social and environmental standards call centre advisers.
More than 350 advisers occurred in 2015.
Process safety therefore in the products and services we buy.
This have already been recruited, while training remains a major focus and we have reduces risk while increasing transparency and rose 24% towards our aim of 30% more created a three-year improvement plan reliability in our supply chain.
In 2015, 46 training days by the end of 2016 compared that will strengthen employee leadership potentially higher risk suppliers completed to 2013.
This brings the average monthly and capability alongside enhancing asset assessment on these issues, resulting in training hours per person to 14, up from management and assurance processes.
an average supplier risk score of 54 low 11 in 2014. risk.
This is better than the multi-industry average of 42 medium risk and marks an improvement from 51 low risk in 2014.
British Gas invested Where suppliers receive a medium or high risk rating, we collaborate to raise standards 24.5million in training by creating corrective action plans.
9,000 engineers and i Unit has been updated from 100,000 hours worked to 1,200 apprentices.
better align with industry standards.
2014 performance has been restated to align with the updated unit.
ii British Gas and Direct Energy NPS is not comparable due to different methodologies.
iii Restated due to changes in methodology which nowfocuses on experiences at the end of key customerjourneys.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 24 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Supporting changing customer needs Energy can be complex but we are making it easier to understand and control, while ensuring support for those most in need.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE Every household receives energy bills but We offer competitively priced tariffs to We also recognise our role to help not enough people understand their costs win and retain customers while providing government support vulnerable people or how to reduce them.
At the same time, innovative products and services that satisfy with their energy needs.
We are working changing and challenging financial their changing needs.
This gives customers across sectors and have formed strategic circumstances mean some people greater understanding and control over partnerships that deliver invaluable debt struggleto pay for their energy.
energy, helping them use less of what we advice and financial support for those sell and lower their energybills.
OUR PROGRESS for more informed choices that can reduce Providing competitive prices Helping those who need support bills.
As a result, we are prioritising the We regularly review our energy prices to Over 3,000 customers in North America were roll-out to our vulnerable customers.
In the UK supported through our Neighbor-to-Neighbor since November 2014, wholesale gas prices bill assistance programme in Texas, while Using smart meter data, Direct Energy was have reduced by 41% but as most of our 1.9 million vulnerable customer households able to launch North Americas first online energy is bought in advance to help protect were helped in the UK.
energy insights dashboard, Direct Your customers from pricing volatility, our cost of Energy.
Similar to British Gas my energy Our mandatory contributions in the UK gas has reduced by 24%.
Wholesale energy tool, energy use is shown by categories included one-off payments of 140 to over costs make up 40% of the average British such as appliance and compares it to 650,000 vulnerable customers as part of Gas residential dual fuel bill and was offset similar households, highlighting where the Warm Home Discount scheme.
Through to some extent by other rising external savings might be made.
the delivery of energy efficiency products via costs, such as distribution charges ECO, those most in need will also save an Hive is also a powerful tool for giving greater alongside social and environmental taxes.
estimated 400 million on their energy bills.
Over 300,000 smart British Gas was, however, able to reduce 11.6 million in mandatory contributions thermostats have been sold in the UK to household gas prices three times since for customers and non-customers were control heating and hot water remotely, with the start of 2015 and was the only major additionally made to the independent 58% of Hive users saying it has helped save supplier to do so.
The average residential charity, the British Gas Energy Trust.
This money on their energy bills.
Hive is now dual fuel bill was cut by 14%, bringing the assisted over 24,500 people with household available in the Republic of Ireland while average daily charge for energy to around debt advice and grants as well as funding a new family of products including smart 3.14.
Our post-tax profit margin for our debt advisers at organisations like Shelter, plugs, lights and sensors, are being UK residential customers was 5.6% in 2015.
British Gas strategic charity partner.
introduced throughout 2016, enabling more To help reduce bills, we continued to of the home to be controlled via an app.
Through partnership with National Energy advocate for a more cost-effective UK Action, we also developed targeted fuel We have also sold nearly 200,000 smart energy policy.
This included engagement poverty strategies for communities across thermostats in North America, helping with government on our Energy Choices the UK.
Direct Energy customers save up to 20% report, which outlines alternative pathways on their energy bills.
by prioritising lower cost technologies, Overall, we spent more than 220 million setting cost-effective carbon targets while supporting those most in need during 2015, To further develop our leadership maintaining support for vulnerable people.
mainly through mandatory government capabilities in cutting-edge products, we programmes in the UK.
acquired AlertMe, an energy management Investing for smarter energy use and services company and have With the most customers in the UK, British established a global Connected Home Gas is leading the mandatory smart meter 1.9 million vulnerable business in which we will invest 500 million roll-out, having installed 2.5 million in over the next five years.
Panoramic Power homes and businesses since 2009.
This customer households were also acquired to lead the future is around 70% of all smart meters installed were helped in the UK.
i development of wireless sensors that in the UK.
Smart meters enable accurate identify ways businesses can reduce billing and help customers explore their operating costs.
energy use and costs in real-time, allowing i Based on Department of Energy & Climate Change quarterly statistics, September 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 25 Securing energy to fuel society The world of energy is changing and we must adapt to it by sourcing and optimising energy supplies that satisfy the changing needs of our customers.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE Energy is an enabler of societys progress Gas remains an important part of our We will continue to concentrate on serving and global demand for it is expected to rise strategy because it is one of the most our customers energy needs by expanding i by nearly a third by 2040.
With millions of affordable energy sources for heating trading capabilities while taking a leading people increasingly reliant on energy, we homes and running businesses, is the role in creating a new model for generating have an ongoing responsibility to source, lowest carbon fossil fuel and backs-up and supplying energy through our new generate and supply competitively priced intermittent renewable energy.
We continue to be a sizeable producer Together with our innovative products and We must evolve how we do this to create of gas and oil.
We are, however, reducing services see page 24, this approach will stronger energy propositions that meet the the scale of our oil and gas E&P business improve energy security by diversifying needs of our customers, the environment to reflect the conclusions of our strategic supply and reducingdemand.
and makes us a more resilient business.
review to rebalance the Groups investments in favour of our customer-facing activities.
OUR PROGRESS Owning and operating wind farms no Evolving our energy supply Revolutionising energy supply longer fit with our customer-focused In 2015, we produced 78.6mmboe of We have established a new global fide&P strategy which is why we will instead gas and oil.
We increased our focus on business and expect to invest 700 million continue to be an enabler of other purchasing more competitive and diverse over the next five years to revolutionise the operators wind projects, committing to energy supplies on the global market.
traditional, centralised way of generating take electricity through a limited number In 2016 and beyond, we will concentrate and supplying energy.
on significantly growing our presence in We will give large scale energy users such LNG which is forecast to account for a To reduce risks associated with increased as businesses and hospitals, the ability growing share of the worlds energy mix.
energy trading, particularly in respect of to take control of their energy and use it LNG, PPAs and entry into new markets, we The development of natural gas from shale more intelligently to reduce, generate and have sought to maintain rigorous controls could also strengthen energy security in the manage it themselves.
fide&P will bring in contracting to ensure future partners UK and throughout 2015, we continued to together flexible, local generation with meet the legal standards we expect.
explore its potential through our 25% stake storage and renewable technologies in the Bowland exploration licence operated alongside energy efficiency measures At the end of 2015, our overall commitment by Cuadrilla Resources.
Despite plans to and smart building management systems.
to secure gas and power for customers mitigate possible adverse impacts on the All of these technologies will be managed totalled over 50 billion.
local community such as noise and traffic, from a smart energy control centre to help planning consent was refused in July.
Our keep costs and carbon emissions as low partners have since appealed the decision as possible.
We have taken the decision and we await the outcome in 2016. fide&P will also develop new propositions to sell our 245MW wind farm Alternatives to fossil fuels are important and technologies that reduce demand on as we transition to a lower carbon future.
the grid and reward customers with lower We hold a 20% stake in the UKs existing bills for shifting use away from peak times.
nuclear power fleet and while we have been Together with battery storage and smarter pivotal in shaping the UKs wind industry grids, this will help energy use become through our role as an early developer, we more efficient, reduce consumption and have taken the decision to sell our 245MW improve future energy security.
wind farm capacity by the end of 2017. i International Energy Agency, 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 26 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS Reducing carbon emissions to combat climate change Fossil fuels contribute to climate change so we are helping customers reduce theircarbon footprint while driving down emissions across our business.
THE ISSUE AND OUR ROLE Energy is essential to the lives of individuals, We fully support climate change targets With over 90% of our carbon emissions families and businesses but we recognise setat a national and international level by coming from customers, empowering them that fossil fuels are also the biggest helping customers cut carbon emissions to reduce emissions is vital.
We are well contributor to climate change: one of from their energy consumption alongside placed to do this through market-leading societys greatest global challenges.
those generated by our business.
products and services that give customers greater choice and control over their energy.
OUR PROGRESS Our commitment to disclose and effectively 28MWp.
This was up from 19MWp the Our UK fuel mix of power sold % manage risks related to climate change previous year, following the acquisition of were again recognised in 2015 by CDP, an residential solar capabilities in July 2014.
2 international non-governmental organisation Inthe UK, British Gas exited residential 11 NGO, who ranked Centrica as a leader solar due to challenging market conditions in disclosure and awarded us a B for and will now focus on large scale solar for 33 i performance.
This was down from an A businesses.
Combined, installations rose 23 the previous year, due mainly to reduced low from 7MWp to 34MWp across 697 UK carbon nuclear and renewable generation.
Enabling customers to cut carbon Balancing demand on the grid also reduces 31 impact from fossil fuels because less energy Our expected 1.2 billion investment over needs to be generated to meet peak the next five years in Connected Home demand.
In 2015, Direct Energy launched seepage 24 and fide&P see page 25, can Gas Coal Reduce Your Use Rewards where help our customers lower their emissions Nuclear Other customers save 5% on their bill by lowering through greater insights and control over Renewable usage during a peak event.
In 2016, British how they use and generate energy.
Gas expects to roll-out its own Time-of-Use Cost-effective energy efficiency measures tariff to reduce consumption at peak hours.
In 2015, the carbon intensity of our power such as insulation, are also delivered as part generation fell by 24% to 117gCO2 kWh.
In total, we calculate that we have helped of ECO.
During 2015, we installed 149,000 This surpasses our target of 260gCO2 kWh our UK customers save over 22mtCO2e measures through ECO which will generate by 2020, largely due to reduced gas since 2008, the majority of which was lifetime savings of 2.8mtCO2e.
generation, stronger nuclear generation through mandated government schemes.
Furthermore, we help customers reduce and divestments made in 2014.
We have Reducing our own emissions reliance on fossil fuels by investing in now revised our target to 200gCO2 kWh alternative energy sources.
Solar energy We now emit nearly 70% less carbon for by 2020, which better reflects our business.
is growing in North America and during every pound of revenue raised than in 2010, The carbon intensity of all power sold to 2015, Direct Energy installed solar panels having gradually shifted away from being ourUK customers during 2014 15, was in 2,164 homes and businesses, generating a large scale energy producer.
oneof the lowest among major UK energy suppliers at 240gCO2 kWh: well below the iii UK average of 360gCO2 kWh.
Our carbon emissions Meanwhile, the internal carbon footprint 2015 2014 of our core business was 79,096tCO2e.
This meant we exceeded our target to ii Total carbon emissions 4,393,016tCO2e 5,587,885tCO2e reduce emissions by 20% since 2007, ii Scope 1 4,272,477tCO2e 5,452,079tCO2e achieving a total reduction of 27%.
ii Scope 2 120,539tCO2e 135,806tCO2e Total carbon intensity by revenue 157tCO2e m 190tCO2e m i Based on 2014 data.
We report on an equity basis with practices drawn from WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, IPIECAs Petroleum ii Restated due to availability of improved data.
Industry Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 27 The Group takes its obligations to pay Our view on taxation and collect the correct amount of tax very seriously.
Responsibility for tax governance and strategy lies with the Group Chief Financial Officer, with the oversight of the Board and the Audit Committee.
OUR APPROACH TAXES PAID IN THE UK TAXES PAID OUTSIDE THE UK Wherever we do business in the world we We maintain a transparent and constructive Outside the UK the Groups businesses take great care to ensure we fully comply relationship with HMRC in the UK.
This aresubject to corporate income tax rates with all of our obligations to pay or collect includes regular, open dialogue on issues inexcess of the UK Corporation Tax Rate taxes and to meet local reporting and ofsignificance to HMRC and Centrica.
Ourrelationship with fiscal authorities in other countries where we do business A more detailed explanation of the way the We fully disclose information on ownership, isconducted on the same principles.
Groups tax liability is calculated and the transactions and financing structures to the timing of cash payments is provided on our relevant tax authorities.
Our cross-border We carefully manage the tax risks and costs website at centrica.
tax reporting reflects the underlying inherent in every commercial transaction, in commercial reality of our business.
the same way as any other cost.
However, we do not enter into artificial arrangements We ensure that income and costs, in order to avoid taxation nor to defeat the includingcosts of financing operations, stated purpose of tax legislation.
areappropriately recognised on a fair and sustainable basis across all countries where We actively engage in consultation with the Group has a business presence.
We government on tax policy where we believe understand that this is not an exact science we are in a position as a Group to provide and we engage openly with tax authorities valuable commercial insight.
Tax charge v. cash tax by country Breakdown of UK adjusted tax charge Statutory tax rates on profits 2015 m m Group activities % Adjusted UK UK supply of energy and services 20 tax charge 74 98 UK oil and gas production 50 75 74 121 Deferred taxes and 106 Norway oil and gas production 78 associates taxes 47 Netherlands oil and gas production 50 2015 taxes to be United States supply of energy repaid in 2016 66 106 andservices 35 130 Canada supply of energy and 2014 taxes paid 28 in 2015 services and oil and gas production 26 Republic of Ireland supply UK tax charge Taxes paid of energy and services 12.5 in 2015 121 UK cash tax paid As at December 2015.
Mainland Europe tax charge 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Mainland Europe cash tax paid 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 North America tax charge North America cash tax paid Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 28 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Business Review This review reports on our performance READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS UNIT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ON during 2015 under the business unit CENTRICA.
reporting structure in place at the time.
In January 2016, we announced fundamental changes to the way that Centrica will be organised.
Our new reporting segments, aligned to support the delivery of our strategy, are set out on page 13.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 29 British Gas: Operating profit British Gas: Residential energy accounts 809m 14.7m 2014: 823m 2014: 14.8m British Gas The report is helping to improve levels CONNECTED HOME, INNOVATION of customer satisfaction and the overall AND SMART METERING perception of British Gas, with a 21 NPS Innovative customer offerings, including improvement for customers engaging with connected home products, are increasingly the report.
We are also trialling my energy important to improve customer satisfaction live which allows customers to access and retention.
We have established a many of the in-home display functions significant position in connected homes in on their smart phone or tablet device.
the UK and in March 2015 we completed the acquisition of AlertMe, the provider of BRITISH GAS RESIDENTIAL the technical platform that underpins our British Gas Residential operating profit existing connected home activity, including increased, reflecting a 5% increase in our in-house developed Hive smart average gas consumption despite the thermostat.
The acquisition means warmest December on record, with more Centrica has ownership and control British Gas operating profit fell 2% in normal UK temperatures on average in the over a scalable technology platform, 2015, with an operating loss in British Gas year compared to a mild 2014.
In addition, software development capability and Business BGB caused by issues resulting costs associated with delivery of the ECO data analytics, to enable us to provide from the implementation of a new billing and programme were lower, predominantly a full end-to-end customer experience.
customer relationship management CRM reflecting improved efficiency and the system mostly offset by an increase in In July 2015, we launched Hive Active phasing of expenditure on the programme TM British Gas Residential BGR operating Heating 2, the next generation of our as we accelerated delivery in 2014 to ensure profit, with consumption returning to more smart thermostat.
We have now sold over we met our obligations under Phase 1 of normal levels following a mild 2014.
In a 300,000 smart thermostats in the UK, the programme.
We have helped nearly competitive environment we are focused on providing us with the largest installed 500,000 households under the ECO delivering increased efficiencies, improved base of connected thermostats.
customer service and innovative customer 80% of Hive customers say they have Our residential energy customer accounts propositions across British Gas.
recommended the product, and 42% fell by less than 1% over the year, in a of Hive customers who also have one of CUSTOMER SERVICE competitive market environment.
We are our energy or services products say they adapting to the changing market with Improving our levels of customer service feel more positive about British Gas as a competitive fixed price and collective switch is a key focus and in April we announced result.
In early 2016, we launched a range offerings and our fixed-price Sainsburys we were dedicating a further 50million of connected home products in the UK, tariff delivered particularly strong sales, of resources over three years in serving our including Hive Window or Door sensor, TM generating new to brand customers.
In residential energy customers, to help achieve Hive Active Plug and Hive Motion Sensors.
February 2016, we announced a further cut our goal of delivering excellent service.
We We have a strong development pipeline in our residential gas prices, becoming the completed recruitment of more than 350 of further innovative products planned only major UK energy supplier to cut prices additional customer service agents by the for 2016, including Hive Active Lights and three times since the start of 2015.
The end of September, which enabled us to our connected boiler, which is currently average British Gas customer bill is around provide resilient service levels in the fourth on commercial trial.
100 less now than at the start of 2015. quarter and our residential energy contact Smart meters will bring significant benefits centre NPS increased by nine points over to customers, including an end to estimated BRITISH GAS SERVICES 2015, to 28.
In Services, our engineer NPS bills, greater ability to monitor and reduce The sales environment remains challenging increased to a record high of 70 for the consumption and simpler and faster for our UK services business, with a year.
Our nationwide network of around switching between suppliers, helping to continued shift in customer demand 8,000 highly trained service engineers with improve trust in the UK energy industry.
towards cheaper on-demand and home trusted access to customers homes remains We have now installed more than two emergency products.
Against this a competitive advantage for British Gas.
We million residential smart meters in the backdrop, we are focused on improving have also seen a consistent improvement UK, significantly more than any of our sales performance through enhancing the during 2015 in our brand reputation.
competitors, as we scale the business to online journey and the development of new Providing customers with the tools to ensure we are fully mobilised for delivery propositions to better meet this changing interact and engage through digital channels of the mandated roll-out by 2020.
In the fourth quarter is increasingly important, to improve currently trialling smart meters to our of 2015 we launched our new, simpler customer satisfaction and to help reduce pre-payment customers, with around Homecare product range and although costs, and we are focused on transforming 50,000 customers participating in the trial accounts declined during the second half the digital customer experience.
We have and a full commercial launch is planned for of 2015, the net rate of loss was reduced made good progress in developing our the second half of 2016.
Over 800,000 of compared to the first half.
The market for digital platforms and during the year we our smart meter customers now regularly central heating installations is also proving launched a new simplified homemove receive our unique smart energy report, my challenging, with market demand changing customer journey, which has helped energy, which provides a comprehensive towards simpler and faster installations.
increase retention of customers moving analysis of their energy consumption.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 30 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Business Review Direct Energy: Operating profit Direct Energy: Residential energy accounts continued 328m 3.0m 2014: 150m 2014: 3.3m British Gas continued Direct Energy Reflecting this, in the second half of 2015 DIRECT ENERGY BUSINESS we launched new propositions, such as Direct Energy Business reported a straight swaps, targeted at these significant increase in operating profit in customer segments.
2015, even after taking into account the absence of the one-off Polar Vortex costs British Gas Services operating profit fell in 2014.
This reflects higher margins on by 5%, with the impact of lower contract contracts sold from 2014 onwards, lower holdings partly offset by a continued focus amortisation costs related to the Hess on cost management.
Costs are a key Energy Marketing acquisition and a more area of focus and we are committed to balanced business between power and managing our cost base to improve gas.
In addition, natural gas pipeline and efficiency and effectiveness.
In support storage capacity contracts were utilised of this, we made changes to our defined to deliver strong optimisation performance benefit pension schemes, resulting in during periods of cold weather in the first a 23million credit.
Direct Energy delivered significantly higher quarter of the year.
Much colder BRITISH GAS BUSINESS than normal weather at the start of 2015 Overall gas and electricity volumes delivered British Gas Business was affected by benefited the business, as a more stable to customers were slightly down compared issues following the migration of customer physical infrastructure, in addition to market to 2014 due to a warm December.
However, accounts and associated data onto a redesign and management action meant Direct Energy maintained its position as new billing and CRM system from multiple we did not see a repeat of the additional the largest C&I gas supplier and the second legacy systems, which had a significant network system charges resulting from the largest C&I power supplier in the United impact on customer service, including polar vortex in 2014.
Unit margins on new C&I gas and difficulties in producing timely customer was partially offset by un-seasonally warm power sales have remained broadly at the bills.
To help resolve these issues we weather in the fourth quarter of 2015.
In levels achieved in 2014, with increased recruited additional resource and customer addition, our C&I business benefited from margins on power sales and lower margins service levels have begun to improve.
higher unit margins on contracts sold in on gas sales.
Complaints in the second half were down prior years and our residential energy During 2015 we continued to enhance our 9% compared to the first half of the year, business benefited from acquiring higher online customer experience, through the while unresolved complaints fell by 50% consuming customers.
However, the launch of MyAccount.
This online platform in comparison to the peak in early 2015. services business reported an operating simplifies online bill payment and account loss, primarily due to ongoing investments All our business customer accounts have management.
We are currently experiencing in residential solar.
been migrated onto the new system and over 14,500 MyAccount log-ins each month.
billing performance is now better than In November, we announced we were We continue to look for opportunities under the old legacy system, with cash combining our residential energy and to enhance our offerings to our C&I collection continuing to be a key area of services activities, organising the business customers.
Through our relationship with focus.
The new system is enabling us to around our customer segments.
This will SolarCity, we completed a number of digitise the customer journey, allowing us allow us to develop a more sustainable commercial solar installations for customers to target further improvements in customer residential business, improving commercial across the US.
In November, we completed service at reduced cost.
performance and delivering cost efficiency.
the acquisition of Panoramic Power with We also made good progress in building the The number of business energy supply whom we have had a successful Direct Energy brand across North America.
points fell by 11% during 2015, with our partnership since 2014.
The acquisition During the year we joined a range of focus on resolving the billing issues for provides Centrica with leading capabilities well-known brands to launch Plenti, the existing customers limiting the opportunity in energy management technology and first United States-based coalition loyalty for new sales in a competitive market.
In data science expertise, with around 25,000 programme, and we re-launched our Direct addition, the business incurred temporary sensors deployed across 700 sites in 30 Energy and First Choice Power brands in increases in operating costs to help resolve countries, and enables us to offer enhanced residential energy.
the system issues and an increase in the and innovative propositions to customers bad debt charge.
As a result, the business which allow them to better understand reported an operating loss in the year.
It will also help advance our Distributed Energy & Power Business services and distributed energy offering in North America.
are key sources of differentiation and will help us retain existing customers and acquire new ones, as well as providing growth opportunities in their own right.
We have good capabilities in this space, and will continue to develop propositions for our C&I customers through the newly established Distributed Energy & Power business unit.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 31 Bord Gis Energy: Operating profit 30m 2014: 7m Bord Gis Energy DIRECT ENERGY RESIDENTIAL We remain focused on delivering high levels of customer service and in 2015 Direct Energy Residential operating profit our right first time metric increased by increased in 2015.
We also continue to reflects the absence of polar vortex costs drive digital customer interactions, helping incurred in 2014. improve the customer experience and The number of customer accounts declined reducing costs, and 21% of new customer by 223,000, reflecting competitive market acquisitions in 2015 were obtained pressures in the US North East and the through digital channels, an increase of continued impact of the Energy Consumer 2 percentage points in comparison to 2014.
Protection Act ECPA in Ontario.
Against Cost efficiency is also a key focus and in this backdrop, we continue to build our 2015 we delivered a 2% year-on-year capabilities to deliver enhanced and reduction in residential energy cost to innovative customer propositions, including serve per customer.
the bundling of energy and services Bord Gis Energy performed strongly in products as we aim to retain and attract 2015, ahead of its acquisition case, and DIRECT ENERGY SERVICES the highest value customers.
In 2015, reported an operating profit of 30million Direct Energy Services reported an 46% of residential customers acquired also in the first full reporting year since its operating loss of 34million in 2015, took a services protection plan or smart acquisition in June 2014.
Employee compared to a 4million like-for-like thermostat, up from 11% in 2014.
We engagement has remained high since the operating profit in 2014, which excludes the also began to execute on our strategy of acquisition.
Having introduced a more robust contribution from the Ontario home services attracting higher consuming customers.
procedure for measuring contact NPS in business, which was sold in October 2014. the first quarter, we recorded an overall The loss in 2015 reflects an accelerated We continue to offer innovative products NPS of 16 for the year including an NPS investment in Direct Energy Solar.
and have now sold nearly 200,000 smart of 66 in our boiler servicing department.
thermostats in North America, enabling We continue to grow our services annuity our customers to reduce and better control Bord Gis Energy was the first energy business and the number of contract their energy consumption.
Our Direct Your provider to announce price reductions in relationships across North America Energy insight tool, launched in July 2015, the Republic of Ireland in both January and increased by 12% and is now over one allows customers to itemise their energy September 2015, with residential gas and million.
During the year we re-priced our usage by major household appliance.
electricity price cuts totalling 6% and 4.5% protection plan offerings to better reflect the In addition, we launched Reduce Your respectively.
These reductions positioned us costs and risks associated with the portfolio Use Rewards which incentivises customers with the cheapest standard dual fuel offering of product offerings, while maintaining a to use less energy in peak demand periods.
Reflecting competitive offer to our customers.
Our In July 2015, we launched Direct Your this, the business returned to residential residential new construction business Plan, a personalised service enabling energy account growth in both gas and performed well, as did our franchise residential customers to build their own electricity, the first time this has grown since operations as we expanded our reach energy plan from a number of options such 2011, while the number of multi-product to 78 new locations and now serve 650 as length of contract, energy type, energy customers increased by 30% during 2015. in total.
The combining of our residential efficiency tools, reward programmes and In addition, the number of business energy activities into fide Home will help us to home services.
service supply points also increased by achieve our goal of building long-term 16% to 36,000 in the year.
Bord Gis Energy is also leveraging Our Energy Supply & Services Centricas expertise in deregulated energy markets, having launched the first residential businesses in the UK and North fixed price tariff in the Republic of Ireland America will share a common TM and also introduced Hive Active Heating.
Early take up has been positive.
operating model and be In power generation, our flexible 445MW supported by common Whitegate gas-fired station operated ahead operating functions.
of expectations and delivered high reliability, protecting our customers from power price volatility during peak times in a highly vertically integrated market.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 32 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Business Review Centrica Energy: Operating profit Centrica Energy: UK power generated continued 255m 19.3TWh 2014: 648m 2014: 22.1TWh Restated see page 1 for details.
Centrica Energy In Europe, total production was down Our gas midstream business delivered a 1%.
Norwegian production increased by strong trading performance in the second 16% reflecting consistently high production half of the year, including recognising a from Kvitebjorn and Statfjord and a first 24million gain following the settlement contribution from the large-scale Valemon of a disputed long-term gas field contract.
project in the North Sea, which came This more than offset a first half operating on-stream in January 2015.
UK and loss, following the optimisation of a number Netherlands production decreased by of flexible gas contracts for value during 14%, reflecting the natural decline of a period of falling prices in 2014, with a producing fields and an extended consequential impact on 2015.
In LNG, maintenance shutdown at Morecambe.
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC issued authorisation in April 2015 In the Americas, total production decreased to allow Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC 2%, with the benefit from new wells to construct and operate the fifth train acquired and drilled in Canada in 2014 Centrica Energy delivered good operational expansion at their LNG facility in Louisiana.
largely offsetting natural decline in the performance in 2015, with higher than At the end of June 2015 the project received portfolio.
Trinidad and Tobago production planned levels of E&P production and a Non-Free Trade Agreement licence from was down 5% compared to 2014. nuclear generation.
However, the business the Department of Energy DOE, and with reported a significantly reduced operating We have made significant progress in a positive final investment decision now profit and recognised post-tax impairments refocusing our E&P business.
A number having been made on the project Centrica and onerous provisions totalling 1,950 of initiatives have enabled us to deliver cost expects to take delivery of its first cargo million on E&P and power generation efficiencies, including management action under its US export contract in late 2018 assets, predominantly reflecting the impact to renegotiate contractor rates, headcount or in 2019.
We continue to increase our of falling wholesale commodity prices, reductions in support roles and working with capabilities and presence in global LNG and spark spreads and forecast capacity licence partners and operators to deliver have completed a number of FOB cargoes, auction prices.
Against this backdrop we savings.
European unit cash production including our first delivery to South America, made significant progress in repositioning costs were down 6% compared to 2014. and have secured further cargoes scheduled the business, achieving reductions in both In the Americas, unit cash production costs for delivery in 2016.
E&P cash production costs and capital reduced by 13%, in part reflecting reduced Overall, Gas operating profit fell 73%, expenditure, and the E&P business was Canadian royalties as a result of lower North predominantly reflecting lower achieved oil free cash flow positive in the year.
We have increased and gas prices and a reduced contribution our target reduction in lifting and other cash GAS from the gas midstream business.
We also production costs in 2016 to 15%, or recognised exceptional post-tax impairments Our E&P business delivered good 150million, compared to 2014. of 1,477million relating to our E&P assets, production performance, with total gas and liquids production down 1% to 78.6mmboe.
Organic capital expenditure in 2015 was as a result of declining oil and gas prices.
Gas production was down 3% and liquids 728million, 33% lower than in 2014.
This POWER production was up 7%.
included spend on the large-scale Cygnus Our share of nuclear power generation project, which is expected to achieve first for the year was up 8%, reflecting good gas in the first half of 2016.
In the current reliability from the fleet.
The four reactors price environment we have acted to We have clarified the role of at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool power stations minimise other capital expenditure, including E&P in the portfolio to were all operational in the year, albeit at exploration.
We are focusing on maintaining reduced load, having been temporarily and optimising production from our assets provide diversity of cash flows shut-down in the second half of 2014 and on completing committed development and balance sheet strength.
following the identification of an issue on projects.
These projects include Cygnus and one boiler spine at Heysham 1 in 2014.
Maria, on which we took a final investment A programme of cooling modifications decision during 2015 and which is due to was successfully implemented during 2015, produce first oil in 2018.
We expect capital and temperature restrictions have now been expenditure to be around 500million lifted.
This means that three of the reactors in 2016.
Centrica Energys proven and can now reach 100% output, with further probable 2P reserves of 528mmboe at the work planned in 2016 at Heysham 1 to end of 2015 were 10% lower than in 2014, increase power.
with positive revisions to reserves in Norway and Canada partially offsetting the impact of production during the year.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 33 Centrica Storage: Operating profit 37m 2014: 29m Centrica Storage In thermal power generation, market spark In July 2015 Centrica Storage received spreads and our plants load factors consent from the Oil and Gas Authority remained low during the year.
Gas-fired to increase the reservoir size of Rough volumes were down 37%, which also by 4.5TWh.
As a result, the capacity of reflects an unplanned outage at Langage in Rough has been partially recovered and the first half.
In December 2015, the second a proportion of the cushion gas associated UK power capacity auction took place for with this was sold in the second half of the 2019 20 capacity, clearing at 18.0 kW year.
Operating profit was slightly higher year.
Our Humber and Langage plants were in 2015 than in 2014, with the sale of this successful in the auction, as were all the cushion gas more than offsetting the nuclear reactors in which we have a 20% negative impact of the pressure limitation equity interest.
Humber and Langage on Rough.
remain core assets, alongside Brigg, which In September 2015, the CMA announced is now operating as a distributed energy a consultation on the Rough Undertakings, Seasonal gas price spreads fell to asset and Peterborough, where we have following a request from Centrica Storage historically low levels over the second half of the potential to make a similar conversion.
in light of the operating pressure limitations 2015, with an abundance of flexible supply Killingholme will close in March 2016 once of the Rough wells.
The final report is across Europe, and they remain at these its Supplemental Balancing Reserve SBR expected in April 2016. low levels creating a challenging outlook for contract ends, while Barry will only continue the Rough asset.
It was announced in April to operate if profitability can be secured in Against a challenging external environment, 2015 that all SBUs for the 2015 16 storage short-term flexibility markets.
Centrica Storage has completed a year had been sold at 21.1p, only marginally reorganisation of the business, allowing it Our wind assets delivered increased higher than the 20.0p achieved in 2014 15, to focus on health and safety, efficiency and wind yields but generation volumes fell which was the lowest SBU price since cost control, while maintaining the integrity by 3%, reflecting the disposal of our share Centrica acquired the Rough asset in 2003. of the ageing Rough asset.
in the Barrow offshore wind farm in In March 2015, Centrica Storage December 2014. announced that during a routine inspection Total Power operating profit increased by of Rough a potential technical issue had We do not see Storage as a 40%.
Nuclear profit was up, with the higher been discovered.
As a result, we decided growth option in the current volumes and good cost management more to limit the maximum operating pressure of than offsetting the impact of lower market the Rough wells to 3,000 psi, the equivalent environment.
The operating loss from our of limiting the stock in the Rough asset gas-fired fleet was broadly flat.
The highest level reached in profit increased, with 2014 including net 2014 was 41.1TWh.
Reflecting the reduced negative one-off impacts of 17million maximum operating pressure, Centrica resulting from development project Storage has reduced the number of SBUs write-downs partially offset by profits on it will sell for the 2016 17 storage year to disposal.
Midstream profit was lower in 340 million, from 455 million in 2015 16, comparison to a strong performance in 2014. and in February 2016 announced that it had sold over 80% of this lower capacity.
We also recognised an exceptional post-tax It is anticipated that the limitation will remain impairment of 372million relating to our in place at least until the testing and nuclear investment and 101million relating verification works are completed between to our Spalding contract asset, which September 2016 and December 2016. includes an onerous contract provision of 70million.
These arose primarily as a result of declining baseload power, clean spark spread and forecast capacity auction prices.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 34 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW Group Financial Review GROUP REVENUE Centrica has delivered a resilient financial Group revenue decreased by 5% to 28.0 performance, with solid 2015 adjusted billion 2014: 29.4 billion.
British Gas gross revenue fell 4% to 12.4 billion, primarily as earnings despite the challenge of falling a result of lower average sales prices reflecting the lower price environment and wholesale oil and gas prices.
a lower number of business energy supply points.
Direct Energy gross revenue fell by Group revenue Adjusted operating profit 11%, also reflecting the impact of lower gas prices on energy unit tariffs, and the impact of the disposal of the Ontario home services 28.0bn 1,459m business in October 2014.
Bord Gis Energy gross revenue increased by 87% 2014: 29.4bn 2014: 1,657m restated reflecting 12 months of ownership in 2015 compared to six months in 2014.
Centrica Adjusted effective tax rate Adjusted earnings Energy gross revenue fell by 6%, primarily reflecting lower achieved prices in the current commodity environment, partially 26% 863m offset by increased midstream revenue.
Centrica Storage gross revenue increased 2014: 30% 2014: 903m restated by 5% with the sale of cushion gas more than offsetting the impact of lower seasonal Adjusted basic EPS Dividend per share gas price spreads and reduced capacity at the Rough asset.
OPERATING PROFIT 17.2p 12.0p All profit and earnings figures now include 2014: 18.0p restated 2014: 13.5p fair value depreciation related to our Strategic Investments in Venture and Adjusted operating Net debt Nuclear, which was previously excluded cash flow from adjusted measures.
Throughout the statement, reference is made to a number of different profit measures, which are 2,253m 4,747m shown on page 35.
British Gas operating profit fell 2%.
Within this, residential energy supply operating Statutory loss Basic earnings per share profit increased, reflecting higher gas volumes due to more normal weather conditions, and lower costs, including those associated with delivery of the ECO 747 m 14.9 p programme.
Residential services profit fell 2014: 1,012 m 2014: 20.2 p by 5%, with the impact of lower accounts and inflationary cost increases partially offset by cost efficiency measures, including a 23 million one-time credit relating to the implementation of a Pension Increase Exchange PIE for our defined benefit scheme members.
Business energy supply and services reported an operating loss, primarily reflecting a higher bad debt charge and temporary additional operating costs relating to the implementation of a new billing and CRM system.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 35 Direct Energy operating profit increased prices.
Power profitability increased by securities.
The taxation charge reduced to significantly, with no repeat of additional 40% with higher output from the nuclear 286 million 2014: 375 million and after polar vortex related costs incurred in 2014 fleet, the absence of net one-off negative taking account of tax on joint ventures and the realisation of higher margins on impacts of 17 million on renewables in and associates the adjusted tax charge business energy supply contracts.
This 2014 and a reduced loss on gas-fired was 294 million 2014: 402 million.
The more than offset an operating loss in Direct assets due to a lower depreciation charge resultant adjusted effective tax rate for the Energy Services, as a result of the sale reflecting prior year impairments.
Centrica Group was 26% 2014: 30%, predominantly in 2014 of the Ontario home services Storage operating profit increased by 28%, reflecting a shift in the mix of profit towards business and additional costs related predominantly reflecting additional revenue the lower taxed downstream businesses.
to accelerated investment in our solar from the sale of cushion gas.
An effective tax rate calculation, showing business.
Bord Gis Energy made an the UK and non-UK components, is GROUP FINANCE CHARGE AND TAX operating profit of 30 million in the first shown below: Net finance costs increased slightly to full year since its acquisition.
279 million 2014: 266 million, reflecting Centrica Energy operating profit fell by 61%.
a higher interest cost on bonds following the Gas operating profit fell 73%, predominantly issuance of 1 billion equivalent of hybrid reflecting the impact of lower commodity Operating profit 2015 2014 Exceptional Exceptional items and items and Business certain Statutory Business certain Statutory performance re-measurements result performance re-measurements result Year ended 31 December Notes m m m m m m Adjusted operating profit British Gas 809 823 Direct Energy 328 150 Bord Gis Energy 30 7 Centrica Energy 255 648 Centrica Storage 37 29 Total adjusted operating profit 4 c 1,459 1,657 Interest and taxation on joint ventures and associates 4 c 61 89 Group operating profit loss 4 c 1,398 2,255 857 1,568 2,705 1,137 Net finance cost 8 279 279 266 266 Taxation 9 286 538 252 375 773 398 Profit loss for the year 833 1,717 884 927 1,932 1,005 Attributable to non-controlling interests 30 24 Adjusted earnings 863 903 Group finance charge and tax 2015 2014 UK Non-UK Total UK Non-UK Total Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Adjusted operating profit 1,057 402 1,459 1,196 461 1,657 Share of joint ventures associates interest 53 53 62 62 Net finance cost 156 123 279 152 114 266 Adjusted profit before taxation 848 279 1,127 982 347 1,329 Taxation on profit 74 212 286 125 250 375 Share of joint ventures associates taxation 8 8 27 27 Adjusted tax charge 82 212 294 152 250 402 Adjusted effective tax rate 10% 76% 26% 15% 72% 30% Restated see page 1 for details.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 36 STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW Group Financial Review continued Adjusted operating cash flow 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Net cash flow from operating activities 2,197 1,217 Add back deduct : i Net margin and cash collateral inflow outflow 282 640 Payments relating to exceptional charges 81 125 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 180 138 Defined benefit deficit pension payment 77 81 Adjusted operating cash flow 2,253 2,201 i Net margin and cash collateral inflow outflow includes the reversal of collateral amounts posted when the related derivative contract settles.
The net cash outflow from investing EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS GROUP EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND activities decreased to 611 million 2014: Reflecting all of the above, profit for the year Net exceptional pre-tax charges of 651 million, with lower organic capital fell to 833 million 2014: 927 million and 2,358 million were incurred during the expenditure broadly offsetting reduced after adjusting for losses attributable to year 2014: 1,597 million.
non-controlling interests, adjusted earnings The Group recognised a pre-tax impairment were 863 million 2014: 903 million.
The net cash outflow from financing charge of 1,865 million post-tax 1,396 Adjusted basic earnings per share EPS activities was 1,331 million 2014: 663 million on a number of E&P production was 17.2p 2014: 18.0p.
The impact of lower cash dividends assets, reflecting declining wholesale gas resulting from our decision to rebase the The statutory loss attributable to and oil prices.
dividend by 30% and high take-up of our shareholders for the period was 747 million On power assets, the Group recognised scrip dividend alternative, combined with 2014: loss of 1,012 million.
The reconciling a pre-tax impairment charge of 31 million no repurchase of shares, was more than items between Group profit for the period and an onerous power procurement offset by the impact of a net repayment of from business performance and statutory provision of 70 million relating to our borrowings of 650 million compared to profit are related to exceptional items and finance leased UK gas-fired power station, net inflow from borrowings of 793 million certain re-measurements.
The change reflecting declining forecast capacity market in 2014. compared to 2014 is principally due to auction prices and clean spark spreads.
a net gain from certain re-measurements Reflecting all of the above, the Groups net The Group also recognised a further pre-tax of 129million compared to a net loss debt at the end of 2015 fell to 4,747 million onerous contract provision of 20 million for of 771million in 2014, partially offset by 2014: 5,196 million, which includes cash the Direct Energy wind power procurement higher post-tax exceptional charges of collateral posted or received in support of arrangement.
In addition, the Group 1,846 million 2014: 1,161 million.
recognised a pre-tax impairment charge Group reported a statutory basic EPS of 372 million on its nuclear investment During the year net assets decreased to loss of 14.9p 2014: loss of 20.2p.
due to declining forecast power prices 1,342 million 2014: 3,071 million primarily In addition to the interim dividend of 3.57p and capacity market auction prices.
reflecting the statutory loss in the year.
per share, we propose a final dividend Taxation on these charges generated a of 8.43p, giving a total ordinary dividend ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS credit of 477 million 2014: 436 million, of 12.0p for the year 2014: 13.5p.
On 17 March 2015, the Group gained control and combined with a reduction in net of AlertMe, a UK-based connected homes deferred tax liabilities of 116 million related GROUP CASH FLOW, NET DEBT business that provides innovative energy to the effect of a change in UK tax rates AND BALANCE SHEET management products and services.
Prior and an 81 million impairment charge on Group operating cash flow before to this date, the Group held an interest in E&P deferred tax assets which are no movements in working capital fell to the company and under this transaction longer expected to be recoverable against 2,324million 2014: 2,726 million.
After acquired the remaining share capital.
future tax profits, meant that exceptional working capital adjustments, tax and The purchase consideration, net of cash post-tax charges totalled 1,846 million payments relating to exceptional charges, received for the previously held interest, 2014: 1,161 million.
net cash flow from operating activities was was 44 million.
Adjusted On 30 November 2015, the Group acquired operating cash flow, reconciled to operating Panoramic Power, a leading provider of cash flow in the table above, was up 2%, device-level energy management solutions to 2,253 million 2014: 2,201 million.
for a net purchase consideration of $64million 42 million.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 37 Operating cash flow has been strong and with capital discipline this has allowed the Group to reduce net debt.
RISKS AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CERTAIN RE-MEASUREMENTS The Group enters into a number of The Groups principal risks and uncertainties forward energy trades to protect and are set out on pages 38 to 42. optimise the value of its underlying ACCOUNTING POLICIES production, generation, storage and UK listed companies are required to comply transportation assets and similar capacity with the European regulation to report or off-take contracts, as well as to meet the consolidated financial statements in future needs of our customers.
A number conformity with International Financial of these arrangements are considered to Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by be derivative financial instruments and are the European Union.
required to be fair-valued under IAS 39.
The Group has shown the fair value adjustments on these commodity derivative trades separately as certain re-measurements, as they do not reflect the underlying performance of the business because they are economically related to our upstream assets, capacity off-take contracts or downstream demand, which are typically not fair valued.
The operating loss in the statutory results includes a net pre-tax gain of 103 million 2014: net loss of 1,108million relating to these re-measurements.
The Group recognises the realised gains and losses on these contracts in business performance when the underlying transaction occurs.
The profits arising from the physical purchase and sale of commodities during the year, which reflect the prices in the underlying contracts, are not impacted by these re-measurements.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 5 February 2016, Centrica and its joint venture partner announced the joint sale of the Glens of Foudland, Lynn and Inner Dowsing GLID wind farms.
After repayment of debt associated with GLID and other costs, Centricas net share of the sales proceeds will be approximately 115million, which exceeds the carrying value of the disposed assets.
It is anticipated that the transaction will be completed during March 2016.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 38 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES A summary of our principal risks Our Principal Risks and uncertainties which may impact the delivery of our strategic priorities and Uncertainties is shown below.
i A summary of our principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Risk climate ii 1 Strategy delivery Increased risk 2 External market environment Increased risk 3 Political and regulatory intervention No change in risk 4 Brand, trust and perception No change in risk 5 Business planning, forecasting No change in risk and performance Operational risks Risk climate ii 6 Customer service No change in risk 7 People Increased risk 8 Change management Increased risk 9 Asset development, availability No change in risk and performance 10 Sourcing and supplier management No change in risk 11 Health, safety, environment No change in risk and security 12 Information systems and security No change in risk Compliance risks Risk climate ii 13 Legal, regulatory and ethical Decreased risk standards compliance Financial risks Risk climate ii 14 Financial market Increased risk 15 Credit and liquidity Increased risk 16 Financial processing and reporting No change in risk i This list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.
ii The risk rating is based on our current understanding of our risk environment, but may change over time as our business and the operating environment continue to evolve.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 39 In 2015, we reviewed the design of our This provides an overarching framework, risk universe to ensure a more consistent which includes processes for identifying, and comprehensive approach to risk achieving and managing principal risks identification.
to the achievement of our strategic priorities.
These processes are reinforced through regular performance management and are subject to internal and external review.
Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities The Group is being reorganised to achieve Delivery of the strategy is the primary objective of the Board and 1 Strategy delivery the strategic objectives announced in 2015.
Executive who are directly engaged in regular progress reviews.
Failure to deliver The delivery of this strategy creates additional Centrica strategy.
The Board approves the Group annual plan setting the strategic uncertainties, including in relation to growth direction.
of new businesses, the achievement of We have a clear financial framework to ensure capital is allocated disposals and the realisation of substantial in line with strategy and towards projects best able to deliver expected cost efficiencies.
Where necessary, experienced leaders have been identified and appointed to ensure the delivery of the critical strategic goals.
Strategic definition is provided through clear delegated targets embedded in business plans.
Customer behaviour, downstream competitive Regular analysis undertaken on commodity price fundamentals 2 External market positions and upstream operational results and their potential impact on business plans and expectations.
environment are impacted by: improved energy efficiency, Strategic discussions focused in 2015 on a broad range of external Changes and events competitor activity, climate change, scenarios and sensitivities to underpin the viability of the strategic in the external market commodity price movement, long-term review.
or environment that weather patterns and the general could impact delivery Clarity provided during 2015 on the strategic desire for an integrated economic outlook.
business operating across the value chain, providing a balanced risk portfolio.
Investments in businesses such as Connected Home in response to changing external trends and requirements.
We support climate change targets set at a national and international level by driving down carbon emissions across our business as well as giving customers greater control over their energy through innovative and energy efficient products and services.
We are subject to oversight by a range of Constructive and regular engagement with regulatory bodies such 3 Political and political and regulatory bodies.
UK regulators as the CMA, with a clear commitment to an open, transparent and regulatory continue to impose significant obligations competitive UK energy market that provides choice for consumers.
intervention to implement carbon reduction measures The Safety, Health, Environment, Security and Ethics Committee Changes, intervention and energy affordability.
We await the final SHESEC has oversight of regulatory risk, in addition to the or a failure to influence outcome of the CMA investigation into the discussions within the Board.
change to the political energy markets in the UK and the implications or regulatory Work with regulators to find a better approach to intervention that for our businesses.
agrees clear targets against which we can demonstrate progress.
Consistent engagement with political parties to bring about agreement on critical areas in energy policy.
Our customers are critical to our business NPS and other customer service and brand metrics regularly reviewed 4 Brand, trust and and are at the heart of our strategy.
To grow by Executive Committee and the Board.
perception and evolve our business we must protect and Competitive Focus on providing affordable energy and excellent service through develop our brand, building trust across a positioning and a fair and simplified transparent offering.
protection of the Seek to protect the most vulnerable households through financial Centrica and advice and aid.
Engage with stakeholders to understand their views and identify solutions to help reduce bills and improve transparency.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 40 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities We prioritise how we use our resources Planning processes revised to underpin the strategic objectives 5 Business planning, based on our business plans and forecasts.
for 2016 and beyond, as well as to support the shape of the future forecasting and Failure to accurately plan and forecast could operating model.
performance result in suboptimal decisions and may Board and Executive Committee directly engaged in constructive Business planning, impact expected benefits.
challenge of the planning, forecasting and risk management forecasting, risk processes.
management and achievement of Direct interaction between the strategy, fundamentals, planning anticipated benefits.
and finance teams in arriving at forecasts and plans.
Performance review process designed to provide challenge and a forum for discussion of critical uncertainties in the business planning processes.
The delivery of high quality customer service Providing the optimal service to our customers is discussed regularly 6 Customer service is central to our business strategy.
With the at both Board and Executive Committee meetings.
Failure to provide good entry of new competitors to the market, quality customer Where we are known to have experienced issues, such as the service customers are increasingly likely to switch service.
to our British Gas Business customers, we have ensured a full and supplier if they face an unacceptable focused response.
We must remain at Commitment to continually strengthen our controls for customer the forefront of technological development service and complaints management.
to provide choice and efficiency.
Increased investment in Connected Home to give customers greater visibility, control and engagement over their energy usage.
The change in our business model means People Committee established at the executive level to provide focus 7 People attracting and retaining the right skills to meet on the key talent challenges.
Attraction, retention, evolving priorities is critical.
Similarly, Board level consideration of values, culture and succession matters.
and succession of the maintaining industrial relations across our right people with the Clearly defined people strategy, based on organisational capability businesses becomes more challenging, given right skills in the right and requirements, culture and engagement, equality and wellbeing, our announced level of job losses.
Insufficient role at the right time.
talent development, training and reward and recognition.
capability and capacity in senior management Active engagement with trade unions on restructuring and issues that and key skills will limit our ability to grow and could impact terms and conditions, with clear and open processes execute our strategy at the speed required.
to promote an environment of trust and honesty.
Annual employee engagement survey to identify what we are doing well and where we need to improve.
The scale of change planned in our business Monthly Executive Committee review of the strategy implementation 8 Change is significant.
Any substantial delay or and required change programmes, allow for the open discussion management challenge experienced with the organisational of emerging risks and control requirements.
Execution of change restructuring, system implementation or Progress and issues reported to and discussed by the Board.
programmes and growth of new businesses could adversely business restructuring.
Appointment of a senior executive in 2015 to lead the transformation affect stakeholder expectations.
At the same programme bringing focused attention on benefits realisation, risk time we must maintain our systems of internal prioritisation and milestone tracking.
Focused on our people throughout the change, recognising the need for appropriate capability to be built across the organisation.
Established forums for sharing of good practice as we seek to standardise and simplify the business model.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 41 Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities Failure to invest in the maintenance and The Board takes a direct interest in the oversight of our significant 9 Asset development of our assets could result assets and in ensuring we have the highest operational standards.
development, in underperformance, assets being out Group-wide minimum standards applied to all assets, whether availability and of service or significant safety issues.
operated or non-operated, in order to have confidence in their performance The Company must have confidence in integrity.
Investment, its operational integrity and ability to perform Clarity on future direction of E&P assets provided through the development and and deliver in line with objectives.
strategic review underpinning our continued commitment to integrity of operated this sector.
Capital allocation and investment decisions governed through the Investment Committee chaired by the Chief Executive.
Across our business operations we rely on Board level oversight is provided through the SHESEC, with the 10 Sourcing services provided by third parties.
These executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee also focused and supplier include outsourced activities and third party on this area.
management infrastructure as well as operating All suppliers are required to sign up to our Responsible Procurement Dependency on and responsibility in some assets.
As with policies and procedures.
management of third any contractual relationship there are no parties to deliver the Financial health risk and anti-bribery and corruption due diligence and guarantees that suppliers will always products and services monitoring is implemented in supplier selection and contract renewal comply with legal, regulatory or corporate for which they have processes.
been contracted to Corporate responsibility processes in place for procurement the agreed time, of all goods and services.
Our operations have the potential to result in HSES is considered to be of upmost significance to the Group and 11 Health, safety, personal, environmental or operational harm.
receives Board level oversight through the dedicated SHESEC.
environment and Significant HSES events could also have security HSES Specific HSES executive level committee also established, chaired regulatory, legal, financial, and reputational by the Chief Executive on a monthly basis.
HSES hazards and impacts that would adversely affect some regulations associated Strengthening of the second line of defence assurance capability, or all of our brands and businesses.
with Centricas to provide independent assessments of the controls and processes operations.
in place to manage these risks, to ensure they remain effective and continue to develop.
Investment in capability development and awareness activities to ensure we maintain safe operating practices in all our businesses.
Regular evaluation of security intelligence, operating procedures, crisis management and business continuity plans, to provide assurance of our capability to respond rapidly and appropriately to any incident.
Our substantial customer base and strategic Information systems and cyber security received substantial Board level 12 Information requirement to be at the forefront of focus during 2015 and remain a continued focus for the SHESEC.
systems and technology development, means that it is Detection and investigation of threats and incidents were prioritised, security critical our technology is robust, our systems through further investment in 2015 and by engaging with key Effectiveness, are secure and our data protected.
Sensitive technology partners and suppliers.
availability, integrity data faces the threat of misappropriation from and security of IT Increased focus on employee awareness and training in relation to hackers, viruses and other sources, including systems and data sensitive data and digital information.
essential for Centricas Policies over new technology development reviewed and tested operations.
Collaborative working with other parties across the energy industry and within the wider public and private sectors to share threat information.
Evaluation and testing of cyber security crisis management and wider business continuity plans.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 42 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Description Potential impact Controls and mitigating activities Our operations are the subject of intense SHESEC established in 2015 to provide Board level oversight of this 13 Legal, regulatory regulatory focus and we seek to deliver the risk, alongside the executive level Ethics & Compliance Committee.
and ethical highest standards in compliance and ethical The Disclosure Committee will review all external regulatory standards conduct.
We recognise any real or perceived announcements.
compliance failure to follow our global Business Principles The Chairman is directly responsible for promoting high ethical Compliance with legal, or comply with legal or regulatory obligations standards and best practice in corporate governance and ensures regulatory and ethical would undermine trust in our business.
the effective contribution of all Directors.
Non-compliance could also result in fines Experienced Group Ethics and Compliance Officer appointed in 2016 and other penalties.
to bring additional strength and focus.
Group Business Principles govern how we conduct our affairs.
Managers are required to declare that they will uphold these principles on an annual basis to ensure that we remain a responsible and fully compliant business.
Speak Up process in place to enable employees to raise and report any concerns.
Our financial performance and price Audit Committee reviews, assesses and challenges the effectiveness 14 Financial market competitiveness is dependent upon our of the governance and control mechanisms within EM&T.
Exposure to market ability to manage exposure to wholesale Group Financial Risk Management Committee meets monthly movements, including commodity prices for gas, oil, coal, carbon to review Group financial exposures and assess compliance with commodity prices and and power, interest rates for our long-term risk limits.
volumes, inflation, borrowing, fluctuations in various foreign interest rates and Governance and controls exist to manage liquidity and funding currencies and environmental factors.
Active hedging programmes in place to mitigate exposure to commodity and financial market volatility.
The seasonal nature of our business, Significant committed facilities are maintained with sufficient cash 15 Credit and liquidity contractual obligations, pension and held on deposit to meet fluctuations as they arise.
Management of decommissioning funding and margin cash counterparty A regular assessment of available resources is made including that arrangements associated with certain exposures and funding required to support the viability and going concern assumptions wholesale commodity contracts, have a uncertainties.
significant impact on our liquidity.
Certain Counterparty exposures are restricted by setting credit limits for each events and activities may have a direct impact counterparty, where possible by reference to published credit ratings.
on our credit, ratings and liquidity, which could Wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and increase the cost of, and access to, financing.
treasury positions are managed in accordance with Group policy.
We must be able to maintain robust financial Audit Committee maintains close oversight of the financial policies 16 Financial systems and produce accurate financial and procedures within clearly defined guidelines.
processing and statements that adequately disclose all Processes in place provide assurance over the completeness and reporting applicable accounting policies.
This obligation accuracy of our public financial reporting, with monitoring and internal Accuracy and includes maintaining processes to avoid audit activity designed to identify any misstatements or errors.
completeness of misstatement through fraud or error.
The internal and external We maintain an effective working relationship with our external confidence of our investor and regulatory financial information.
auditors and value their insight and recommendations.
stakeholders is reliant on the continued integrity of our financial public reporting.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 43 44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Summary Governance 46 SENIOR EXECUTIVES and Financial Statements 47 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT 48 SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT 49 SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET 49 SUMMARY GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 49 SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT 50 SUMMARY DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 53 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 44 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com N D RICK HAYTHORNTHWAITE JEFF BELL MARK HANAFIN Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer Group Executive Director and ChiefExecutive, Energy Production, Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Jeff was appointed Group Chief Trading and Distributed Energy Director on 14 October 2013.
He was FinancialOfficer and joined the Board appointed Chairman of the Board on on1August 2015.
Mark joined the Board on 14 July 2008.
1January 2014 and is Chairman of the Skills and experience Skills and experience Nominations Committee.
Jeff has a broad range of finance Mark has senior management experience Skills and experience experience.
He joined the Groups Direct across the energy value chain from E&P Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the Energy business in Toronto in 2002 where through to product sales.
He has excellent energy industry and has significant board he held various senior finance positions midstream and trading credentials as well experience, both as an executive and before moving to the Companys head as a strong track record in developing supply non-executive.
He led the rescue of Invensys office in 2008 to support the Group Chief and marketing businesses.
Before joining from 2001 to 2005 and the defence, Executive and to lead the Group Strategy Centrica, Mark spent 21 years with Royal turnaround and subsequent sale of Blue team.
In 2011 he was appointed Director Dutch Shell.
He has of Corporate Finance.
Prior to Centrica, Jeff External appointments served on the boards of Network Rail as worked in Toronto for both KPMG, where Non-executive director of EDF Energy chairman and Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and he qualified as a chartered accountant, Nuclear Generation Group Limited.
Land Securities as non-executive director.
and the Boston Consulting Group.
External appointments A N R S MARK HODGES Chairman of the global board of MARGHERITA DELLA VALLE Group Executive Director and Chief MasterCard Incorporated, QIOTechnologies Non-Executive Director Executive, Energy Supply & Services, and Arc International.
Margherita joined the Board on 1 January UK & Ireland 2011 and is Chairman of the Audit D Mark joined the Board on 1 June 2015.
Skills and experience Chief Executive Skills and experience Mark brings a strong understanding of the Iain was appointed Chief Executive on Margherita brings considerable corporate UKconsumer market and a track record 1 January 2015 and is Chairman of the finance and accounting experience and inimproving business performance.
has a sound background in marketing.
She isexperienced in working in a regulated was chief financial officer for Vodafones environment, driving significant improvements Skills and experience European region from April 2007 to October in customer service and efficiency, offer Iain has a wealth of experience heading 2010 and chief financial officer of Vodafone innovation, major IT and change projects.
Previously she Mark was group chief executive officer of He possesses a deep understanding of worked for Omnitel Pronto Italia in Italy and Towergate Partnership and prior to this he the energy sector built up over a lifetime held various consumer marketing positions spent over 20 years with Norwich Union and in the industry with a commitment to in business analytics and customer base Aviva plc holding a variety of finance, planning customers and safety.
Iain was previously management prior to moving to finance.
and strategy roles including sitting on both chief executive, downstream, BPs refining External appointments the executive committee and Aviva plc board.
and marketing division from 2007 to 2014.
Deputy Group CFO of Vodafone Group plc, Iain was a board member of BP for 10 A N R a member of HM Treasurys Financial years from 2004 and has previously held LESLEY KNOX Management Review Board of a number of senior roles throughout BP.
Non-Executive Director HMGovernment and a trustee of the Lesley joined the Board on 1 January 2012 and External appointments Vodafone Foundation.
is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive director of BT Group plc.
Skills and experience Lesley brings a wealth of strategic and financial experience across a range of businesses to the Board and she is an experienced remuneration committee chair.
She was previously with British Linen Bank and was a founder director of British Linen Advisers.
Lesley was senior non-executive director of Hays Plc and also spent 15 years with Kleinwort Benson.
External appointments Non-executive director of SABMiller plc, trusteeof the Grosvenor Estate and chairman ofGrosvenor Group Limited, Chairman of Design Dundee Limited and a trustee of The National Life Story Collection and National Galleries Scotland.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 45 Rick Haythornthwaite Iain Conn Jeff Bell Margherita Della Valle Mark Hanafin Mark Hodges Lesley Knox Mike Linn A Audit S Safety, Health, Committee Environment, Security D Disclosure and Ethics Committee Committee N Nominations Denotes Committee Committee R Remuneration Chairman Committee Ian Meakins Carlos Pascual Steve Pusey N R S N R S MIKE LINN CARLOS PASCUAL Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mike joined the Board on 1 June 2013 Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015. and is Chairman of the SHESEC.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Carlos has held a number of senior positions Mike has considerable experience in the in the energy industry and is a senior leader energy sector, particularly exploration and in energy geopolitics and economic and production and the US market.
Between 2011 and was previously chairman, chief and 2014 Carlos established and directed executive officer and president of LINN the US State Departments Energy Energy, LLC.
Until August 2014 Carlos was special envoy and coordinator for External appointments international energy affairs, acting as senior Non-executive director of LINN Energy, adviser to the US Secretary of State on LLC, non-executive board member of energy issues.
He has also served as Nabors Industries, Blackstone Minerals US ambassador in Mexico and Ukraine.
Company, LP and Western Refining Logistics and senior advisor to Quantum External appointments Energy Partners.
Member of the National Non-resident senior fellow at the Centre on Petroleum Council and inducted into the Global Energy Policy, Columbia University All American Wildcatters.
and senior vice president of IHS Inc. A N R A N S IAN MEAKINS STEVE PUSEY Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010 Steve joined the Board on 1 April 2015. and is Senior Independent Director.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Steve has a wealth of international Ian has broad general management experience as a senior customerand board experience and considerable facing business technology leader.
knowledge of managing businesses He has considerable experience in the with strong brands.
Ian is currently chief telecommunications industry in both executive officer of Wolseley plc and was, the wireline and wireless sectors and until April 2009, chief executive of Travelex in business applications and solutions.
He was chief executive officer Stevehas worked for Vodafone, Nortel of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger with and British Telecom and is a graduate Boots in July 2006 and between 2000 and of the Advanced Management Program 2004 he was president, european major at HarvardUniversity.
markets and global supply for Diageo plc.
External appointments External appointments Non-executive director of FireEye, Inc. Group chief executive officer of Wolseley and ARM Holdings plc.
It has been announced that Ian is expected to retire from Wolseley plc on 31August 2016.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 46 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SENIOR EXECUTIVES Senior Executives Full biographies can be found at centrica.
com D CHARLES CAMERON GRANT DAWSON Director of Technology Group General Counsel & &Engineering CompanySecretary Charles was appointed Director of Grant was appointed Group General Technology & Engineering on Counsel & Company Secretary in 1January2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Charles Cameron Charles has extensive technology and Grant joined British Gas plc in October engineering experience and has held 1996 and has been Group General Counsel corporate roles in marketing, planning and & Company Secretary of Centrica plc M&A.
Before joining Centrica he was head since the demerger of British Gas plc on of technology, downstream at BP plc and 17February 1997.
He was called to the Bar was a member of the downstream in 1982 and has spent most of his career executiveteam.
in industry joining the legal department of Racal Electronics plc in 1984 and then STC Prior to his time at BP, Charles spent 23 plc as legal adviser in 1986 until they were years with the French Institute of Petroleum Chris Cox taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom and their catalyst, technology licensing and Limited.
Between 1991 and 1996, he was engineering service business, Axens.
the associate general counsel for Nortel in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
CHRIS COX Managing Director, Exploration BADAR KHAN &Production Chief Executive, Energy Supply Chris was appointed Managing Director, &Services, North America Exploration & Production on 1February Badar was appointed President and CEO, 2016.
Grant Dawson Direct Energy on 1 April 2013.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Chris has extensive experience in global oil Badar has extensive expertise in both and gas upstream activities.
Since 2006 upstream and customer-facing energy and prior to his appointment with Centrica, businesses.
Prior to his appointment as he held a number of senior roles at BG President and CEO, Direct Energy, he was Group plc and was latterly the executive President, Upstream and Trading of Direct vice president, BG Advance and a member Energy.
Prior to joining Centrica in 2003, he of the group executive team.
Prior to his was a senior officer of a private retail energy time at BG Group plc, Chris was with Badar Khan company in the US and a management Amerada Hess and Chevron Corporation.
JILL SHEDDEN Group HR Director Jill was appointed Group Director, Human Resources on 1 July 2011.
Skills and experience Jill Shedden Jill joined British Gas plc as a graduate in 1988 and has since held a wide range of roles across the Group.
Prior to her appointment as Group HR Director, Jill was HR Director for Centrica Energy and was previously HR Director for British Gas Business and HR Director for British Gas Energy.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 47 Independent Auditors Statement to the members of Centrica plc We have examined the supplementary financial information BASIS OF OPINION included within the Strategic Report with supplementary material Our examination involved agreeing the balances disclosed in the for the year ended 31 December 2015, which comprises the summary financial information to full annual Financial Statements.
Summary Group Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2015 and the Our audit report on the Companys full annual Financial Statements Summary Group Income Statement, Summary Group Statement of and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report Changes in Equity and Summary Group Cash Flow Statement for describes the basis of our opinion on those Financial Statements the year then ended.
and the auditable part of that report.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS AND OPINION THE AUDITORS In our opinion the supplementary financial information is consistent The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report with the full annual Financial Statements and the auditable part of with supplementary material, in accordance with the Companies the Directors Remuneration Report of Centrica plc for the year Act 2006, which includes information extracted from the full ended 31 December 2015. annualFinancial Statements and the auditable part of the  LLP  Report of Centrica plc for the year Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors ended31December 2015.
London Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the 18 February 2016 consistencyof the summary financial information, included within the Strategic Report with supplementary material, with those full annual Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Directors RemunerationReport.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for andonly for the Companys members as a body and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whomthis statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 48 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT Summary Group Income Statement 2015 2014 Exceptional Exceptional items items Business and certain Results for Business and certain Results for performance re-measurements the year performance re-measurements the year Year ended 31 December m m m m m m Group revenue 27,971 27,971 29,408 29,408 Cost of sales before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 23,734 23,734 25,043 25,043 Re-measurement of energy contracts 116 116 1,134 1,134 Gross profit 4,237 116 4,353 4,365 1,134 3,231 Operating costs before exceptional items 3,039 3,039 2,903 2,903 Exceptional items impairments 2,268 2,268 1,938 1,938 Exceptional items onerous provisions 90 90 Exceptional items gains on disposals 341 341 Share of profits of joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation 200 13 187 106 26 132 Group operating loss 1,398 2,255 857 1,568 2,705 1,137 Net finance cost 279 279 266 266 Loss before taxation 1,119 2,255 1,136 1,302 2,705 1,403 Taxation on loss 286 538 252 375 773 398 Loss for the year 833 1,717 884 927 1,932 1,005 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 863 1,610 747 903 1,915 1,012 Non-controlling interests 30 107 137 24 17 7 Earnings per ordinary share Pence Pence Basic 14.9 20.2 Diluted 14.9 20.2 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 3.57 5.10 Final dividend proposed per ordinary share 8.43 8.40 000 000 Directors remuneration 7,028 8,345 Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 49 Summary Group Balance Sheet 2015 2014 31 December m m Non-current assets 11,614 14,574 Current assets 7,233 8,118 Assets of disposal groups classified as held for sale 13 Current liabilities 7,754 9,610 Non-current liabilities 9,718 10,011 Liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale 46 Net assets 1,342 3,071 Total shareholders equity and non-controlling interests 1,342 3,071 Summary Group Statement of Changes in Equity 2015 2014 m m 1 January 3,071 5,257 Loss for the year 747 1,012 Other comprehensive loss 480 222 1,844 4,023 Employee share schemes 60 71 Purchase of treasury shares 422 Dividends net of scrip dividends 388 867 Taxation on share based payments 2 5 Non-controlling interests 172 271 31 December 1,342 3,071 Summary Group Cash Flow Statement 2015 2014 Year ended 31 December m m Cash generated from operations 2,627 2,049 Taxation and other operating cash flows 430 832 Net cash flow from operating activities 2,197 1,217 Net cash flow from investing activities 611 651 Net cash flow from financing activities 1,331 663 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 255 97 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 621 719 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 16 1 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 860 621 The Summary Financial Statements on pages 48 and 49 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18February 2016 and were signed on its behalf by: Iain Conn Jeff Bell Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 50 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Summary Directors and Corporate Governance Report BOARD CONSTITUTION Governance profile Chairman and Chief Executive Independence Compliance The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Almost two-thirds of our Board is made up of The Company complied with the UK are split and are set out in their respective job independent Non-Executive Directors, including Corporate Governance Code in 2015. descriptions.
Senior Independent Director Financial experience centrica.
com Ian Meakins is our Senior Independent The chair of the Audit Committee is deemed to For further information on our Board and our Director.
have recent, relevant financial experience.
corporate governance framework, please refer to our website.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Board of Directors The Auditors have issued an unqualified report on the Annual We have sought to ensure we have a balanced Board where Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration individual merit and relevance are the key entry requirements but Report containing no statement under section 498 of the collectively we have an appropriate mix of diversity and skills to ensure Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Auditors Report in respect of constructive debate and thoughtful decision making.
In addition, we consistency between the Strategic Report and the Group Financial believe it is important to maintain a blend within the Non-Executive Statements is also unqualified.
These Summary Financial group where some are in full-time executive employment and others Statements are a summary of the Annual Report and Accounts are pursuing a non-executive portfolio career path.
2015 and the Summary Governance Report contains information A balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive from the Annual Report and Accounts but not the full text of that Directors on our Board promotes thorough debate and report.
They do not contain sufficient information to allow as full consideration of the important issues facing Centrica and the an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group Groups performance.
At present, there are a total of 11 Directors, and of its policies and arrangements concerning the Directors of whom four are Executive and six are Non-Executive, in addition remuneration as would be provided by the Annual Report and to our Chairman.
This represents more than half the Board, which Accounts 2015. satisfies the requirements of the Code.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2015 can be downloaded from All of our Non-Executive Directors are considered to be the Companys website at centrica.
com or can be obtained, free independent and free from any business interest which could of charge, from Equiniti, the Companys Registrars.
Shareholders materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
In addition, may also elect to receive the Annual Report and Accounts instead all of our Non-Executive Directors have assured the Board that they of the Annual Review for all future years.
Contact details for Equiniti remain committed to their respective roles and, having considered can be found on page 55. these assurances, the Board is satisfied that each Non-Executive Director is able to dedicate the necessary amount of time to the DIVIDENDS Companys affairs.
Our Non-Executive Directors are members For 2015, an interim dividend of 3.57p per share was paid on of various Committees of the Board, which are the Audit, the 26November 2015.
The Directors propose that, subject to approval Nominations, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health, at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM, a final dividend of Environment, Security and Ethics Committees.
8.43p per share will be paid on 23 June 2016 to those shareholders registered on 13May 2016.
This would make a total dividend for the Board appointments, evaluation and development year of 12.0pper share 2014: 13.5p per share.
The Companys current approach to Board composition, evaluation, diversity and succession planning is detailed in the SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors and Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report The Board believes that good corporate governance is central and Accounts.
to contributing to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined During the year under review, there were a number of changes framework of roles, responsibilities and delegated authorities is to the Board.
As announced in December 2014, Ian Meakins in place and this supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable succeeded Mary Francis to become the Companys Senior growth for the benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
Independent Director with effect from 1 January 2015.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are available on the Companys Iain Conn was appointed as a Director of the Company and website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
In became Chief Executive on 1 January 2015.
In addition, Carlos addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under Pascual and Steve Pusey were appointed as Directors of the legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Company with effect from 1 January 2015 and 1 April 2015 respectively.
Jeff Bell, our Interim Group Chief Financial Officer, was confirmed in post on 1 August 2015 and Mark Hodges was appointed as a Director with effect from 1 June 2015.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 51 The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for Board and senior management diversity reappointment at each AGM.
Details of the Directors of the Our employment policies and practices reflect a culture where Company are set out with their biographies and their Board decisions are based on individual ability and potential in relation Committee memberships on pages 44 and 45.
All new Directors to the business needs.
We are committed to promoting equal appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive induction opportunities and diversity as part of creating an inclusive working programme tailored to meet their individual needs.
environment that attracts and retains the best people and that enables everyone in Centrica to fulfil their potential.
Individuals Our policy over many years has been to conduct a thorough review are treated in a non-discriminatory manner at all stages of their of Board process, practice and culture on an annual basis with the employment, including recruitment and selection, reward, training input of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
The and development and promotion and career development.
By Board considers the annual review of the Board, its Committees delivering on our commitment to diversity and inclusion D&I and Directors as an essential part of good corporate governance.
we are able to: On each occasion, the Board has received positive reports and has adopted recommendations to improve Board, Committee attract a diverse range of talent which we believe is the fuel and individual Director performance.
for the company of the future: create an inclusive environment so that everyone can bring Recognising that it could take some time for the new Board to their whole self to work, to be themselves, have their voice settle, we undertook an internal Board review in 2015, which heard and contribute to innovation and ideas: and is set out in the diagram below: ensure people get career opportunities based on merit so Internal Board review that we have the right people in the right jobs.
At senior management level, 27% are women, whilst 29% of Stage 01 employees, excluding the Board and senior management, are women as indicated in the charts below.
Our senior management November 2015 level includes categories of employees as defined in the Act.
During The completion of Board questionnaires on governance, management the year, Centrica was recognised for our commitment to D&I by and best practice benchmarks: our progress against our improvement a number of awards for our policies promoting and supporting agenda: and reflections and insights in response to the Boards evolving context and composition.
carers, older workers and family-friendly practices.
Centrica has various programmes taking place relating to diversity in all its forms.
These include coaching and mentoring and our Stage 02 participation in the 30% Clubs cross-company, cross-sector mentoring scheme for mid-career women who will benefit from January 2016 mentoring at the current stage of their career.
In partnership with Interviews between the Chairman and each Director to explore Mars and Vodafone, we launched HitReturn, a new UK programme thematic areas and specific points raised in the survey as well as to peer review individual Directorperformance.
in the Thames Valley area for senior professionals who have taken a career break as either a parent or a carer.
The 12-week paid return-ship offers the opportunity to work on professional assignments and get expert coaching from people who have Stage 03 also returned to work after some time out.
Centrica is working with the Womens Business Council which makes recommendations February 2016 to government and UK businesses on how womens contribution Consideration by the Board of the final report on the results of the survey.
to growth can be optimised.
Breakdown by gender % Board Senior Other Stage 04 Management employees March 2016 18 Feedback meetings on the peer reviewresults.
27 29 27 30 33 67 73 70 71 73 82 Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors, as agreed with the Chairman.
During the year, Directors received 2015 Male 2014 Male regular updates and presentations on changes and developments 2015 Female 2014 Female to the business and to the legislative and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 52 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Summary Directors and Corporate Governance Report continued Board governance structure Board of Directors Safety, Health, Audit Nominations Remuneration Environment, Disclosure Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Security and Committee Ethics Committee RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop further their understanding of the Company.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of financial Shareholders can ask questions of the full Board on the matters reporting, internal controls and risk management.
The Audit put to the meeting, including the Annual Report and Accounts and Committees key function is to support the Board in fulfilling its the running of the Company generally.
The Company intends to responsibilities in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys send the Notice of AGM and any related papers to shareholders at financial reporting, internal controls and risk management.
As least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors, including part of this role, the Committee provides advice to the Board on Committee Chairmen, are in attendance at the AGM to take whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, questions, unless unforeseen circumstances arise.
is fair, balanced and understandable and provides all the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive present performance, business model and strategy.
a review of the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on each resolution at all Company general meetings.
All shareholders The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following control, for the period from 1 January 2015 to the date of this report the AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published and is satisfied that the Group complies with the guidance issued and are available on our website.
by the Financial Reporting Council.
Ian Meakins, the Senior Independent Director, is available to The Board will continue to routinely challenge management in order shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal to ensure that the system of risk management and internal controls channels has failed to resolve.
is constantly improving and remains fit for purpose.
Our website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and Relations with shareholders other interested parties including annual reports, shareholder The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to an effective investor relations and communication programme.
the investment community and information on shareholder services.
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
In 2015, Centricas shareholder engagement programme included: formal presentations for the announcement of the Groups 2014 preliminary and 2015 interim results: meetings between the Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer and the Companys major shareholders during the year: meetings between Iain Conn and the Companys major shareholders, as part of Iain Conns induction process: the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meeting with a number of the Companys major shareholders during the year to discuss the Companys remuneration arrangements: the Chairman and Senior Independent Director meeting with major institutional shareholders in order to gain a first-hand understanding of their concerns and key issues and provide regular updates of these to the Board: and a meeting with our largest investors and leading proxy advisers to provide insight into the key focus and considerations of the Board and its Committees and a better understanding of the governance measures operating across the business.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 53 Summary Remuneration Report EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Executives and better alignment with the strategic direction of the Group.
Overall maximum remuneration has been reduced and the The Remuneration Committee Committee believes that the stretching financial and non-financial targets reflect the KPIs that remuneration arrangements are completely aligned with the have been set for the business.
Executive Directors Executives underlying commitment to act in the best interests of sustainable shareholder value creation, The remuneration structure has been designed with a large whilst ensuring behaviours remain consistent with the governance proportion of awards being delivered in shares which have holding and values of the business.
periods of up to five years.
Malus and clawback apply to both cash and share awards.
In addition, Executives have a minimum Key objectives of reward framework shareholding requirement of 200% of gross salary and all vested The Remuneration Policy aims to deliver a remuneration package: shares will be held until this level has been reached.
to attract and retain high calibre Executives in a challenging As set out in the Chief Executives statement, the primary long-term and competitive business environment: financial goal for the Group is now adjusted operating cash flow that delivers an appropriate balance between fixed and variable AOCF growth.
In order to ensure continued alignment of Executive compensation for each Executive: remuneration, the Committee believes that AOCF should be the that places a strong emphasis on performance, both the short basis of the Annual Incentive Plan AIP financial measure.
After term and long term: consulting with a number of key shareholders who indicated strong strongly aligned to the achievement of strategic objectives and support, the Committee decided to exercise its discretion and set the delivery of sustainable value to shareholders: and an AOCF related target for 2016.
A summary of the Remuneration that seeks to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement Policy is provided over pages 66 to 71 of the Annual Report and of performance targets.
Accounts revised only to reflect this amendment.
Reward framework Performance for the year The core design of the total remuneration framework for Our short-term incentive targets for 2015 were based on adjusted Executives ensures that a substantial portion of the maximum operating profit and achievement against individual strategic opportunity is dependent upon performance as indicated in the objectives, measured in line with the Groups performance chart below.
Total remuneration comprises fixed pay and variable management process.
performance related pay, which is further divided into short-term Although Group adjusted operating profit decreased compared incentive with a one-year performance period and long-term with the previous year, this was against a challenging environment incentive with a three-year performanceperiod.
with further falls in wholesale gas and power prices during the year.
Weak performance in British Gas Business and Direct Energy 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Services was offset by good results elsewhere in the Group Fixed Short-term Long-term which, together with a strong contribution from Bord Gis Energy remuneration incentive incentive contributed to an increase in total downstream operating profit of 19%.
As a result, Group financial performance under the AIP Cash Shares was a fraction ahead of target.
For our long-term incentive plans, performance against Economic Profit EP, Earnings Per Share EPS and non-financial KPIs was Our KPIs, which are set out in detail on pages 20 and 21, influence measured.
the design and underpin the selection of performance criteria used within the incentive arrangements as demonstrated in the KPIs Despite solid performance against our non-financial KPIs across and incentives table below.
If overall performance is not deemed the three-year performance period ending with 2015, as the Group satisfactory, the award for any year may be reduced or forfeited, EP target under both the Long Term Incentive Scheme and the at the discretion of the Committee.
Deferred and Matching Share Scheme were not met, there will be no payouts in 2016 for the Executives under either of the long-term Remuneration Policy incentive plans.
In April 2015, we asked shareholders to approve our new Remuneration Policy as well as the new LTIP for Executives.
Further detail on targets and outcomes relating to the year as well We were pleased to receive votes in support from over 91% of as total remuneration received in respect of 2015 is set out on our shareholders for both of these resolutions.
We believe the pages 64 and 65 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
new policy represents a simpler remuneration structure for our KPIs and incentives KPI Incentive link Adjusted operating cash flow AOCF AIP primary financial measure 2016 Adjusted operating profit AIP primary financial measure 2015, LTIP economic profit three-year measure Adjusted basic earnings per share EPS LTIP EPS growth measure Total shareholder return TSR AIP deferred share investment and minimum shareholding requirement Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Process safety LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Customer satisfaction LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Employee engagement LTIP non-financial KPI dashboard Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 54 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Summary Remuneration Report continued The Directors Annual Remuneration Report is set out in full on pages 72 to 79 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION IN 2015 Single figure for total remuneration audited 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 xiv xiii RecruitRecruitSalary Salary Bonus Bonus Bonus Bonus xi xi xii LTIPs ment ment xv xvi Total 000 fees fees cash cash deferred deferred Benefits Benefits LTIPs restated award award Pension Pension Total restated Executives i Iain Conn 925 581 581 29 616 277 3,009 ii Jeff Bell 229 116 116 10 58 529 Mark Hanafin 621 606 361 361 432 24 25 660 249 265 1,616 1,988 iii Mark Hodges 365 230 230 20 91 936 iv Sam Laidlaw 967 592 61 1,234 418 3,272 v Nick Luff 407 28 187 622 vi Chris Weston 605 46 166 817 6,090 6,699 NonExecutives Rick Haythornthwaite 495 495 495 495 Margherita DellaValle 88 88 88 88 Lesley Knox 85 85 85 85 Mike Linn 73 65 73 65 Ian Meakins 85 65 85 65 vii Carlos Pascual 65 65 viii Steve Pusey 49 49 ix Mary Francis 105 105 x Paul Rayner 65 65 940 968 Total 7,030 7,667 i Iain Conn was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2015. ii Jeff Bell was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 August 2015. iii Mark Hodges was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 June 2015. iv Sam Laidlaw retired from Centrica on 31 December 2014. v Nick Luff resigned as an Executive Director on 31 August 2014. vi Chris Weston resigned as an Executive Director on 30 December 2014. vii Carlos Pascual was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2015. viii Steve Pusey was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015. ix Mary Francis resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2014. x Paul Rayner resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2014. xi Taxable benefits include car allowance, health and medical, financial planning advice and long service awards.
Non taxable benefits include matching shares received under the Share Incentive Plan and the gain from any options exercised under the HMRC-approved Sharesave plan.
xii The long-term incentives include the value of the LTIS and DMSS matching awards due to vest in April 2016, relating to the three-year performance period ending in 2015.
Theperformance targets have not been met and these awards therefore will not vest.
Full details of the performance outcome are set out on pages 73 and 74 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
xiii The long-term incentives vesting in respect of 2014 have been recalculated based on the share price on the date of vest which was 257p.
The previous disclosure in the 2014 single figure table used an estimated share price.
xiv The recruitment award shares vesting in April 2016 have been valued to calculate an estimated payout using the share price at 31 December 2015 which was 218p.
The value of the estimated dividend equivalent shares has beenincluded.
The Committeess assessment of performance against the targets that were set for the first tranche of this award is set out on page 75 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
xv Notional contributions to the CUPS DC scheme for Mark Hanafin and Jeff Bell less an allowance for CPI inflation of 2.7% in 2014 and 1.3% in 2015 have been included in this table as if CUPS DC were a cash balance scheme.
Jeff Bell joined the scheme on 1 August 2015 and the figure shown above represents the notional accumulated value of his CUPS DC benefits as at 31 December 2015. xvi Iain Conn and Mark Hodges are entitled to receive a salary supplement of 30% and 25% of base pay respectively.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 SUMMARY GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 55 Shareholder Information A wealth of other information is also available on our website, This section provides shareholders with key information to including: assist in the management of their shareholding.
regular updates about our business: financial results: MANAGING YOUR SHARES comprehensive share price information: Manage your shares online dividend payment dates and amounts: We actively encourage our shareholders to receive the Companys Articles of Association: and communications via email and view documents electronically share and dividend history.
Receiving communications and Company documents electronically saves our Company money This Annual Report and Accounts can also be viewed online and reduces our environmental impact.
If you sign up for electronic communications, you will receive an General enquiries email to notify you that new shareholder documents are available to Centricas share register is administered and maintained by Equiniti, view online, including the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual our Registrar, whom you can contact directly if you have any Review on the day they are published.
You will also receive alerts questions about your shareholding which are not answered here to let you know that you can cast your AGM vote online.
You can contact Equiniti at the following: You can also manage your shareholding online by registering Address: Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, for Shareview at shareview.
co. uk, a free, secure online site where West Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom.
you can access your information and complete a number of Telephone: 0371 384 2985 functionsincluding: Outside the UK: 44 0 121 415 7061 viewing information about your shareholding or dividend Textphone: 0371 384 2255 payments: Outside the UK: 44 0 121 415 7028 updating your records, including changing your address or bankmandate instructions: and Website: help.
co. uk appointing a proxy for the AGM.
Calls to an 03 number cost no mor e than a national rate call to an 01 or 02 number.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday UK time, excluding public holidays Centrica FlexiShare in England and Wales.
FlexiShare is an easy way to hold Centrica shares without a share When contacting Equiniti or registering via shareview.
Your shares are held by a nominee company, Equiniti you should have your shareholder reference number at hand.
Corporate Nominees Limited, however, you are able to attend and This can be found on your share certificate, dividend tax voucher vote at general meetings as if the shares were held in your own or any other correspondence you have received from Equiniti.
Holding your shares in this way is free and comes with a number of benefits: If you hold less than 2,500 shares, you will be able to change your registered address or set up a dividend mandate instruction over low cost share dealing rates, full details of which are available the phone, however, for security reasons, if you hold more than on the Shareholder Centre together with dealing charges: 2,500 shares, you will need to put this in writing to Equiniti.
no replacement share certificate charges if your share certificate Together with Equiniti, we have introduced an electronic queries is lost or destroyed: and service to enable our shareholders to manage their investment quicker settlement periods for buying and selling shares.
Details of this service can be found at Centrica.
The Shareholder Centre on our website includes frequently asked Duplicate documents questions and forms that are available to download to: If you receive more than one copy of shareholder documents, register for electronic communications: it is likely that you have multiple accounts on the share register, transfer your shares: perhaps with a slightly different name or address.
To combine change your registered name or address: your shareholdings, please contact Equiniti and provide your shareholder reference numbers.
This also helps us to reduce register a lost share certificate and obtain a replacement: our environmental impact and save paper.
consolidate your share certificates: manage your dividend payments: buy, sell or transfer shares through Centrica FlexiShare: and notify the death of a shareholder.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 56 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder Information continued RANGE ANALYSIS OF REGISTER RANGE ANALYSIS OF REGISTER Breakdown of shareholdings overall Breakdown of shareholdings with over 5,001 shares Percentage of issued Percentage of issued Range Number of holdings share capital Range Number of holdings share capital 1 500 441,900 2.0% 5,001 10,000 4,476 0.6% 501 1,000 93,513 1.3% 10,001 50,000 1,827 0.7% 1,001 5,000 63,670 2.3% 50,001 100,000 188 0.3% Over 5,001 7,346 94.4% 100,001 1,000,000 495 3.5% Total 606,429 100% 1,000,001 maximum 360 89.3% Total 7,346 excludes shares held in Treasury.
excludes shares held in Treasury.
Shareholder communication Share distribution Shareholder dividend preferences preferences as at 31 December 2015 for the 2015 interim dividend Number of shares Number of holdings Number of shares Institutions 4,635,446,843 Hardcopy Annual Report 5,576 Scrip dividend reinvestment 959,641,113 Individuals 303,647,145 Hardcopy Annual Review 15,916 Bank mandate 3,647,174,960 Centrica FlexiShare 130,746,942 Notice of Availability 600,407Cheque 446,591,274 Treasury 58,705,016 Electronic communication 54,369 When including Centrica FlexiShare The Company spends over 200,000 If you elect to receive cash dividends you holders, individual shareholders equate on postage of its Annual Report and are encouraged to have your dividends to 98% of the Companys registered Accounts and related documents.
paid directly to your bank or building shareholders with institutions making up society account.
This means that you will Help us to reduce our costs and to the remaining 2%.
The 98% of individual receive the money on the day it is paid reduce our environmental impact by shareholders hold 8.6% of the which avoids the risk of dividend cheques signing up now for electronic shareholder Companys issued share capital with being delayed or lost in the post.
Register now at institutional investors holding 91.4%.
co. uk and you will be notified These figures exclude shares held in as soon as new shareholder documents Treasury which represent 1.2% of the are available online.
TELL SID th 2016 is the 30 anniversary of the privatisation of British Gas Corporation in 1986.
The famous Tell Sid advertising campaign prompted hundreds of thousands of people to buy shares in British Gas plc.
Anyone who kept their British Gas plc shares now owns stakes in BG Group plc and National Grid plc as well as Centricaplc.
Our Sid shareholders continue to make up an important part of our shareholder base accounting for 22.5% of our shareholders.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Group Results CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT Resilient financial performance in a challenging Proposed 2015 final dividend of 8.43p, resulting in 01 Group Results and environment.
Centrica plc Annual Review 2015 Registered office: Company registered centrica.
Iain Conn Chief Executive Satisfying the changing needs of our customers Annual Review 2015
