152 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 sHaReHOlDeR inFORmatiOn advisers Registrar services Public relations Buchanan Jersey, channel islands 107 Cheapside Computershare Investor Services Jersey Plc London EC2V 6DN Queensway House Telephone: 44 0 20 7466 5000 Hilgrove Street St Helier Auditor Jersey JE1 1ES  LLP 1 Embankment Place canada London WC2N 6RH Computershare Telephone: 44 0 20 7583 5000 100 University Avenue 8th Floor Toronto ON M5J 2Y1 forward-lookinG statements Forwardlooking statements involve known and unknown risks, This report contains certain forwardlooking statements.
uncertainties and a variety of material factors, many of which are beyond These statements are made by the directors in good faith the Companys control which may cause the actual results, performance based on the information available to them up to the time of or achievements of Centamin, its subsidiaries and affiliated companies their approval of this report and such statements should be to be materially different from any future results, performance or treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including achievements expressed or implied by the forwardlooking statements.
both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such Readers are cautioned that forwardlooking statements may not be forward looking information.
appropriate for other purposes than outlined in this document.
Such factors include, among others, future price of gold: general business, Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements economic, competitive, political and social uncertainties: the actual This document contains forwardlooking information which may results of current exploration and development activities: conclusions include, but is not limited to, statements with respect to the future of economic evaluations and studies: fluctuations in the value of financial or operating performance of Centamin plc Centamin or the the U. S. dollar relative to the local currencies in the jurisdictions of Company, its subsidiaries together the Group, affiliated companies, the Companys key projects: changes in project parameters as plans its projects, the future price of gold, the estimation of mineral reserves continue to be refined: possible variations of ore grade or projected and mineral resources, the realisation of mineral reserve and resource recovery rates: accidents, labour disputes or slowdowns and other estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, risks of the mining industry: climatic conditions: political instability, revenues, margins, costs of production, estimates of initial capital, insurrection or war, civil unrest or armed assault: labour force availability sustaining capital, operating and exploration expenditures, costs and and turnover: delays in obtaining financing or governmental approvals timing of the development of new deposits, costs and timing of future or in the completion of exploration and development activities: as exploration, requirements for additional capital, foreign exchange well as those factors referred to in the section entitled Principal risks risks, governmental regulation of mining operations and exploration affecting the Centamin Group section of the Management Discussion operations, timing and receipt of approvals, consents and permits & Analysis.
The reader is also cautioned that the foregoing list of factors under applicable mineral legislation, environmental risks, title disputes is not exhausted of the factors that may affect the Companys forward or claims, limitations of insurance coverage and regulatory matters.
Often, but not always, forwardlooking statements can be identified by the use of words such as plans, expects, is expected, budget, Although the Company has attempted to identify important factors scheduled, estimates, forecasts, intends, targets, aims, that could cause actual actions, events or results to differ materially anticipates or believes or variations including negative variations from those described in forwardlooking statements, there may be of such words and phrases, or may be identified by statements to the other factors that cause actions, events or results to differ from those effect that certain actions, events or results may, could, would, anticipated, estimated or intended.
Forwardlooking statements should, might or will be taken, occur or be achieved.
contained herein are made as of the date of this document and, except as required by applicable law, the Company disclaims any obligation to update any forwardlooking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or results or otherwise.
There can be no assurance that forwardlooking statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forwardlooking statements.
Please refer to the technical report entitled Mineral Resource and Reserve Estimate for the Sukari Gold Project, Egypt effective on 30 June 2015 and issued on 23 October 2015 and filed on SEDAR at www.
com, for further discussion of the extent to which the estimate of mineral resources reserves may be materially affected by any known environmental, permitting, legal, title, taxation, sociopolitical, or other relevant issues as well as details of the qualified persons and quality control.
Designed and produced by www.
com The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from wellmanaged forests with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO 14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Printed by Gemini Print Limited, an FSC and ISO 14001 accredited company.
Gemini is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance as an important part of this strategy.
Gemini aims to reduce at source the effect operations have on the environment, and is committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Centamin plc Annual report 2015 CEntAmin.
Com Registered office Egypt Australia 2 Mulcaster Street 361 EIHorreya Road 57 Kishorn Road St Helier Sedi Gaber Mount Pleasant Jersey JE2 3NJ Alexandria Western Australia 6153 Egypt T: 44 0 1534 828 700 T: 61 0 8 9316 2640 F: 44 0 1534 731 946 T: 20 0 3541 1259 F: 61 0 8 9316 2650 E: info@centamin.
