114 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 1.
General information IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 addresses the financial reporting of financial assets and financial liabilities.
This Centamin plc the Company is a listed public company, standard replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and incorporated in Jersey and operating through subsidiaries measurement.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into and jointly controlled entities operating in Egypt, Ethiopia, two measurement categories: those measured at fair value and United Kingdom and Australia.
It is the parent company of those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made the group, comprising the Company and its subsidiaries and at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys joint arrangements.
business model for managing its financial instruments and the Registered office and principal place of business: contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial Centamin plc liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
2 Mulcaster Street The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities income rather than in net earnings, unless this creates an are set out in the directors report and the strategic report of the accounting mismatch.
The impairment model and hedging rules annual report.
have also been amended under IFRS 9 but the derecognition rules remain the same.
The group does not expect a significant 2.
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards impact from IFRS 9 at the moment as it does not enter into formal standards not affecting the reported results nor the hedge accounting arrangements, has no longterm trade or other financial position receivables and does not hold financial liabilities at fair value.
In the current year, the new and revised Standards and However, the group will need to consider the accounting for Interpretations that have been adopted have not had a significant assets currently held as availableforsale.
The new standard will be impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. new standards, amendments and interpretations not yet adopted IFRS 16 Leases.
The new standard will replace IAS 17 Leases Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective up to and eliminates the classification of leases as either operating or the date of issuance of the financial statements are listed below.
finance leases by the lessee.
Classification of leases by the lessor This listing of standards and interpretations issued are those that under IFRS 16 continues as either an operating or a finance lease, the group reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, as was the treatment under IAS 17 Leases.
The treatment of financial position or performance when applied at a future date.
leases by the lessee will require capitalisation of all leases resulting in accounting treatment similar to finance leases under IAS 17 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers.
Exemptions for leases of very low value or shortterm replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts leases will be applicable.
The new standard will result in an increase and provides a five step framework for application to customer in lease assets and liabilities for the lessee.
Under the new standard contracts: identification of customer contract, identification of the the treatment of all lease expense is aligned in the statement of contract performance obligations, determination of the contract earnings with depreciation, and an interest expense component price, allocation of the contract price to the contract performance recognised for each lease, in line with finance lease accounting obligations, and revenue recognition as performance obligations under IAS 17 Leases.
The groups office building leases will come are satisfied.
A new requirement where revenue is variable on balance sheet on adoption of IFRS 16 but this is not expected stipulates that revenue may only be recognised to the extent that to have a significant impact on either the balance sheet or KPI it is highly probable that significant reversal of revenue will not reporting.
IFRS 16 will be applied prospectively for annual periods occur.
The group is currently assessing the impact of IFRS 15 but beginning on or after 1 January 2019. as the majority of gold sales are not subject to pricing adjustments, a significant impact is not anticipated.
The new standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are denominated in US dollars US$, which is the presentational currency of Centamin plc.
All companies in the group use the US$ as their functional currency except for the UK subsidiaries which are denominated in Great British pounds GBP and the Australian subsidiaries which are denominated in Australian dollars A$.
All financial information presented in United States dollars has been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 115 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Sukari Gold Mines SGM is jointly owned by PGM and EMRA International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued on a 50% equal basis.
For accounting purposes, SGM is wholly by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and consolidated within the Centamin group of companies reflecting adopted for use by the European Union and interpretations the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee see note 21 and will therefore recognise a noncontrolling IFRS IC both as adopted by the European Union EU and which interest NCI for EMRAs participation.
Furthermore based on are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2015, the the requirements of the Concession Agreement, payments to NCI Companies Jersey Law 1991, and IFRS as issued by the IASB and meet the definition of a liability and will be recorded in the income interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS IC which are statement and statement of financial position below profit after mandatory as at 31 December 2015, therefore the group financial tax, as the EMRA profit share, on the date that a net production statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
Payment made to EMRA pursuant to group has not early adopted any other amendments, standards or the provisions of the Concession Agreement is based on the net interpretations that have been issued but are not yet mandatory.
production surplus available as at 30 June, being SGMs financial year end.
Pursuant to the Concession Agreement, PGM solely The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a funds SGMs activities.
PGM is also entitled to recover the following going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as costs and expenses payable from sales revenue excluding the modified by availableforsale financial assets, and financial assets royalty payable to the Arab Republic of Egypt ARE : a all current and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value operating expenses incurred and paid after the initial commercial through profit and loss.
production: b exploration costs, including those accumulated to The groups financial statements have been prepared on the the commencement of commercial production at the rate of 33.3% basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in of total accumulated cost per annum : and c exploitation capital the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 costs, including those accumulated prior to the commencement of except for the implementation of a number of minor amendments commercial production at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU which applied for cost per annum.
These new pronouncements do not have EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% except for, in accordance a significant impact on the accounting policies, methods of with the terms of the Concession Agreement, in the first four computation or presentation applied by the group and therefore years where it shall be 40% for the first two years and 45% for the priorperiod financial statements have not been restated for these following two years of SGMs net production surplus EMRA Profit pronouncements.
Share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to Principles of consolidation ARE and recoverable costs.
Based on the Companys calculation The consolidated financial statements are prepared by combining there was no net profit share due to EMRA as at 31 December the financial statements of all the entities that comprise the 2015, nor is any likely to be due as at 30 June 2016.
Accordingly, consolidated entity, being the Company the parent entity and no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date.
Subsidiaries are all entities including structured made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession entities over which the group has control, as defined in IFRS 10 Agreement will be recognised as a variable charge in the income Consolidated financial statements.
Consistent accounting statement below profit after tax of Centamin, which will lead to a policies are employed in the preparation and presentation of the reduction in the earnings per share.
Going concern The consolidated financial statements include the information and These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 results of each subsidiary from the date on which the Company have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate obtains control and until such time as the Company ceases to the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the control such entity.
The group controls an entity when the group is normal course of operations.
exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement The group meets its daytoday working capital requirements with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its through existing cash resources.
As discussed in note 20, during power over the entity.
2012 the operation of the mine was affected by two legal actions.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, all intercompany The first of these followed from a decision taken by EGPC to charge balances and transactions, and unrealised profits arising within the international, not local subsidised prices for the supply of Diesel consolidated entity are eliminated in full.
Fuel Oil to Sukari, and the second arose as a result of a judgment of the administrative court in relation to, amongst other matters, 2 the Companys 160km exploitation lease.
With regard to the first decision, the Company remains confident that in the event that it is required to continue to pay international prices, the mine at Sukari will remain commercially viable.
Similarly, the Company remains confident that the appeal it has lodged in relation to the decision of the Administrative Court will ultimately be successful, although final resolution of the matter may take some time.
116 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Financial liabilities Going concern continued Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair With respect to the legal action, on 20 March 2013 the Supreme value through profit or loss FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Administrative Court upheld the Companys application to Financial liabilities at FVTPL suspend the decision until the merits of the Companys appeal are Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial considered and ruled on, thus providing assurance that normal liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
operations would be able to continue during this process.
Sukari A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: has operated as usual throughout the period.
it has been incurred principally for the purpose of repurchasing it In the unlikely event that the group is unsuccessful in either or both in the near term: or of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial a reduced area, it is the directors belief that the group will be able instruments that the group manages together and has a recent to continue as going concern.
actual pattern of shortterm profit taking: or Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a in connection with the long term viability statement refer to the hedging instrument.
risk management report included within the annual report, the A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a accounting policies measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which arise: or ensures that the resulting financial statements satisfy the concepts the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its of the underlying transactions or other events is reported.
These performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, with the groups documented risk management or investment unless otherwise stated.
strategy, and information about the grouping is provided The following significant policies have been adopted in the internally on that basis: or preparation and presentation of these financial statements: it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded Cash and cash equivalents derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or equivalents are shortterm, highlyliquid investments that are readily liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains insignificant risk of changes in value.
or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
Financial instruments The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the groups interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the other balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual gains and losses line item in the income statement.
Other financial liabilities Financial liabilities and equity Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the contractual arrangement.
effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of Equity instruments calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments Equity instruments issued by the group are recognised at the through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 117 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements Financial assets Loans and receivables Financial assets are recognised and derecognised on trade date Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method measured at fair value, net of transaction costs except for those less impairment.
Interest is recognised by applying the effective financial assets classified as at fair value through the profit or loss interest rate except for shortterm receivables when the recognition which are initially measured at fair value.
of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost in the Company financial statements.
Other Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for financial assets are loans and receivables.
The classification indicators of impairment at each reporting date.
Financial assets depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows of the investment Effective interest method have been impacted.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, The effective interest method is a method of calculating the the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced Availableforsale financial assets AFS through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable Listed shares and listed redeemable notes held by the group is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
that are traded in an active market are classified as being AFS Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are and are stated at fair value.
The group also has investments in credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying unlisted shares that are not traded in an active market but that are amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
classified as AFS financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Fair With the exception of availableforsale equity instruments, if, in a value is determined in the manner described in note 26.
Gains and subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring comprehensive income and accumulated profits with the exception after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent the method and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is which are recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain been had the impairment not been recognised.
or loss previously recognised in the investments revaluation reserve In respect of availableforsale equity instruments, any subsequent is reclassified to profit or loss.
increase in fair value after an impairment loss is recognised in other Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognised in profit or loss comprehensive income.
when the groups right to receive the dividends is established.
Derecognition of financial assets The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign The group derecognises a financial asset only when the currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or the spot rate at the balance sheet date.
The foreign exchange when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks gains and losses that are recognised in profit or loss are determined and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the based on the amortised cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred income.
asset, the group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
118 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when accounting policies continued facts and circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 Exploration for and Employee benefits evaluation of mineral resources suggest that the carrying amount of exploration and evaluation assets may exceed its recoverable A liability is recognised for benefits accruing to employees in amount.
The recoverable amount of the exploration and evaluation respect of wages and salaries, annual leave, long service leave and assets or the cash generating unit s to which it has been allocated, sick leave when it is probable that settlement will be required and being no larger than the relevant area of interest is estimated to they are capable of being measured reliably.
determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where an Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits expected impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the to be settled within twelve months, are measured at their nominal asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, values using the remuneration rate expected to apply at the time of but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not settlement.
Liabilities recognised in respect of employee benefits exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had which are not expected to be settled within twelve months are no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
measured as the present value of the estimated future cash flows to Where a decision is made to proceed with development in be made by the consolidated entity in respect of services provided respect of a particular area of interest, the relevant exploration by employees up to reporting date.
and evaluation asset is tested for impairment, reclassified to mine Superannuation development properties, and then amortised over the life of the The Company contributes to, but does not participate in, reserves associated with the area of interest once mining operations compulsory superannuation funds defined contribution schemes have commenced.
on behalf of the employees and directors in respect of salaries and Mine development expenditure is recognised at cost less directors fees paid.
Contributions are charged against income as accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, the Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure associated costs are amortised over the estimated economic life of Exploration and evaluation expenditures in relation to each the mine on a units of production basis.
separate area of interest are recognised as an exploration and Changes in factors such as estimates of proved and probable evaluation asset in the year in which they are incurred where the reserves that affect unit of production calculations are dealt with on following conditions are satisfied: a prospective basis.
a the rights to tenure of the area of interest are current: and Foreign currencies b at least one of the following conditions is also met: The individual financial statements of each group entity are i the exploration and evaluation expenditures are expected presented in its functional currency being the currency of the to be recouped through successful development and primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
exploration of the area of interest, or alternatively, by its sale: For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the or results and financial position of each entity are expressed in ii exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest United States dollars, which is the functional currency of the have not at the reporting date reached a stage which permits group and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial a reasonable assessment of the existence or otherwise of statements except for the UK subsidiaries which are denominated economically recoverable reserves, and active and significant in Great British pounds and the Australian subsidiaries which are operations in, or in relation to, the area of interest are denominated in Australian dollars.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, Exploration and evaluation assets are initially measured at cost transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency and include acquisition of rights to explore, studies, exploration are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the drilling, trenching and sampling and associated activities.
At each reporting date, monetary items denominated and administrative costs are only included in the measurement of in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at exploration and evaluation costs where they are related directly to the reporting date.
Nonmonetary items carried at fair value that operational activities in a particular area of interest.
are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the date when the fair value was determined.
Nonmonetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 119 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements Inventories Depreciation is provided on PPE.
Depreciation is calculated on a straightline basis so as to write off the net cost or other revalued Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable amount of each asset over its expected useful life to its estimated value.
Costs including an appropriate portion of fixed and variable residual value.
overhead expenses are assigned to inventory on hand by the method appropriate to each particular class of inventory, with The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method the majority being valued on a weighted average cost basis.
are reviewed at the end of each annual financial period, with the Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less effect of any changes recognised on a prospective basis.
all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make Freehold land is not depreciated.
The following estimated useful lives are used in the calculation Ore stockpiles, gold in circuit and finished goods are valued of depreciation: applying absorption costing.
Plant and equipment 2 20 years Interests in joint arrangements Office equipment 3 7 years The group applies IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 Mining equipment 2 13 years investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint Buildings 4 20 years operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor.
Joint ventures are accounted The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is for using the equity method.
In relation to its interests in joint determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the operations, the group recognises its share of assets and liabilities: carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
revenue from the sale of its share of the output: and its share of Mine development properties expenses.
Where mining of a mineral resource has commenced, the SGM is wholly consolidated within the Centamin group of accumulated costs are transferred from exploration and evaluation companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the assets to mine development properties.
Amortisation is first charged to new mine development ventures Leased assets from the date of first commercial production.
Amortisation of Leased assets are classified as finance leases when the terms of mine properties is on a unit of production basis resulting in an the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the proved to ownership of the leased asset to the lessee.
All other leases are and probable ore reserves.
The unit of production can be on a classified as operating leases.
tonnes or an ounce depleted basis.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on Capitalised underground development costs incurred to enable a straightline basis over the lease term, except where other access to specific ore blocks or areas of the underground mine, and systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which which only provide an economic benefit over the period of mining economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Contingent that ore block or area, are depreciated on a units of production rentals arising under operating leases are recognised as an expense basis, whereby the denominator is estimated ounces of gold in in the period in which they are incurred.
Proven and probable reserves within that ore block or area where it is considered probable that those resources will be extracted Property, plant and equipment PPE economically.
PPE is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
PPE will include capitalised development expenditure.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item as well as the estimated cost of abandonment.
In the event that settlement of all or part of the purchase consideration is deferred, cost is determined by discounting the amounts payable in the future to their present value as at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of PPE includes the estimated restoration costs associated with the asset.
120 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value loss costs to sell and accounting policies continued value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash Stripping activity assets flows are discounted to their present value using a pretax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of The group defers stripping costs incurred removal of mine waste money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of materials which provide improved access to further quantities of future flows have not been adjusted.
material that will be mined in future periods.
This waste removal activity is known as stripping.
There can be two benefits accruing If the recoverable amount of a cash generating unit is estimated to the entity from the stripping activity: to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Where usable ore that can be used to produce inventory: and an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount improved access to further quantities of material that will be of the cash generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of mined in future periods.
its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased The costs of stripping activity to be accounted for in accordance carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would with the principles of IAS 2 Inventories to the extent that the have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for benefit from the stripping activity is realised in the form of inventory the cash generating unit in prior years.
The costs of stripping activity which provides a benefit in A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit the form of improved access to ore is recognised as a noncurrent or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, stripping activity asset where the following criteria are met: in which case the reversal of an impairment loss is treated as a a it is probable that the future economic benefit improved access revaluation increase.
to the ore body associated with the stripping activity will flow to Revenue the entity: Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received b the entity can identify the component of the ore body for which or receivable for goods and services in the normal course of access has been improved: and business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that Sale of goods component can be measured reliably.
Revenue from the sale of mineral production is recognised when When the costs of the stripping activity asset and the inventory the group has passed the significant risks and rewards of ownership produced are not separately identifiable, production stripping costs of the mineral production to the buyer, it is probable that economic are allocated between the inventory produced and the stripping benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the group, activity asset by using an allocation basis that is based on a relevant the sales price can be measured reliably, and the group has no production measure.
A stripping activity asset is accounted for significant continuing involvement and the costs incurred or to be as an addition to, or as an enhancement of, an existing asset and incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
This classified as tangible or intangible according to the nature of the is when insurance risk has passed to the buyer and the goods have existing asset of which it forms part.
A stripping activity asset is been collected at the agreed location.
initially measured at cost and subsequently carried at cost or its Where the terms of the executed sales agreement allow for an revalued amount less depreciation or amortisation and impairment adjustment to the sales price based on a survey of the mineral losses.
A stripping activity asset is depreciated or amortised on production by the buyer for instance an assay for gold content, a systematic basis, over the expected useful life of the identified recognition of the revenue from the sale of mineral production component of the ore body that becomes more accessible as is based on the most recently determined estimate of product a result of the stripping activity.
The stripping activity asset is specifications.
depreciated using a units of production method based on the total ounces to be produced over the life of the component of the Preproduction revenues ore body.
Income derived by the entity prior to the date of commercial production is offset against the expenditure capitalised and carried Deferred stripping costs are included in stripping assets, within in the consolidated statement of financial position.
These form part of the total investment in the recognised after commencement of commercial production are relevant cashgenerating unit, which is reviewed for impairment if recognised in accordance with the revenue policy stated above.
events or a change in circumstances indicate that the carrying value The commencement date of commercial production is determined may not be recoverable.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is when stable and sustained production capacity has been achieved.
Production royalty Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation and financial assets The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is entitled to a royalty of 3% At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts of net sales revenue revenue net of freight and refining costs as of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there defined from the sale of gold and associated minerals from the is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment Sukari Gold Mine.
This royalty is calculated and recognised on loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of receipt of the final certificate of analysis document received from the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the the refinery.
Due to its nature, this royalty is not recognised in cost impairment loss if any.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, of sales but rather in other operating costs.
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are largely independent cash inflows cash generating units.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 121 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements Other income Assets held for sale and discontinued operations are measured Interest income in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic period in which the combination occurs, the group reports benefits will flow to the group and the amount of income can be provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, to that assets net carrying amount.
would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Business combinations The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition Acquisitions of businesses as defined by IFRS 3 are accounted to the date the group obtains complete information about facts and for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the to a maximum of one year.
date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control Investments in associates of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit An associate is an entity over which the group has significant or loss as incurred.
influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration control over those policies.
arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 either in profit or assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Changes in Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for postacquisition changes in the groups share of the net assets within equity.
of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the groups investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the groups interest previouslyheld interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to in that associate which includes any longterm interests that, in fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the group attains substance, form part of the groups net investment in the associate control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit are recognised only to the extent that the group has incurred or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other the associate.
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups share of the treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured Any excess of the groups share of the net fair value of the in accordance with IAS 12 Income taxes and IAS 19 Employee identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost benefits respectively: of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by profit or loss.
the group of an acquirees sharebased payment awards are Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the group, measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Sharebased payment: profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups and interest in the relevant associate.
assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in The group determines at each reporting date whether there is any accordance with IFRS 5 Noncurrent assets held for sale.
objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case, the group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to share of profit and loss of associates in the income statement.
Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised in the income statement.
122 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 3.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation accounting policies continued Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable Sharebased payments and deferred tax.
Equity settled sharebased payments with employees and others Current tax providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
equity instrument at grant date.
Fair value is measured by the use Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated of the BlackScholes model.
Where sharebased payments are statement of comprehensive income because of items of income subject to market conditions, fair value was measured by the use of or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and a MonteCarlo simulation.
The fair value determined at the grant items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for date of the equity settled sharebased payments is expensed over current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or the vesting period, based on the consolidated entitys estimate of substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
shares that will eventually vest.
Deferred tax Equity settled sharebased transactions with other parties are Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements except where the fair value cannot be estimated reliably, in which and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of case they are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised granted, measured at the date the entity obtains the goods or the for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are counterparty renders the service.
The fair value of the employee generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to services received in exchange for the grant of the options is the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is against which those deductible temporary differences can be determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised including any market performance conditions for example, if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial an entitys share price : recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit excluding the impact of any service and nonmarket nor the accounting profit.
performance vesting conditions for example, profitability and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary period : and differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and including the impact of any nonvesting conditions for example, associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group the requirement for employees to save or holding shares for a is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it specific period of time.
is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible When the options are exercised, the Company issues new temporary differences associated with such investments and shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the share premium.
benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on reverse in the foreseeable future.
managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Further details each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer on how the fair value of equity settled sharebased transactions has probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all been determined can be found in note 27.
At each reporting date, or part of the asset to be recovered.
the group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss over the remaining are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled vesting period, with corresponding adjustment to the equity settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have employee benefits reserve.
been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets Issued capital reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly in which the group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally Where the Company or other members of the consolidated group enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax purchases the Companys equity share capital, the consideration liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same paid is deducted from the total shareholders equity of the group taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax and or of the Company as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders equity of the group and or the Company.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 123 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements Restoration and rehabilitation Litigation A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is recognised when The group exercises judgment in measuring and recognising there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to exploration, development and production activities undertaken, pending litigation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 20 it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to the financial statements.
Judgment is necessary in assessing the to settle the obligation, and the amount of the provision can be likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, measured reliably.
The estimated future obligations include the and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
costs of dismantling and removal of facilities, restoration and The group is currently a party to two legal actions both of which monitoring of the affected areas.
The provision for future restoration could affect its ability to operate the mine at Sukari in the manner costs is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure in which it is currently operated and adversely affect its profitability.
required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
The details of this litigation, which relate to the loss of the Egyptian Future restoration costs are reviewed annually and any changes in national subsidy for diesel fuel oil and the ability of the group to the estimate are reflected in the present value of the restoration 2 operate outside the area of 3km determined by the Administrative provision at each reporting date.
Court of first instance to be the area of the Sukari exploitation lease, The initial estimate of the restoration and rehabilitation provision are given in note 20 to the financial statements and in the most relating to exploration, development and mining production recently filed Annual Information Form AIF which is available activities is capitalised into the cost of the related asset and on SEDAR at www.
Although it is possible to quantify amortised on the same basis as the related asset, unless the present the effects of the loss the national fuel subsidy, it is not currently obligation arises from the production of the inventory in the period, possible to quantify with sufficient precision the effect of restricting 2 in which case the amount is included in the cost of production for operations to an area of 3km.
Changes in the estimate of the provision of restoration Every action is being taken to contest these decisions, including and rehabilitation are treated in the same manner, except that the making of formal legal appeals and, although their resolution the unwinding of the effect of discounting on the provision is may still take some time, management remain confident that a recognised as a finance cost within other operating costs rather satisfactory outcome will ultimately be achieved.
In the meantime, than being capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
however, the group is continuing to pay international prices for diesel fuel oil.
With respect to the Administrative Court ruling, on 20 March 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court upheld the 4.
Critical accounting judgments Companys application to suspend this decision until the merits of critical judgments in applying the entitys accounting policies the Companys appeal are considered and ruled on, thus providing The following are the critical judgments that management has assurance that normal operations will be able to continue during made in the process of applying the groups accounting policies this process.
and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: In the unlikely event that the group is unsuccessful in either or both of its legal actions, and that the operating activities are restricted to Management has discussed its critical accounting judgments a reduced area, it is managements belief that the group will be able and associated disclosures with the Companys audit and risk to continue as going concern.
Recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation and Impairment of assets other than exploration and evaluation and development expenditure financial assets The groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation IFRS requires management to test for impairment if events or expenditure results in exploration and evaluation expenditure being changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of capitalised for those projects where such expenditure is considered a finite lived asset may not be recoverable.
Management has likely to be recoverable through future extraction activity or sale concluded that there is no indication that an impairment exists, or where the exploration activities have not reached a stage which nor have any indicators arisen after the reporting period and are permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
therefore not required to perform a full impairment review under IAS 36.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular In making its assessment as to the possibility of whether whether the group will proceed with development based on impairments losses having arisen, management considered the existence of reserves or whether an economically viable extraction following indications: operation can be established.
Such estimates and assumptions internal sources of information: may change from period to period as new information becomes external sources of information: available.
If, subsequent to the exploration and evaluation litigation: expenditure being capitalised, a judgment is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely or the project is to be abandoned, the key assumptions applied in the 31 December 2015 the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the impairment review: income statement.
forecast gold prices: discount rate: production volumes: reserves and resources report: and costs and recovery rates.
124 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 4.
Critical accounting judgments continued Key sources of estimation uncertainty Recovery of capitalised exploration evaluation and The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, development expenditure continued and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting As described in note 13 to the financial statements, in date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment February 2015, the Company gave formal notice to Alecto Minerals to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next plc Alecto terminating the joint venture agreement entered into financial year: between the Company and Alecto in September 2013 with regards Provision for restoration and rehabilitation costs to the development of Alectos licences in Ethiopia.
The group is required to decommission, rehabilitate and restore Centamins rights in the Wayuboda and Aysid Metekel licences mines and processing sites at the end of their producing lives to have reverted back to Alecto, such that Alecto will hold 100% a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.
The provision of the licences and will assume responsibility for the ongoing has been calculated taking into account the estimated future commitments in respect of the licences on termination of the obligations including the costs of dismantling and removal of joint venture and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to facilities, restoration and monitoring of the affected areas.
The date, including the acquisition costs in relation to those licences, provision for future restoration costs is the best estimate of the amounting to US$2.7 million of which US$2.3 million was written present value of the expenditure required to settle the restoration off in 2014. obligation at the reporting date.
Exploration activities were ceased in Ethiopia in late 2015 with Ore reserve estimates closure of all remaining projects and the subsequent wind up of the Estimates of recoverable quantities of reserves include assumptions Sheba Exploration entities is in progress.
The decision was taken on commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates and after a review of the potential of the Una Deriem prospect after production costs for future cash flows.
It also involves assessment completing the testing the eastern soil anomaly, which runs parallel and judgment of complex geological models.
The economic, to the main soil anomaly and mineralised zone.
The cessation geological and technical factors used to estimate ore reserves may of activity in Ethiopia resulted in impairment of exploration and change from period to period.
Changes in ore reserves affect the evaluation assets of US$5.9 million in 2015. carrying values of mine properties, property, plant and equipment, provision for rehabilitation assets and deferred taxes.
Ore reserves Going concern are integral to the amount of depreciation and amortisation Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting Council charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income FRC the directors of UK listed companies are required to and the calculation in the valuation of inventory.
consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Production forecasts from the underground mine at Sukari are partly based on estimates regarding future resource and reserve growth.
Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, It should be specifically noted that the potential quantity and grade in which it included any reasonably possible change in the key from the Sukari underground mine is conceptual in nature, that assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the directors there has been insufficient exploration to define a mineral resource have a reasonable expectation that the group will have adequate and that it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the target resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable being delineated as a mineral resource.
Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs litigation as discussed in note 20 to the financial statements: Depreciation of capitalised underground mine development costs forecast gold price: at the Sukari mine is based on reserve estimates.
Management production volumes: and and directors believe that these estimates are both realistic and costs and recovery rates.
conservative, based on current information.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements.
Accounting treatment of Sukari Gold Mines SGM SGM is consolidated within the Centamin group of companies, reflecting the substance and economic reality of the Concession Agreement see note 21 to the financial statements.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 125 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 5.
Revenue An analysis of the groups revenue for the year, from continuing operations, is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Gold sales 506,963 471,776 Silver sales 1,433 805 508,396 472,581 All gold and silver sales during the year were made to a single customer in North America.
Profit before tax Profit for the year has been arrived at after crediting charging the following gains losses and expenses: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Mine production costs 271,019 43,808 314,827 214,370 61,564 275,934 Movement in inventory 4,545 2,931 7,476 2,839 970 1,869 Depreciation and amortisation 93,939 93,939 84,232 84,232 369,503 46,739 416,242 295,763 62,534 358,297 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Finance income Interest received 269 410 Other operating costs Corporate compliance 1,408 1,339 Office related depreciation 111 90 Auditing fees 573 566 Corporate consultants 751 381 Communications and IT 206 248 Employee entitlements 119 116 Salary and wages 6,637 5,150 Travel and accommodation 1,031 897 Office rents and lease payment 185 147 Other administration expenses 634 117 Impairment reversal 526 Insurances 120 111 Rates and taxes 523 Entertainment 181 40 Employee equity settled sharebased payments 2,350 2,491 Fixed royalty attributable to the Egyptian government 15,198 14,144 Foreign exchange gain loss, net 2,141 2,900 Provision for restoration and rehabilitation unwinding of discount 362 538 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,093 27,722 30,368 126 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 6.
Profit before tax continued 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Impairment of assets 1 Impairment of availablefor sale financial assets 526 436 2 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 6,294 2,328 5,768 2,764 1 Refer to note 14 for further details.
2 Refer to note 13 for further details.
exceptional items The directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their unusual, irregular or nonrecurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and underlying business performance.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional items are shown below.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Included in cost of sales Mine production costs 43,808 61,564 Movement in inventory 2,931 970 46,739 62,534 In January 2012 the Company received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would not be able to continue supplying Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that the reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron had received a letter instructing it to do so from the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation EGPC.
It is understood that EGPC itself took the decision to issue this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In addition, during 2012, the Company received a demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received in the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to some US$51 million EGP403 million.
The group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in consequence in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is every prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply, the group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for diesel.
As at the date of the financial statements, no final decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
Furthermore, the group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be concluded in its favour.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has, fully provided against the prepayment of US$208.2 million to 31 December 2015, as an exceptional item, of which US$42.5 million was provided for during 2015 as follows: a a US$43.8 million increase in mine production costs 2014: US$62.5 million increase : b a US$1.3 million decrease in stores inventories 2014: US$0.2 million increase : c a US$2.9 million decrease in mining stockpiles, gold in circuit and finished goods 2014: US$1.0 million decrease.
This has resulted in a net charge of US$46.7 million in the profit and loss.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 127 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 7.
Tax Tax recognised in profit is summarised as follows: tax expense 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Current tax Current tax expense in respect of the current year 6,837 6,837 Deferred tax Total tax expense The group operates in several countries and, accordingly, it is subject to, the various tax regimes in the countries in which it operates.
From time to time the group is subject to a review of its related tax filings and in connection with such reviews, disputes can arise with the taxing authorities over the interpretation or application of certain rules to the groups business conducted within the country involved.
If the group is unable to resolve any of these matters favourably, there may be an adverse impact on the groups financial performance, cash flows or results of operations.
In the event that managements estimate of the future resolution of these matters changes, the group will recognise the effects of the changes in its consolidated financial statements in the period that such changes occur.
In Australia, Centamin Egypt Limited and Pharaoh Gold Mines NL have elected to form a taxconsolidated group and therefore are treated as a single entity for Australian income tax purposes.
Pharaoh Gold Mines NL benefits from the Branch Profits Exemption whereby foreign branch income will generally not be subject to Australian income tax.
Australian tax rules govern the taxation of financial arrangements TOFA and the realisation of foreign exchange gains losses.
The TOFA rules provide that a foreign exchange gain or loss will arise in relation to foreign currency bank accounts to the extent funds have been withdrawn from these accounts during the period.
This foreign exchange gain or loss is calculated by comparing the A$ spot rate at the date of deposit to the A$ spot rate at the date of withdrawal on a firstinfirstout FIFO basis i. e. the first amounts deposited are the first amounts to be withdrawn.
The group made foreign exchange gains for Australian income tax purposes during the year which were assessable when they were realised i. e. when US$ cash balances were withdrawn from Australian bank accounts.
Australian income tax rules contained within subdivision 960D of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 require that where an amount is not in the taxpayers applicable functional currency, the amount is to be converted into the applicable functional currency i. e. Australian dollars.
Accordingly, the withdrawal of US$ bank deposits gave rise to foreign exchange gains for Australian income tax purposes, which were assessable when realised.
In Egypt, Centamin has entered into a concession agreement that provides that the income generated by Sukari Gold Mining Companys activities is granted a longterm tax exemption from all taxes imposed in Egypt.
The tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Profit before income tax 58,407 81,562 1 Tax expense calculated at 0% 2014: 0% of profit before tax Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible taxable in calculating taxable income: Effect of tax different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 6,837 Tax expense for the year 6,837 1 The tax rate used in the above reconciliation is the corporate tax rate of 0% payable by Jersey corporate entities under the Jersey tax law 2014: 0%.
There has been no change in the underlying corporate tax rates when compared to the previous financial period.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Current tax liabilities 6,837 Current tax payable tax consolidation Relevance of tax consolidation to the consolidated entity Companies within the groups wholly owned Australian resident entities formed a taxconsolidated group with effect from 1 July 2003.
The head entity within the taxconsolidated group is Centamin Egypt Limited.
The members of the taxconsolidated group are Pharaoh Gold Mines NL, Viking Resources NL and North African Resources NL.
128 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 7.
Tax continued tax consolidation continued Nature of tax funding arrangements and tax sharing agreements Entities within the taxconsolidated group have entered into a tax funding arrangement and a taxsharing agreement with the head entity.
Under the terms of the taxfunding agreement, Centamin Egypt Limited and each of the entities in the taxconsolidated group has agreed to pay a taxequivalent payment to or from the head entity, based on the current tax liability or current tax asset of the entity.
Such amounts are reflected in amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the taxconsolidated group.
The taxsharing agreement entered into between members of the taxconsolidated group provides for the determination of the allocation of income tax liabilities between the entities should the head entity default on its tax payment obligations.
No amounts have been recognised in the financial statements in respect of this agreement as payment of any amounts under the taxsharing agreement is considered remote.
Segment reporting The group is engaged in the business of exploration and mining of precious metals only, which represents a single operating segment.
The board is the groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent Deposits 60 24 Value added taxation refund 621 60 645 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Current Gold sales debtors 20,472 24,057 Other receivables 3,312 916 23,784 24,973 Trade and other receivables are classified as loans and receivables and are therefore measured at amortised cost.
The average age of the receivables is 14 days 2014: 21 days.
No interest is charged on the receivables.
There are no trade receivables past due and impaired at the reporting date, and thus no allowance for doubtful debts has been recognised.
Of the trade receivables balance, the gold sales debtor is all receivable from Johnson Matthey of Canada.
The amount due has been received in full subsequent to year end.
Other receivables represent GST and VAT amounts owing from the various jurisdictions that the group operates in inventory returns to vendors where refunds are expected to occur.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to their fair value.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 129 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 10.
Prepayments 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Current Prepayments 1,161 1,710 Fuel prepayments 1,161 1,710 1 Movement in fuel prepayments Balance at the beginning of the year Fuel prepayment recognised 42,472 68,737 2 Less: provision charged to: Mine production costs see note 6 43,808 61,564 Property, plant and equipment see note 6 6,953 Inventories see note 6 1,336 220 Balance at the end of the year 1 Refer to note 6, exceptional items, for further details.
2 The cumulative fuel prepayment recognised and provision charged as at 31 December 2015 is as follows: Fuel prepayment recognised US$000 208,204 Provision charged to: Mine production costs US$000 195,156 Property, plant and equipment US$000 11,852 Inventories US$000 1,196 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Noncurrent 3 EMRA 28,750 23,750 28,750 23,750 3 With a view to demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government, PGM made advance payments to EMRA which will be netted off against future profit share that becomes payable to EMRA.
130 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 12.
The review did not lead to a recognition of an impairment loss.
The discount rate used in measuring value in use was 12% per annum and the assumed average gold price was US$1,342 per ounce.
No impairment review was performed in 2014 or 2015 as no indicators of impairment were identified.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 131 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 13.
Exploration and evaluation asset 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 123,999 59,849 Expenditure for the period 34,372 28,841 Acquisition of Ampella Mining Limited 37,637 Impairment of exploration and evaluation asset 6,294 2,328 Balance at the end of the period 152,077 123,999 The exploration and evaluation asset relates to the drilling, geological exploration and sampling of potential ore reserves.
In February 2015, the Company gave formal notice to Alecto Minerals plc Alecto terminating the joint venture agreement entered into between the Company and Centamin in September 2013 with regards to the development of Alectos licences in Ethiopia.
Centamins rights in the Wayuboda and Aysid Metekel licences have reverted back to Alecto, such that Alecto will hold 100% of the licences and will assume responsibility for the ongoing commitments in respect of the licences on termination of the joint venture and have thus written off all expenditure incurred to date, including the acquisition costs in relation to those licences, amounting to US$2.7 million of which US$2.3 million was written off in 2014.
Exploration activities were ceased in Ethiopia in late 2015 with closure of all remaining projects and the subsequent wind up of the Sheba Exploration entities is in progress.
The decision was taken after a review of the potential of the Una Deriem prospect after completing the testing the eastern soil anomaly, which runs parallel to the main soil anomaly and mineralised zone.
The cessation of activity in Ethiopia resulted in impairment of exploration and evaluation assets of US$5.9 million in 2015.
Exploration in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire continues to progress.
Availableforsale financial assets 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Balance at the beginning of the period 409 989 Acquisitions 379 Disposals 91 Gain loss on foreign exchange movement 560 352 Loss on fair value of investment other comprehensive income 212 80 Impairment reversal loss 526 436 Balance at the end of the period 163 409 The availableforsale financial asset at period end relates to a 6.66% 2014: 11.34% equity interest in Nyota Minerals Limited Nyota, a listed public company.
During 2014, management made the decision to sell its interest in Nyota and the financial asset is classed as a current asset.
Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Trade payables 25,461 17,067 Other creditors and accruals 18,508 16,975 43,969 34,042 Trade payables principally comprise the amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 22 days 2014: 16 days.
Trade payables are interest free for periods ranging from 30 to 180 days.
Thereafter interest is charged at commercial rates.
The group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the credit timeframe.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximate their fair value.
132 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 16.
Provisions 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Current 1 Employee benefits 576 307 576 307 Noncurrent 2 Restoration and rehabilitation 7,139 3,015 7,139 3,015 Movement in restoration and rehabilitation provision Balance at beginning of the year 3,015 7,638 Additional provision recognised provision derecognised 3,762 5,161 Interest expense unwinding of discount 362 538 Balance at end of the year 7,139 3,015 1 Employee benefits relate to annual, sick and long service leave entitlements.
2 The provision for restoration and rehabilitation represents the present value of the directors best estimate of the future outflow of economic benefits that will be required to remove the facilities and restore the affected areas at the groups sites discounted by 8.17% 2014: 12.00%.
This restoration and rehabilitation estimate, which is reviewed on annual basis, has been made on the basis of benchmark assessments of restoration works required following mine closure and after taking into account the projected area to be disturbed over the life of the mine, being 20 years.
The annual review undertaken as at 31 December 2015 has resulted in the US$3.8 million increase in the provision.
Issued capital 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Number US$000 Number US$000 Fully paid ordinary shares Balance at beginning of the period 1,152,107,984 661,573 1,101,397,381 612,463 Issue of shares 38 50,710,603 48,218 Own shares acquired during the period 1,743 Transfer to share option reserve 3,979 2,635 Balance at end of the period 1,152,107,984 665,590 1,152,107,984 661,573 The authorised share capital is an unlimited number of no par value shares.
1 At 31 December 2015 the Company held 5,659,709 ordinary shares in treasury 2014: 9,821,383 ordinary shares.
These shares are held by the trustee pursuant to the deferred bonus share plan.
Fully paid ordinary shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
See note 27 for more details of the share options.
1 Refers to shares held by the trustee pursuant to the deferred bonus share plan.
Reserves 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve 2,469 4,098 2,469 4,098 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Share option reserve Balance at beginning of the period 4,098 5,761 Sharebased payments expense 2,456 2,493 Transfer to accumulated profits 106 1,521 Transfer to issued capital 3,979 2,635 Balance at the end of the period 2,469 4,098 The share option reserve arises on the grant of share options to employees under the employee share option plan.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve and into issued capital when the options and warrants are exercised vested.
Amounts are transferred out of the reserve into accumulated profits when the options and warrants are forfeited.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 133 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 19.
Commitments for expenditure a capital expenditure commitments 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 1 Plant and equipment No longer than one year Longer than one year and not longer than five years Longer than five years 1 As a result of the completion of Stage 4, the group had no commitments for capital expenditure as at 31 December 2015. b Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Office premises No longer than one year 68 63 Longer than one year and not longer than five years 119 195 187 258 Operating lease commitments are limited to office premises in Jersey.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets contingent liabilities Fuel supply In January 2012, the group received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to supply Diesel Fuel Oil DFO to the mine at Sukari at international prices rather than at local subsidised prices.
It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State an internal government advisory department that the companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such subsidies.
In November 2012, the group received a further demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received during the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, amounting to EGP403 million approximately US$51 million at current exchange rates.
The group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst the matter is resolved, the group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, Chevron, based on the international price for fuel.
As at the date of this document, no decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court proceeding be successfully concluded.
However, management recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has fully provided against the prepayment of US$208.0 million, as an exceptional item.
Refer to note 6 of the accompanying financial statements for further details on the impact of this exceptional provision on the groups results for 2015.
No provision has been made in respect of the historic subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes that the prospects of a court finding in its favour in relation to this matter remain very strong.
134 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 20.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets continued contingent liabilities continued Concession Agreement court case On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, amongst others, an independent member of a previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the agreement that confers on the group rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority EMRA and Centamins wholly owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines PGM, and was approved by the Peoples Assembly as Law 222 of 1994.
In summary that judgment states that, although the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, insufficient evidence had 2 exploitation lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval been submitted to court in order to demonstrate that the 160km from the relevant minister as required by the terms of the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the court found that the exploitation lease 2 2 in respect of the area of 160km was not valid although it stated that there was in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 3km.
2 Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed original lease documentation which clearly shows that the 160km exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an executed original document was not supplied to the court.
Upon notification of the judgment the group took various steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine at Sukari.
These included lodging a formal appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November 2012.
In addition, in conjunction with the formal appeal the group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as the court was able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
On 20 March 2013 the court upheld this application thus suspending the initial decision and providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue whilst the appeal process is underway.
EMRA has lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter which is supportive of the Companys position in this matter.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
The Company believes this demonstrates the governments commitment to its investment at Sukari and the desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from a number of leading Egyptian law firms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
In addition, the Company has been advised that it should benefit from Law no.
32 of 2014, which came into force in April 2014 and which restricts the capacity for third parties to challenge any contractual agreement between the Egyptian government and an investor.
This law, whilst in force and ratified by the new parliament, is currently under review by the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt.
It therefore remains of the view that the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the group, the operations at Sukari 2 may be adversely effected to the extent that the groups operation exceeds the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal process is underway.
Centamin does not currently see the need to take the matter to a court outside of Egypt as Centamin remains of the belief that the Egyptian Court will rule in Centamins favour.
contingent assets There were no contingent assets at year end 31 December 2014: nil.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 135 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 21.
Subsidiaries The parent entity of the group is Centamin plc, incorporated in Jersey, and the details of its subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership interest 31 December 31 December Country of 2015 2014 incorporation % % Centamin Egypt Limited Australia 100 100 Viking Resources Limited Australia 100 100 North African Resources NL Australia 100 100 Pharaoh Gold Mines NL Australia 100 100 Sukari Gold Mining Co Egypt 50 50 Centamin UK Limited voluntarily struck off United Kingdom 100 1 Sheba Exploration Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Centamin Group Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Centamin Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 Sheba Exploration Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Centamin Limited Bermuda 100 100 Centamin West Africa Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Ampella Mining Limited Australia 100 100 Ampella Share Plan Ltd Australia 100 100 Ampella Mining Gold Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 West African Gold Reserve Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 Ampella Mining Gold SARL Burkina Faso 100 100 Ampella Mining SARL Burkina Faso 100 100 Ampella Mining Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 100 Centamin Cte dIvoire Cte dIvoire 100 Ampella Mining Exploration CDI Cte dIvoire 100 Ampella Resources Burkina Faso Burkina Faso 100 Konkera SA Burkina Faso 90 1 Previously Sheba Exploration UK Plc.
Through its wholly owned subsidiary, PGM, the Company entered into the Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Arab Republic of Egypt granting PGM and EMRA the right to explore, develop, mine and sell gold and associated minerals in specific concession areas located in the Eastern Desert of Egypt.
The Concession Agreement came into effect under Egyptian law on 13 June 1995.
2 In 2005 PGM, together with EMRA, were granted an exploitation lease over 160km surrounding the Sukari Project site.
The exploitation lease was signed by PGM, EMRA and the Egyptian Minister of Petroleum and gives tenure for a period of 30 years, commencing 24 May 2005 and extendable by PGM for an additional 30 years upon PGM providing reasonable commercial justification.
In 2006 SGM was incorporated under the laws of Egypt.
SGM was formed to conduct exploration, development, exploitation and marketing operations in accordance with the Concession Agreement.
Responsibility for the daytoday management of the project rests with the general manager, who is appointed by PGM.
The fiscal terms of the Concession Agreement require that PGM solely funds SGM.
PGM is however entitled to recover from sales revenue recoverable costs, as defined in the Concession Agreement.
EMRA is entitled to a share of SGMs net production surplus or profit share defined as revenue less payment of the fixed royalty to ARE and recoverable costs.
As at 31 December 2015, PGM has not recovered its cost and accordingly, no EMRA entitlement has been recognised to date.
It is anticipated that the first payment to EMRA will become payable during 2017.
Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to these provisions of the Concession Agreement will be recognised as a variable charge in the income statement.
136 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 21.
Subsidiaries continued The Concession Agreement grants certain tax exemptions, including the following: from 1 April 2010, being the date of commercial production, the Sukari Project is entitled to a 15year exemption from any taxes imposed by the Egyptian government on the revenues generated from the Sukari Project.
PGM and EMRA intend that SGM will in due course file an application to extend the tax free period for a further 15 years.
The extension of the tax free period requires that there has been no tax problems or disputes in the initial period and that certain activities in new remote areas have been planned and agreed by all parties: PGM and SGM are exempt from custom taxes and duties with respect to the importation of machinery, equipment and consumable items required for the purpose of exploration and mining activities at the Sukari Gold Mine.
The exemption shall only apply if there is no local substitution with the same or similar quality to the imported machinery, equipment or consumables.
Such exemption will also be granted if the local substitution is more than 10% more expensive than the imported machinery, equipment or consumables after the additional of the insurance and transportation costs: PGM, EMRA and SGM and their respective buyers will be exempt from any duties or taxes on the export of gold and associated minerals produced from the Sukari Gold Mine: PGM at all times is free to transfer in US$ or other freely convertible foreign currency any cash of PGM representing its share of net proceeds and recovery of costs, without any Egyptian government limitation, tax or duty: PGMs contractors and subcontractors are entitled to import machinery.
Equipment and consumable items under the Temporary Release System which provided exemption from Egyptian customs duty: and legal title of all operating assets of PGM will pass to EMRA when cost recovery is completed.
The right of use of all fixed and movable assets remains with PGM and SGM.
Auditors remuneration The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 375 300 Additional fees relating to the prior year Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services to the group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 150 100 Total audit fees 525 400 Nonaudit fees: Audit related assurance services interim review 104 100 Other assurance services 22 125 Tax compliance services Tax advisory services Other expenses 14 Total nonaudit fees 140 225 The audit and risk committee and the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for nonaudit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been preapproved.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the audit and risk committee.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 137 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements 23.
Joint arrangements The consolidated entity has an interest in the following joint arrangement: Percentage interest 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Name of joint operation % % 1 Egyptian Pharaoh Investments 50 50 1 Dormant company.
The group has a US$1 cash interest in the above joint operation.
The amount is included in the consolidated financial statements of the group.
There are no capital commitments arising from the groups interests in joint operation are disclosed in note 19.
Earnings per share 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Cents per share Cents per share Basic earnings per share 4.506 7.208 Diluted earnings per share 4.441 7.113 Basic earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of basic EPS 51,570 81,562 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,144,499,697 1,131,521,652 Diluted earnings per share The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Earnings used in the calculation of diluted EPS 51,570 81,562 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 1,144,499,697 1,131,521,652 Shares deemed to be issued for no consideration in respect of employee options 16,649,502 15,098,842 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS 1,161,149,199 1,146,620,494 No potential ordinary shares were excluded from the calculation of weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share.
138 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 25.
Notes to the statements of cash flows a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand and at bank and deposits.
31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Cash and cash equivalents 199,616 125,659 b Reconciliation of profit for the year to cash flows from operating activities 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Profit for the year 51,570 81,562 Add less noncash items: Depreciation amortisation of property, plant and equipment 94,051 84,290 Stock writeoff 11 Increase decrease in provisions 11,231 5,234 Foreign exchange rate gain loss 3,471 4,455 Impairment reversal of loss on availableforsale financial assets 526 436 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,093 Impairment of exploration and evaluation assets 6,294 2,328 Sharebased payments expense 2,350 2,493 Changes in working capital during the period: Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 1,188 454 Decrease increase in inventories 5,853 5,359 Decrease increase in prepayments 549 4,832 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 16,722 44,885 Cash flows generated from operating activities 185,811 116,812 c noncash financing and investing activities During the year there have been no noncash financing and investing activities.
In 2014 there was the Ampella asset acquisition as disclosed in note 13.
Financial instruments a Group risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the cash and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from the previous financial period.
The group has no debt and thus not geared at year end or in the prior year.
The capital structure consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves as disclosed in notes 17 and 18.
The group operates in Australia, Jersey, Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
None of the groups entities are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
The group utilises inflows of funds toward the ongoing exploration and development of the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, and the exploration projects in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 139 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements categories of financial assets and liabilities: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Availableforsale assets 163 409 Cash and cash equivalents 199,616 125,659 Trade and other receivables 23,844 25,618 223,623 151,686 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 43,969 34,042 43,969 34,042 b Financial risk management and objectives The groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential risk adverse effects and ensure that net cash flows are sufficient to support the delivery of the groups financial targets whilst protecting future financial security.
The group continually monitors and tests its forecast financial position against these objectives.
The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market: commodity: credit: liquidity: foreign exchange: and interest rate.
These risks are managed under board approved directives through the audit committee.
The groups principal financial instruments comprise interest bearing cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial instruments include trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from operations.
It is, and has been throughout the period under review, group policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
c market risk The group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the Australian dollar, Great British pound and Egyptian pound.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency.
The risk is measured by regularly monitoring, forecasting and performing sensitivity analyses on the groups financial position.
Financial instruments denominated in Great British pound, Australian dollar and Egyptian pound are as follows: Great British pound Australian dollar Egyptian pound 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 332 127 2,800 5,919 1,411 1,246 Availableforsale assets 146 390 17 19 478 517 2,817 5,938 1,411 1,246 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 390 1,476 10,905 1,161 9,402 7,311 390 1,476 10,905 1,161 9,402 7,311 Net exposure 88 959 8,088 4,777 7,991 6,065 140 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 26.
Financial instruments continued c market risk continued The following table summarises the sensitivity of financial instruments held at the reporting date to movements in the exchange rate of the Great British and Egyptian pounds and Australian dollar to the United States dollar, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivities are based on reasonably possible changes over a financial period, using the observed range of actual historical rates.
Impact on profit Impact on equity 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 2015 2014 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$ GB increase by 10% 35 123 13 35 US$ GB decrease by 10% 35 123 13 35 US$ A$ increase by 10% 737 483 1 2 US$ A$ decrease by 10% 737 483 1 2 US$ E increase by 10% 726 463 US$ E decrease by 10% 726 463 The groups sensitivity to foreign currency has decreased at the end of the current period mainly due to the decrease in foreign currency cash holdings in Australian dollars and a corresponding increase in US dollar cash holdings.
The group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts.
Natural hedges are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
The Company maintains a policy of not hedging its currency positions and maintains currency holdings in line with underlying requirements and commitments.
d commodity price risk The groups future revenue forecasts are exposed to commodity price fluctuations, in particular gold prices.
The group has not entered into forward gold hedging contracts.
e interest rate risk The groups main interest rate risk arises from cash and shortterm deposits and is not considered to be a material risk due to the shortterm nature of these financial instruments.
Cash deposits are placed on term period of no more than 30 days at a time.
The financial instruments exposed to interest rate risk and the groups exposure to interest rate risk as at balance date were as follows: Weighted average One to More than effective Less than twelve twelve interest rate one month months months Total % US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2015 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.22 53,471 146,093 199,564 Noninterest bearing 24,059 24,059 77,530 146,093 223,623 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 43,969 43,969 43,969 43,969 31 December 2014 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 0.23 26,863 98,770 125,633 Noninterest bearing 26,053 26,053 52,916 98,770 151,686 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 34,042 34,042 34,042 34,042 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 141 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements f liquidity risk The groups liquidity position is managed to ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet its financial commitments in a timely and cost effective manner.
Ultimate responsibility or liquidity risk management rests with the board of directors, who has established an appropriate management framework for the management of the groups funding requirements.
The group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and management monitors rolling forecasts of the groups liquidity on the basis of expected cash flow.
The tables above reflect a balanced view of cash inflows and outflows and shows the implied risk based on those values.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities originate from the financing of assets used in the groups ongoing operations.
These assets are considered in the groups overall liquidity risk.
Management continually reviews the group liquidity position including cash flow forecasts to determine the forecast liquidity position and maintain appropriate liquidity levels.
One to More than Less than twelve twelve one month months months Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2015 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 53,471 146,093 199,564 Noninterest bearing 25,531 25,531 79,002 146,093 225,095 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 43,969 43,969 43,969 43,969 31 December 2014 Financial assets Variable interest rate instruments 26,863 98,770 125,633 Noninterest bearing 25,325 49,075 52,188 98,770 174,708 Financial liabilities Variable interest rate instruments Noninterest bearing 34,042 34,042 34,042 34,042 g credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral or other security where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The group measures credit risk on a fair value basis.
The groups credit risk is concentrated on one entity, but the group has good credit checks on customers and none of the trade receivables from the customer has been past due.
Also, the cash balances held in Australian dollars which are held with a financial institution with a high credit rating.
The gross carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the groups maximum exposure to credit risk without taking account of the value of collateral or other security obtained.
142 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 26.
Financial instruments continued h Fair value The carrying amount of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the financial statements represents their respective fair values, principally as a consequence of the short term maturity thereof.
i Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
2015 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Availableforsale financial assets 163 163 2014 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Availableforsale financial assets 409 409 There were no financial assets or liabilities subsequently measured at fair value on Level 3 fair value measurement bases.
Sharebased payments Restricted share plan The Companys new restricted share plan, as approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2015, allows the Company the right to grant awards as defined below to employees of the group.
Awards may take the form of either conditional share awards, where shares are transferred conditionally upon the satisfaction of performance conditions: or share options, which may take the form of nil cost options or have a nominal exercise price, the exercise of which is again subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.
To date the Company has granted 5,145,000 conditional awards to employees of the group.
A detailed summary of the scheme rules is set out in the 2015 AGM proxy materials which are available at www.
In summary, awards will vest following the passing of three years from the date of the award and vesting will be subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
For the purpose of the performance conditions, the award will be divided into up to three tranches to be assessed against separate performance conditions measured over a three year period.
Although the precise performance conditions may vary between awards, the performance conditions adopted at the date of the plan which apply to the first grant are as follows: 20% of the award shall be assessed by reference to a target total shareholder return TSR.
50% of the award shall be assessed by reference to absolute growth in earnings per share EPS.
30% of the award shall be assessed by reference to compound growth in gold production.
The above measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the remuneration committee will have regard to market practice when establishing the precise performance conditions for future awards.
Where the performance conditions have been met, in the case of conditional awards, 50% of the total shares under the award will be issued or transferred to the award holders on or as soon as possible following the specified vesting date, with the remaining 50% being issued or transferred on the second anniversary of the vesting date.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 143 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements Restricted share plan RsP awards granted during the period: RSP 2015 Grant date 4 June 2015 Number of instruments 5,145,000 1 TSR: fair value at grant date 0.5150 1 TSR: fair value at grant date US$ 0.7894 1 EPS: fair value at grant date 0.6520 1 EPS: fair value at grant date US$ 0.9994 1 Gold production: fair value at grant date 0.6520 1 Gold production: fair value at grant date US$ 0.9994 Vesting period years 3 Expected volatility % 0 72.33 Expected dividend yield % 1.97 1 The vesting of 20% the awards granted under this plan are dependent on a TSR performance condition.
As relative TSR is defined as a market condition under IFRS 2 Sharebased payment, this requires that the valuation model used takes into account the anticipated performance outcome.
We have therefore applied a MonteCarlo simulation model.
The simulation model takes into account the probability of performance based on the expected volatility of Centamin and the peer group companies and the expected correlation of returns between the companies in the comparator group.
The remaining 80% of the awards are subject to EPS and gold production performance conditions.
As these are classified as nonmarket conditions under IFRS 2 they do not need to be taken into account when determining the fair value.
These grants have been valued using a BlackScholes model.
The fair value calculated was then converted at the closing :US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
The awards due to be granted in April 2016 will vest following the passing of three years.
Vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and the two year holding period for 50% of the award which will be divided into four tranches, as set out on pages 96 and 97 of the directors remuneration report.
The above measures are assessed by reference to current market practice and the remuneration committee will have regard to current market practice when establishing the precise performance conditions for awards.
Deferred bonus share plan DBsP In 2012, the Company implemented the DBSP which is a long term share incentive arrangement for senior management but not executive directors and other employees participants.
On 4 June 2013, the group offered to both the beneficiaries of the shares awarded under the ELFSP and to the majority of the beneficiaries of the options granted under the EOS the choice to replace their awards and options with awards under the DBSP.
The group has accounted for this change as modifications to the sharebased payment plans and will be recognising the incremental fair value granted, measured in accordance with IFRS 2, by this replacement over the vesting period of the new DBSP awards.
Under this offer, each participant has been granted a number of awards under the DBSP equivalent to the number of shares or options held under the ELFSP and EOS respectively.
Such DBSP awards shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the DBSP and shall ordinarily vest in three equal tranches on the anniversary of the grant date, conditional upon the continued employment with the group.
All offers made to participants were accepted.
The award of the deferred shares will not have any performance criteria attached.
They will however be subject to a service period.
Historic plans The historic plans, namely the executive directors loan funded share plan EDLFSP and employee loan funded share plan ELFSP 2011 Employee Option Scheme EOS are no longer in use and all shares awarded have either being forfeited, lapsed or transferred to other schemes.
The residual accrual in relation to these schemes has been expensed to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
144 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 28.
Key management personnel compensation Key management personnel are persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive or otherwise of the group.
The aggregate compensation made to key management personnel of the consolidated entity and the Company is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2015 2014 US$ US$ Shortterm employee benefits 6,184,750 7,567,732 Longterm employee benefits 1,642 Postemployment benefits 22,025 59,285 Sharebased payments 1,810,805 2,106,223 Total 8,017,580 9,734,882 29.
Related party transactions a equity interests in related parties Equity interests in subsidiaries Details of the percentage of ordinary shares held in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 21.
Equity interests in associates and jointly controlled arrangements Details of interests in joint ventures are disclosed in note 23. b Key management personnel compensation Details of key management personnel compensation are disclosed above in note 28. c Key management personnel equity holdings The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period ended 31 December 2015 are as follows: Balance at Granted as Received Balance at Balance 1 January remuneration on exercise Net other 31 December held 1 31 December 2015 2015 DBSP of options change 2015 nominally J ElRaghy 71,445,086 71,445,086 T Schultz 30,000 30,000 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 15,000 34,000 49,000 M Bankes 150,000 150,000 K Tomlinson 24,400 24,400 P Louw 2,137,500 500,000 112,000 2,525,500 A Pardey 2,185,000 900.000 116,200 2,968,800 R Osman 800,000 300,000 116,666 983,334 H Brown 550,000 100,000 650,000 D Le Masurier 300,000 200,000 500,000 L Gregory 300,000 150,000 20,000 430,000 Y ElRaghy 637,414 200,000 56,781 780,633 T Smith 400,000 25,000 375,000 L Sobey 390,000 390,000 A Davidson 450,000 200,000 30,000 620,000 1 Net other change relates to the on market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary shares, including the forfeiture of shares awarded under the LFSP and DBSP and the replacement of awards under the ELFSP with shares awarded under the DBSP.
Since 31 December 2015 to the date of this report there have been no transactions notified to the Company under DTR 3.1.
R. Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 145 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements The details of the movement in key management personnel equity holdings of fully paid ordinary shares in Centamin plc during the financial period ended 31 December 2014 are as follows: Balance at Granted as Received Balance at Balance 1 January remuneration on exercise Net other 31 December held 1 31 December 2014 2014 DBSP of options change 2014 nominally J ElRaghy 71,445,086 71,445,086 T Schultz 1,030,000 1,000,000 30,000 G Haslam 102,056 102,056 M Arnesen 15,000 15,000 M Bankes 120,000 30,000 150,000 K Tomlinson 24,400 24,400 P Louw 1,737,500 400,000 2,137,500 A Pardey 1,785,000 400,000 2,185,000 R Osman 600,000 200,000 800,000 H Brown 475,000 75,000 550,000 D Le Masurier 300,000 300,000 L Gregory 300,000 300,000 Y ElRaghy 510,000 170,000 42,586 637,414 T Smith 300,000 300,000 L Sobey 300,000 100,000 10,000 390,000 A Davidson 450,000 450,000 1 Net other change relates to the on market acquisition or disposal of fully paid ordinary shares, including the forfeiture of shares awarded under the LFSP and DBSP and the replacement of awards under the ELFSP with shares awarded under the DBSP.
d Key management personnel share option holdings There were no options held, granted or exercised during the year by directors or senior management in respect of ordinary shares in Centamin plc.
e Other transactions with key management personnel The related party transaction for the year ended 31 December 2015 is summarised below: Josef ElRaghy is a director and shareholder of ElRaghy Kriewaldt Pty Ltd ElRaghy Kriewaldt.
ElRaghy Kriewaldt provides office premises to the Company.
All dealings with ElRaghy Kriewaldt are in the ordinary course of business and on normal terms and conditions.
Rent and office outgoings paid to ElRaghy Kriewaldt during the period were A$62,595 or US$46,820 31 December 2014: A$57,898 or US$51,920.
f transactions with the government of egypt Royalty costs attributable to the government of Egypt of US$15,197,860 2014: US$14,143,710 were incurred in 2015.
With a view to demonstrating goodwill toward the Egyptian government during the year PGM has made advance payments to EMRA of US$5,000,000 2014: US$4,800,000 which will be netted off against any future profit share that becomes payable to EMRA.. g transactions with other related parties Other related parties include the parent entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
During the financial period, the Company recognised tax payable in respect of the tax liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Payments to from the Company are made in accordance with terms of the tax funding arrangement.
During the financial period the Company provided funds to and received funding from subsidiaries.
All amounts advanced to related parties are unsecured.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties.
Transactions and balances between the Company and its subsidiaries were eliminated in the preparation of consolidated financial statements of the group.
146 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 Financial statements notes to the Consolidated finanCial statements continued for the year ended 31 December 2015 30.
Dividends per share The dividends paid in 2015 were US$33,786,831 and are reflected in the consolidated statement of the changes in equity for the period 2014: US$9,923,308.
A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 1.97 US cents per share, totalling US$22,696,527 has been approved by the board of directors and is subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 11 May 2016.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
Subsequent events As referred to in note 30 subsequent to the year end, the board of directors announced the approval of a final dividend for 2015 of 1.97 US cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 11 May 2016, the final dividend will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders on the register as of 22 April 2016.
There were no other significant events occurring after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
