Notes to the financial statements 1.
Summary of significant accounting policies Use of estimates and assumptions General information The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS requires The Group is a specialty biopharmaceutical group focused on the the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that development and commercialisation of a range of allergy, asthma and affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of respiratory products.
the financial information and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and judgements Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc is a public limited company which is are continually made and are based on historic experience and other listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be in England and Wales.
The Company is resident in England and the reasonable in the circumstances.
registered office is The Magdalen Centre, Robert Robinson Avenue, Oxford Science Park, Oxford, Oxfordshire, England, OX4 4GA.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Where the Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of this future, the resulting accounting estimates will seldom exactly match financial information are set out below.
These policies have been actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant consistently applied to all the financial years presented, unless risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets otherwise stated.
and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
Basis of preparation Business combinations The financial information has been prepared in accordance with The Group accounts for all business combinations under the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the acquisition method.
Under the acquisition method, the identifiable European Union IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC IC assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed interpretations endorsed by the European Union and with those parts are measured at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Judgements of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under are made in determining the basis on which goodwill arising on IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical business combinations is allocated to cash generating units CGUs.
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as stated Management have determined that the goodwill arising on the in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
acquisition of Aerocrine should be allocated between the Aerocrine and Going concern Circassia CGUs in proportion to the discounted cash flows attributable Though the Group continues to make losses, the Directors have to these CGUs, which are each expected to benefit from the sales reviewed the current and projected financial position of the Group, force and commercial infrastructure available to the Group as a result taking into account existing cash balances.
On the basis of this of the acquisition of Aerocrine.
Management have determined that the review, the Directors have not identified any material uncertainties to goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Prosonix Limited should be the Groups ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of allocated to Prosonix Limited, being the CGU for impairment testing accounting for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval purposes.
Estimates are made in relation to the cash flow forecasts, of the financial statements.
probability factors and discount rates used for this purpose.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures Fair value of acquired assets a New and amended standards adopted by the Group: Intangibles Technology In estimating the fair value of Technology, a variation of the Income Annual improvements 2011 - 2013 effective 1 July 2014 endorsed for Approach called the Relief from Royalty Method is used.
This 1 January 2015 methodology is considered the standard and preferred technique b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards to value assets such as trademark, core technology and patents.
that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Intangibles Customer Relationships and IPR&D Group: The Customer Relationships and IPR&D have been valued based IFRS 9 Financial instruments, on Classification and measurement on the Excess Earnings Method.
This valuation method is based on effective 1 January 2018, not EU endorsed.
This is the first part of a discounting the cash flows that can be attributed to the intangible new standard on classification and measurement of financial assets asset, after taking into account the contribution of other assets.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: Deferred tax amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured Deferred tax assets have been recognised in relation to tax losses at fair value.
carried forward in Aerocrine and Prosonix, but only to the extent of A debt instrument is at amortised cost only if the entity is holding deferred tax liabilities arising in the same jurisdictions as the brought it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent forward losses.
Management have concluded that it is not yet probable principal and interest.
Otherwise it is at fair value through profit or loss.
that taxable profits will be available in the relevant jurisdictions to utilise Amortised cost accounting will also be applicable for most financial brought forward losses in excess of deferred tax liabilities.
Judgement liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded derivatives.
The main change is is required in making this determination.
Management anticipate that in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, that taxable profits will be considered probable for the purposes of the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recognising deferred tax assets under IAS 12 only when there is a recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income stable history of profitability in those tax jurisdictions.
statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group Share issue costs is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 on its financial information.
The In June 2015 the Group completed an offer and placement of new Group will also consider the impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9. shares to finance the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix.
Under IFRS 15 Revenue from contract with customers effective from IFRS incremental costs that are directly attributable to an equity 1 January 2018, not EU endorsed, IFRIC 21 Levies effective from transaction that otherwise would have been avoided had the equity 1 January and IFRS 16 Leases effective from 1 January 2019, not instruments not been issued are accounted for through equity.
Any yet EU endorsed is currently being assessed for the future impact on acquisition related costs for example due diligence must be expensed the Group.
There is a level of judgement in determining which costs meet the criteria of an There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not equity transaction.
yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 92 Goodwill and other intangible assets Financial instruments The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other intangible The Groups financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents, assets have suffered any impairment.
The key assumptions used for short-term bank deposits, receivables and payables arising directly the value in use calculations are given in note 13, and in particular the from operations.
anticipated launch date of products currently under development.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and short-term If the Group is unable to obtain regulatory approval or to commercialise deposits which have an original maturity of three months or less and its product candidates, or experiences significant delays in doing so, are readily convertible into known amounts of cash.
Such assets are this could result in an impairment of the related goodwill and intellectual classified as current, where management intend to dispose of the asset property rights.
within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Bank deposits with Share based payments maturity of more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period Options were valued using the Black Scholes option pricing model or the are classified as non-current assets.
Monte Carlo Simulation depending on the type of option issued.
For each Where derivatives exist in the financial year, they are initially recognised relevant option grant, individual valuation assumptions were assessed at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are based upon conditions at the date of grant.
The range of assumptions subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each reporting date, in the calculation of share based payments is given in note 24. with any resulting gain or loss recognised through profit or loss.
Consolidation The Group does not have any committed borrowing facilities, as its Subsidiaries cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits are sufficient to finance Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which its current operations.
Cash balances are mainly held on short and the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group medium term deposits with quality financial institutions, in line with the is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement Groups policy to minimise the risk of loss.
The main risks associated with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its with the Groups financial instruments relate to interest rate risk and power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date foreign currency risk note 2. on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, Leases balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
consistent with the policies adopted by the Group.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight line Joint arrangements basis over the period of the lease.
The Group has applied IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements since 1 January 2013.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements Goodwill and Intangible assets are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending Intangible fixed assets, relating to goodwill, customer relationships, on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
Circassia technology and intellectual property rights acquired through licensing Pharmaceuticals plc has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements or assigning patents and know-how are carried at historic cost, less and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accumulated amortisation, where the useful economic life of the accounted for using the equity method.
asset is finite and the asset will probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements cost of intangible assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows: in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses Intangible asset Estimated useful lives in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the joint ventures which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of IPR&D 5 10 years the Groups net investment in the joint ventures, the Group does not Customer Relationships 18 years recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Technology 15 20 years Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries represents joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition date transferred.
Accounting policies of the joint ventures have been fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business Segmental reporting combination is allocated to each of the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that The Group has three business segments, Allergy, Respiratory, and are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
This is consistent with the internal reporting provided to unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decisionthe lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing internal management purposes.
Goodwill is monitored at the operating performance, has been identified as the Executive Directors, who make segment level.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more Clinical study expenses frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential Where payments to clinical study sites are made in advance for impairment.
The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill the purchase of stocks of materials for use in clinical studies, the is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value relevant costs are included in receivables as prepaid clinical study in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
Expenses are charged to the income statement as clinical recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently study services are carried out by third party suppliers, or clinical study reversed.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 93 Notes to the financial statements continued Where an acquired intangible asset is not yet available for use in the Property, plant and equipment manner intended by management, the asset is tested annually for Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less impairment by allocating the assets to the CGUs to which they relate.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly Amortisation would commence when product candidates underpinned attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are by the intellectual property rights become available for commercial included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate use.
Amortisation would be calculated on a straight line basis over the asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic shorter of the remaining useful life of the intellectual property or the benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the estimated sales life of the product candidates.
cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of replaced parts is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance Expenditure on product development is capitalised as an intangible are charged to the income statement during the financial period in asset and amortised over the expected useful economic life of the which they are incurred.
Capitalisation commences from the point at which technical feasibility and commercial viability of the Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the product candidate can be demonstrated and the Group is satisfied that cost of assets over their estimated useful lives, as follows: it is probable that future economic benefits will result from the product candidate once completed.
Capitalisation ceases when the product Property, plant and equipment Depreciation rate candidate receives regulatory approval for launch.
No such costs have Leasehold improvements Over the life of the unbreakable been capitalised to date.
portion of the lease Expenditure on research and development activities that do not meet Plant and equipment 10% - 33% the above criteria, including ongoing costs associated with acquired intellectual property rights and intellectual property rights generated Fixtures and fittings 20% internally by the Group, is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Individually significant tangible assets that are intended to be held by Intellectual property and in-process research and development from the Group for use in the production or supply of goods and services or acquisitions are recognised as intangible assets at fair value.
Any for administrative purposes and that are expected to provide economic residual excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets in benefit for more than one year are capitalised.
All other assets of an acquisition is recognised as goodwill in the financial statements.
insignificant value are charged to the income statement in the year Computer Software of acquisition.
Expenditure on software costs are capitalised as an intangible asset Costs incurred relating to an asset that is not yet complete are and amortised over the expected useful economic life of the software.
capitalised and held as Assets under construction until they are Until such an asset is fully developed, the costs are capitalised and brought into use.
The asset is then transferred to the appropriate classified within intangibles assets as Software in development.
These asset class and depreciated in line with the policy above.
costs are not amortised until the software has been fully developed and operational, at which point the total cost of the software development is Trade and other receivables amortised over its estimated useful life.
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any provisions for doubtful debts.
Provisions are made where there Inventories is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, Inventories are valued at the lower of the acquisition cost and the net previous experience and general economic conditions.
The FIFO first in, first out principle is used to calculate receivable is determined to be un-collectable, it is written off, firstly the value of inventories.
Inventories mainly comprise products for sale against any provision available and then to the income statement.
and stocks of components for the service activities in Sweden and the Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are credited US.
The acquisition value comprises all expenses for purchases.
The to the income statement.
Other receivables are recognised initially at net realisable value is the expected sale price less expected costs for fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the preparation and selling.
effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for Impairment of non-financial assets impairment of other receivables is established when there is objective Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill or evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due intangible assets not ready for use, are not subject to amortisation according to the original terms of the receivables.
and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject Trade payables to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently held at which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, as non-current liabilities.
assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Charges or credits for impairment are passed through the income statement.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 94 Cash and cash equivalents Other employee benefits In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash The expected cost of compensated short-term absence e. g. holidays equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, is recognised when employees render services that increased their and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities entitlement.
An accrual is made for holidays earned but not taken, and of three months or less from the date of original investment.
prepayments recognised for holidays taken in excess of days earned.
Share capital Revenue Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Revenue is shown net of value added tax and trade discounts and after elimination of intra-Group sales.
Income is Employee benefit costs reported as follows: The Group makes contributions to defined contribution personal pension schemes for its Directors and employees.
The pension cost Sale of goods charge recognised in the year represents amounts payable by the The Group sells medical technology equipment that enables Group to the funds.
The Group has no further payment obligations inflammation of the airways to be measured as well as consumable once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are items and spare parts.
Sales are reported as income when the recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
significant risks and benefits have transferred to the buyer and the seller no longer has any significant control over the goods.
The Group Share based payments provides 12 month guarantees for certain products and includes a The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share based provision for estimated future claims.
compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Licence income Group.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange Technology and product licensing revenue represents amounts earned for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total for licences granted under licensing agreements, including up-front amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value payments, milestone payments and technology access fees.
Revenues of the options granted: are recognised when this income becomes non-refundable under the terms of the licence and where the Groups obligations related to including the effect of any market performance conditions the revenues have been completed.
Refundable licensing revenue is for example, an entitys share price : treated as deferred until such time that it is no longer refundable.
In excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance general, up-front payments are deferred and amortised in line with the vesting conditions for example, profitability, sales growth targets period of development.
Milestone payments relating to defined project and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time achievements are recognised as income when the milestone period : and is accomplished.
including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for example, the requirement for employees to save.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an accrued basis and represents income earned as a percentage of product sales in accordance with Non-market performance and service conditions are included in the relevant agreement net of any amounts contractually payable to assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
others under the terms of the relevant royalty agreement.
The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be Foreign currency translation satisfied.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to year.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
The fair value of employee services received, exchange differences are taken to the statement of comprehensive measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised income in the year in which they arise and presented within Finance over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary costs or income.
undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity in the parent entity financial statements.
Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations into the Group presentational currency, are recognised as a separate The Groups employees participate in various share option schemes element of other comprehensive income.
Cumulative exchange as disclosed in note 24.
Equity settled share based payments differences are presented in a separate component of equity entitled are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on Translation reserve.
a straight line basis over the vesting period of the award.
At the end of each reporting period the Group revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The financial consequences of revisions to the original estimates, if any, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The fair value of share options is measured using either the Black Scholes option pricing model or the Monte Carlo Simulation.
This is dependent on the conditions attached to each of the issued options.
Where conditions are non-market based the Black Scholes option pricing model is used.
Where market based conditions are attached to options, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 95 Notes to the financial statements continued Taxation including deferred tax Financial risk factors The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year, adjusted The Groups simple structure and the lack of external debt financing for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using reduces the range of financial risks to which it is exposed.
Monitoring tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of of financial risk is part of the Boards ongoing risk management, the each reporting period.
effectiveness of which is reviewed annually.
The Groups agreed policies are implemented by the Chief Executive Officer, who submits The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for periodic reports to the Board.
certain research and development expenditure.
The amount included in the financial statements at the year end represents the credit receivable Foreign exchange risk by the Group for the year and adjustments to prior years.
The majority of operating costs are denominated in Sterling, United States dollars, Canadian dollars, Euro, Swiss francs or Swedish krona.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and temporary differences arising from differences between the carrying recognised assets and liabilities.
amount of assets and liabilities in the financial information and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
In relation to foreign currency risk, the Groups policy is to hold In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable the majority of its funds in Sterling, and to use short-medium term temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the currency purchase options including spot purchases and forward extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against contracts and interest-bearing foreign currency deposits to manage which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
short-medium term fluctuations in exchange rates.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences The Group sometimes uses short-term currency purchase options arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where and interest-bearing deposits of Swiss francs and Euros to manage the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference short-term fluctuations in exchange rates.
The Group uses foreign and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the currency forward contracts to manage medium term fluctuations in foreseeable future.
Swedish krona, Canadian and United States dollars exchange rates.
Deferred tax is calculated at the average tax rates that are expected to At 31 December 2015, if the Euro had weakened strengthened by apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
5% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, the post tax Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive loss for the year would have been 0.5 million 2014: nil lower higher, income, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to as a result of net foreign exchange gains losses on translation of equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Euro-denominated payables, receivables and foreign exchange losses gains on translation of Euro-denominated bank balances.
Financial and capital risk management The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening Capital risk management strengthening of the US dollar against Sterling with all other variables The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the held constant would have been a decrease increase of 1.3 million ability to continue as a going concern and ensure that sufficient capital 2014: nil.
is in place to fund the Groups research activities.
The Groups principal method of adjusting the capital available is through issuing new shares.
The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening During the year, the Company issued 95,469,537 Ordinary shares strengthening of the Canadian dollar against Sterling with all other which funded the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix.
The shares variables held constant would have been a decrease increase of were offered at 288.05p each, raising gross proceeds of 275.0 million.
The Groups capital is comprised of share capital and share premium, The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening which are disclosed in notes 23 and 25 respectively.
The Group strengthening of the Swiss franc against Sterling with all other variables monitors the availability of capital with regard to its forecast future held constant would have been a decrease increase of 0.4 million expenditure on an ongoing basis.
Transaction and translation risk The impact on post tax loss at 31 December 2015 of a 5% weakening Foreign exchange fluctuations may adversely affect the Groups results strengthening of the Swedish krona against Sterling with all other and financial condition.
The Group prepares its financial statements variables held constant would have been a decrease increase of in pound sterling, but a significant proportion of its expenditure and 1.1 million 2014: nil.
subsidiary results are in various currencies including US dollars, Swedish krona, Canadian dollars, Swiss francs and Euros.
The Group The change in foreign exchange rates that is assessed to be does not currently hedge against translation risk.
reasonably likely for each currency in 2015 is 5%.
The Group is also exposed to currency translation risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries.
At present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since the Group does not intend to move assets between Group companies.
Interest rate risk The Groups policy in relation to interest rate risk is to monitor short and medium term interest rates and to place cash on deposit for periods that optimise the amount of interest earned while maintaining access to sufficient funds to meet day to day cash requirements.
The Group does not have any committed external borrowing facilities, as its cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposit balances are sufficient to finance its current operations.
Consequently, there is no material exposure to interest rate risk in respect of interest payable.
If interest rates had been 10 basis points higher lower the impact on net loss in 2015 would have been an increase decrease of 0.2 million 2014: 0.2 million due to changes in the amount of interest receivable.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 96 Credit risks No credit limits were exceeded during any of the periods reported, The Groups policy following Admission to the London Stock Exchange and management does not expect any material losses from nonis to place funds with financial institutions which have a minimum credit performance by these counterparties.
rating with Fitch IBCA of Along term F1 short-term.
During 2015 the Cash flow and liquidity risk Group placed funds on deposit with 10 banks 2014: 12 banks.
The Funds are generally placed on deposit with the maturity profile of Group does not allocate a quota to individual institutions but seeks investments being structured to ensure that sufficient liquid funds to diversify its investments, where this is consistent with achieving are available to meet operating requirements.
The Directors do not competitive rates of return.
It is the Groups policy to place not more consider that there is presently a material cash flow or liquidity risk.
than 35 million or the equivalent in other currencies with any one counterparty.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet The value of financial instruments held represents the maximum date to the contractual maturity date.
There were no financial liabilities exposure that the Group has to them.
There is no collateral held for this outstanding for periods greater than one year.
The amounts disclosed type of credit risk.
in the table are the contracted undiscounted cash flows: Less than Less than 1 year 1 year 2015 2014 At 31 December m m Trade and other payables 48.3 9.7 Total 48.3 9.7 Derivative financial instruments and hedging There were no derivatives at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 3.
Operating segments The chief operating decision-maker the Executive Directors are responsible for making key operating decisions in the Group.
Assessment of performance and decisions regarding the allocation of resources are made by operating segment.
The table below presents information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The group had one single operating segment in the year ended 31 December 2014.
Allergy relates to a range of immunotherapy development products for the treatment of allergy.
NIOX relates to the portfolio of products used to improve asthma diagnosis and management by measuring fractional exhaled nitric oxide FeNO and Respiratory relates to the portfolio of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease product candidates.
Allergy NIOX Respiratory Total Segment operating loss m m m m Revenue from external customers by country, based on the destination of the customer US 3.6 0.3 3.9 EU 3.9 0.2 4.1 Other countries 2.8 2.8 Total segment revenue 10.3 0.5 10.8 Research and development 37.3 2.0 5.5 44.8 Sales and marketing 5.2 7.5 12.7 Administrative expenses 10.6 2.2 0.9 13.7 1 Depreciation and amortisation 0.1 2.2 0.6 2.9 Other 1.1 4.1 0.1 3.1 Operating loss 52.1 7.7 6.6 66.4 1 Depreciation and amortisation is included on the face of the statement of comprehensive income within Research and development costs and Sales and marketing Allergy NIOX Respiratory Unallocated Total Assets by segment m m m m m Cash, cash equivalents and short term deposits 200.4 0.4 3.0 203.8 Property, plant and equipment 1.3 1.3 Goodwill 72.1 4.7 4.4 81.2 Intangible assets 0.4 57.7 107.5 165.6 Deferred tax assets 17.2 17.2 Investment in joint venture 0.2 0.2 Inventories 3.0 3.0 Trade and other receivables 5.1 5.1 Current tax assets 11.8 11.8 Total assets 272.9 62.8 114.9 38.6 489.2 4.
Revenue The Group derives the following types of revenue: 2015 2014 m m Sale of goods 10.3 Licence and milestone revenue 0.5 Total revenue 10.8 5.
Employees and directors The average monthly number of persons including Executive Directors employed by the Group during the year was: 2015 2014 By activity Number Number Office and management 49 15 Sales and marketing 72 Research and development 83 34 Total average headcount 204 49 The average number of administration staff employed by the Company during the year, including Executive Directors was 2 2014: 2.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 98 Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 Employee benefit costs m m m m Wages and salaries 13.2 6.1 1.5 1.8 Social security costs 2.2 0.8 0.1 0.2 Other pension costs 0.5 0.4 0.1 0.1 Share options expense 2.7 1.2 Total employee benefit costs 18.6 8.5 1.7 2.1 The Group contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for its Executive Directors and employees.
Contributions of 52,979 included in other payables were payable to the funds at the year end 2014: 29,876.
The details of Directors of the Group who received emoluments from the Group during the year are shown in the Annual report on remuneration in the Remuneration Committee report.
Key management personnel Key management includes Directors Executive and Non-executive, the VP of Commercial Operations leave date 8 April 2015, the Chief Commercial Officer, the General Counsel, VP of Human Resources and the Chief Business Officer start date 16 June 2015.
The compensation paid or payable to key management is set out below.
2015 2014 m m Short term employee benefits including bonus 3.4 3.3 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Share based payment 1.1 0.8 Total 4.7 4.3 6.
Finance income 2015 2014 m m Finance income: Bank interest receivable 1.7 1.7 Net gain on foreign exchange 1.8 0.2 Total finance income 3.5 1.9 7.
Operating expenses Operating loss is stated after charging the following: 2015 2014 m m Employee benefit costs note 5 18.6 8.5 Externally contracted research & development 36.4 33.4 Legal and professional fees including patent costs 6.8 1.8 1 Depreciation 0.5 1 Amortisation 2.4 Operating lease 0.8 0.3 1 Depreciation and amortisation is included on the face of the statement of comprehensive income within Research and development costs and Sales and marketing Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Auditors remuneration Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates During the year the Group obtained services from the auditor as detailed below: 2015 2014 m m Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.1 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.1 1 Other assurance services 0.2 0.2 Total 0.5 0.3 1 Other assurance services in 2015 relate to services performed in respect of the acquisition of Aerocrine and Prosonix.
These costs were offset against the share premium reserve.
Other gains 2015 2014 m m Forward contract foreign exchange gain 1.1 10.
Taxation The Group is entitled to claim tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and development expenditure.
The amount included in the financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 represents the credit receivable by the Group for the year and adjustments to prior years.
The 2015 amounts have not yet been agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
2015 2014 m m United Kingdom corporation tax research and development credit 10.3 8.8 Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.3 0.1 Movement in deferred tax 2.2 Total tax 12.8 8.9 The tax credit for the year is higher 2014: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014: 21.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2015 2014 m m Loss on ordinary activities before tax 62.8 44.0 Loss on ordinary activities before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014: 21.5% 12.7 9.5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes permanent differences 0.8 1.0 Research & development relief uplift 4.0 2.4 Utilisation of losses not previously recognised 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.3 0.1 Tax losses for which no deferred income tax asset was recognised 3.6 4.1 Current tax credit for the year 12.8 8.9 At 31 December 2015, the Group had tax losses to be carried forward of approximately 223.3 million 2014: 76.4 million.
At 31 December 2015, the Group has current tax assets arising from tax credits in the United Kingdom for certain research and development expenditure of 11.8 million 2014: 8.8 million.
A reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020 has been substantively enacted.
UK deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised at a rate of 18% 2014: 20%.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 100 11.
Loss per share Basic loss per share is calculated by dividing the loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2015 2014 Loss from continuing operations attributable to ordinary equity owners of the parent company m 49.9 35.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue Number 249,578,520 169,118,824 Loss per share 0.20 0.21 As net losses from continuing operations were recorded in 2015 and 2014, the dilutive potential shares are anti-dilutive for the earnings per share calculation.
Property, plant and equipment Total property, Leasehold Fixtures and Plant and Assets under plant and improvements fittings machinery construction equipment Group m m m m m At 1 January 2014 Cost Accumulated depreciation Net book amount Year ended 31 December 2014 Opening net book amount Additions 0.3 0.3 Depreciation Closing net book amount 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2014 Cost 0.3 0.3 Accumulated depreciation Net book amount 0.3 0.3 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 0.3 0.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 33 0.2 0.1 0.5 0.5 1.3 Additions 0.1 0.1 0.2 Depreciation 0.2 0.3 0.5 Transfers 0.6 0.6 Closing net book amount 0.3 0.1 0.9 1.3 At 31 December 2015 Cost 0.5 0.1 1.2 1.8 Accumulated depreciation 0.2 0.3 0.5 Net book amount 0.3 0.1 0.9 1.3 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 13.
Goodwill m At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 Cost 1.8 Accumulated impairment Net book amount 1.8 Year ended 31 December 2015 Opening net book amount 1.8 Acquisition of businesses note 33 77.2 Exchange differences 2.2 Closing net book amount 81.2 At 31 December 2015 Cost 81.2 Accumulated impairment Net book amount 81.2 During 2015, Circassia completed the acquisition of two businesses, resulting in the recognition of 77.2 million of goodwill.
The majority of this goodwill related to the acquisition of Aerocrine AB.
This goodwill was allocated to the Aerocrine and Circassia cash generating units CGUs for impairment testing purposes as the benefits of the Aerocrine acquisition are split between these CGUs.
The goodwill recognised on the acquisition of Prosonix Limited has been allocated to Prosonix Limited, being the CGU for impairment testing purposes.
The goodwill in 2014 arose on the purchase of 100% of the share capital of Circassia Limited from Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP on 17 July 2006.
The goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of assets acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year end exchange rates, is allocated to the following CGUs: 2015 2014 Cash generating unit m m Circassia 72.1 1.8 Aerocrine 4.7 Prosonix 4.4 81.2 1.8 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are assessed using a value in use model.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted pre-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the CGU to which the goodwill is allocated.
The goodwill arising on Aerocrine is attributable to the benefit of having an established sales force with future customer relationships.
A large element of the advantages of having an established sales force will accrue to the Circassia business as its products can be cross sold to the same customers by this sales force.
The acquisition of Aerocrine was based on a strategic benefit to Circassia in leveraging the existing sales force within the business to generate future sales within Circassia.
Goodwill has been allocated based on the proportion of discounted cash flows attributable to each CGU.
For this reason, 94% of the goodwill acquired on acquisition of Aerocrine has been allocated to the Circassia CGU.
The value in use for Aerocrine and Circassia was calculated over a nine year period using a discount factor of 10% being a weighted average cost of capital rate for the Group used by some analysts covering the Group.
The calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections.
In light of the stage of development of the product candidates these cover a nine year period.
Cash flows beyond the nine year period were extrapolated using the estimated terminal growth rates stated below.
The growth rates do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the business.
The discount rate used is pre-tax and reflects specific risks relating to the Group and uncertainties surrounding the cash flow projections, particularly in relation to the assumed successful launch of the Groups products in the expected timeframe and the resulting sales.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 102 The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations for Circassia, Aerocrine and Prosonix are as follows: Anticipated launch dates Group product candidate portfolio 2016 - 2025.
Research and development costs Based on management forecasts of clinical study costs for its product candidates, as well as related expenses associated with the regulatory approval process and commercialisation.
Sales value, volume and growth rates Estimates of sales value, volume and growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information and market research commissioned by the Company.
Advertising and promotion investment Based on management forecasts of advertising and promotion required in the key territories.
Profit margins Margins reflect managements forecasts of sales values and costs of manufacture adjusted for its expectations of market developments.
Period of specified projected cash flows 9 years.
Terminal growth rate Terminal growth rates based on managements estimate of future long-term average growth rate: 2015 1% 2014 0% Discount rate Discount rates based on Group weighted average cost of capital, adjusted where appropriate.
The discount factor in 2015 has been adjusted to reflect the change in the risk profile of the business following the acquisitions made during the year: 2015 10% 2014 20% In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a change to key assumptions that are reasonably possible is unlikely to result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Impact of possible changes in key assumptions Delayed launch of key product candidate in Prosonix Management have in their sensitivity analysis assessed the impact of the possibility that the launch of one of the key product candidates in the Prosonix CGU is delayed by a year.
Reduced annual growth rates in Aerocrine Management have in their sensitivity analysis assessed the impact of a reduced Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR in Aerocrine.
Product failure in late stage clinical trials Management have in their sensitivity analysis assessed the impact of a lead product failure in late stage clinical trials including failure of cat immunotherapy.
The Directors and management have considered and assessed reasonably possible changes for other key assumptions and have not identified any instances that could cause the carrying amount of the above CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount, with the exception of lead product failure in late stage clinical trials, which would be likely to result in lower than forecast sales and costs in the Circassia and or Prosonix CGUs such that goodwill would be impaired.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets Customer Total intangible IPR&D relationships Technology Other assets Group m m m m m At 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014 Cost 0.5 0.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 0.3 0.3 Net book amount 0.2 0.2 Year ended 31 December 2014: Opening and closing net book amount 0.2 0.2 Year ended 31 December 2015: Opening net book amount 0.2 0.2 Acquisition of businesses note 33 88.9 29.9 46.0 1.2 166.0 Additions 0.1 0.1 Amortisation charge 0.9 0.9 0.6 2.4 Exchange differences 0.9 0.8 1.7 Closing net book amount 88.9 29.9 45.9 0.9 165.6 At 31 December 2015 Cost 88.9 30.8 46.8 1.8 168.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 0.9 0.9 0.9 2.7 Net book amount 88.9 29.9 45.9 0.9 165.6 An impairment test is performed annually based on the value in use of the intangible assets.
The Group tests annually whether goodwill and intangible assets have suffered any impairment and tests more frequently when events or circumstances indicate that the current carrying value may not be recoverable.
No such adverse events or circumstances have arisen in the year.
Key assumptions and sensitivities used in the impairment review are disclosed in note 13.
In-Process Research & Development IPR&D IPR&D comprise a portfolio of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease product candidates still in development.
Note 33 Business combinations gives details of additions through business combinations in the year.
The IPR&D has been initially valued using the Excess Earnings Method.
This valuation method is based on discounting the cash flows that are attributable to the intangible asset, after taking into account the contribution of other assets.
IPR&D assets are tested for impairment on the same basis.
Customer relationships Customer relationships represent the existing customers, as at the date of acquisition that are expected to continue to support the business.
A remaining useful life of 18 years was determined at acquisition.
Amortisation has been calculated on a straight line basis over this period from the date of acquisition.
Technology Prosonix achieves a sophisticated level of control over the physicochemical properties of drug particles via an integrated platform of unique and proprietary particle engineering technologies and formulation processes.
The Relief from Royalty Method was used to determine the fair value of the acquired Technology.
In the Relief from Royalty Method, estimates of the value of these types of intangible assets are made by capitalising the royalties saved because the company owns the intangible asset.
A remaining useful life of 20 years was determined at acquisition and amortisation will commence when the products underpinned by this technology become available for commercial use.
A value in use model is used in testing for impairment.
Aerocrine has been developing its technology to measure fractional exhaled nitric oxide FeNO since the mid-1990s.
The Company was the first to develop an instrument for the measurement of FeNO and is continuously developing the measurement of FeNO as a valuable tool in the management of airway inflammation.
The valuation of the Technology was based on pre-determined hypothetical royalty rate attributable to the use of the Technology.
The estimated remaining useful life of the Technology is 15 years.
Other Other intangible assets relate to licences and software in development.
The software in development relates to the development of a new financial reporting software platform that was not complete at the year end.
Once this is complete and the system fully operational, it will be amortised over the determined useful economic life.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 104 15.
Investments in subsidiaries 2015 2014 m m Investments in subsidiaries at 1 January 3.0 1.8 Investment in Prosonix Limited 100.3 Investment in Aerocrine AB 136.9 Equity settled instruments granted to employees of subsidiaries 2.4 1.2 Investments in subsidiaries at 31 December 242.6 3.0 The capital contribution relating to share based payment is for 5,532,518 2014: 3,165,857 0.08p share options granted by the Company to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group.
Further details on the Groups share option schemes can be found in note 24.
Details of the Companys related entities are provided below.
All subsidiaries are included in the consolidation and the Directors believe that the fair value of the investment in all subsidiaries exceeds their carrying values.
Proportion of Ordinary Name Country of Incorporation Nature of business shares held Adiga Life Sciences Canada Pharmaceutical research 50% Circassia Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100% Circassia Pharma Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100% Circassia Pharmaceuticals Inc USA Pharmaceutical research 100% Prosonix Limited UK Pharmaceutical research 100% Development and sale of devices for Aerocrine AB Sweden management of asthma 97.9% Development and sale of devices for Aerocrine Inc USA management of asthma 97.9% Aerocrine GmbH Switzerland Sale of devices for management of asthma 97.9% Aerocrine AG Germany Sale of devices for management of asthma 97.9% Aerocrine Limited UK Sale of devices for management of asthma 97.9% 16.
Investment in joint venture 2015 2014 m m At 1 January 0.1 0.2 Share of profit loss 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 0.2 0.1 Nature of investment in joint venture 2015 and 2014 Place of business Name of entity country of Incorporation % of ownership interest Nature of the relationship Measurement method Adiga Life Sciences Canada 50 Note 1 Equity Note 1 Adiga Life Sciences Adiga is a joint venture with McMaster University in Canada for early epitope and mechanistic clinical studies.
Adiga is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
There are no contingent liabilities or commitments relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 105 Notes to the financial statements continued Summarised financial information for joint venture Set out below is the summarised financial information for Adiga which is accounted for using the equity method.
2015 2014 Summarised statement of financial position at 31 December m m Current assets Trade and other receivables 1.2 0.1 Cash 0.2 0.7 1.4 0.8 Current liabilities Trade payables 0.9 0.5 Other payables 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.6 Net assets 0.4 0.2 2015 2014 Summarised statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December m m Revenue 2.3 4.9 Research & development costs 2.6 5.9 Administration expense 0.2 - Loss from continuing operations 0.5 1.0 Income tax income 0.7 0.8 Post tax profit loss from continuing operations 0.2 0.2 Total comprehensive income expense 0.2 0.2 The information above reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint venture adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint venture and not Circassia Pharmaceuticals plcs share of those amounts.
Reconciliation of summarised financial information Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Companys interest in the joint venture.
2015 2014 Summarised financial information m m Opening net assets 1 January 0.2 0.4 Profit loss for the year 0.2 0.2 Other comprehensive income expense Closing net assets 0.4 0.2 Interest in joint venture @ 50% 0.2 0.1 Carrying value 0.2 0.1 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 106 17.
Inventories 2015 2014 m m Finished goods 3.0 Inventories recognised as an expense during the year ended 31 December 2015 amounted to 3.6 million 2014: nil.
These were included in Cost of sales.
Write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 0.5 million 2014: nil.
These were recognised as an expense during the year ended 31 December 2015 and included in Cost of sales.
Trade and other receivables Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Trade receivables 3.0 Other receivables 1.4 0.7 0.3 Prepayments and accrued interest 0.7 2.0 0.2 1.5 Receivables from subsidiary undertakings 184.5 121.0 Total trade and other receivables 5.1 2.7 185.0 122.5 The fair value of other receivables are their current book values.
Included within receivables is 0.3 million 2014: nil of trade receivables that were past due at the end of the reporting period but have not been impaired.
Receivables from subsidiary undertakings are amounts provided by the Company to its subsidiaries in order to undertake studies.
The receivable is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed date of repayment.
Recoverability of the amount is dependent on the success of those studies.
The carrying amounts of the Group and Company receivables, excluding prepayments and recoverable taxes, are denominated in the following currencies: Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m UK pound 0.4 1.5 176.2 122.5 United States dollar 1.4 4.8 Swedish krona 0.9 2.0 Euro 1.1 2.0 3.8 1.5 185.0 122.5 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Short-term bank deposit, with original maturity: More than 3 months 37.8 156.9 37.8 156.9 Total short-term bank deposits 37.8 156.9 37.8 156.9 Cash and cash equivalents: Cash at bank and in hand 166.0 29.7 130.7 18.8 Total cash and cash equivalents 166.0 29.7 130.7 18.8 The Group and Company cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held with institutions with the following Fitch IBCA long term rating: Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m AA- 33.1 51.5 0.5 40.6 A 72.7 35.0 70.0 35.0 A 90.7 92.1 90.7 92.0 A- 7.3 8.0 7.3 8.1 203.8 186.6 168.5 175.7 The Group and Company cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits are held in the following currencies at 31 December: Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m UK pound 138.3 157.9 135.5 154.5 United States dollar 22.2 11.7 20.5 11.3 Canadian dollar 8.5 9.5 7.3 8.0 Euro 7.5 2.0 5.2 1.9 Swiss franc 7.1 5.5 Swedish krona 20.2 203.8 186.6 168.5 175.7 20.
Trade and other payables Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Trade payables 5.1 2.7 0.1 0.3 Social security and other taxes 0.3 0.2 Accruals 12.0 6.8 0.1 0.3 Other payables 0.9 1 Contingent consideration 30.0 30.0 Total trade and other payables 48.3 9.7 30.2 0.6 1 Details regarding the contingent consideration are disclosed in note 33.
The contingent consideration arrangement requires the Group to pay the former owners of Prosonix Limited 30.0 million upon the Company receiving a product marketing authorisation in respect of Prosonix Limiteds lead product in the United Kingdom on or before 31 December 2016 or 15.0 million on or before 31 December 2017.
UK marketing approval was received during the year and the contingent consideration of 30.0 million was paid on 6 January 2016.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is therefore considered to be equal to its book value and is no longer contingent.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 108 21.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and contingent consideration.
Additional disclosures are set out in the accounting policies relating to financial and capital risk management note 2.
The Group had the following financial instruments at 31 December each year: 2015 2014 Assets m m Cash and cash equivalents 166.0 29.7 Short-term bank deposits 37.8 156.9 Trade and other receivables 3.8 1.5 Loans and receivables 207.6 188.1 2015 2014 Liabilities m m Trade and other payables current 47.5 9.7 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 47.5 9.7 The Company had the following financial instruments at 31 December each year 2015 2014 Assets m m Cash and cash equivalents 130.7 18.8 Short-term bank deposits 37.8 156.9 Other receivables 0.5 1.5 Receivable from subsidiary undertaking 184.5 121.0 Loans and receivables 353.5 298.2 2015 2014 Liabilities m m Trade and other payables current 30.2 0.6 Financial liabilities at amortised cost 30.2 0.6 Cash balances comprise floating rate instant access deposits earning interest at prevailing bank rates.
Short-term deposits earn interest at fixed rates.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement the Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard.
There were no such derivatives identified at 31 December 2015 or 31 December 2014.
Fair value The Directors consider that the fair values of the Groups financial instruments do not differ significantly from their book values.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Deferred taxation Intangibles Tax losses Net deferred tax liability m m m As at 1 January Acquisitions 34.0 17.8 16.2 Change in rate 2.2 0.5 1.7 Credit charge to the income statement 0.6 0.1 0.5 As at 31 December 2015 31.2 17.2 14.0 On acquisition of Aerocrine AB and Prosonix Limited, the Group recognised a net deferred tax liability of 16.2 million, comprising a deferred tax liability of 34.0 million, offset by a deferred tax asset arising in the same jurisdictions of 17.8 million.
2015 2014 m m Deferred tax liabilities 31.2 Deferred tax assets 17.2 Total deferred tax position 14.0 The Group has the following unrecognised potential deferred tax assets as at 31 December: 2015 2014 m m Losses 40.2 15.4 Accelerated capital allowances 0.5 Share based payments and provisions 1.7 1.3 Total unrecognised deferred tax asset 42.4 16.7 23.
Share capital 2015 2014 Authorised, called up and fully paid m m 284,889,171 2014: 189,419,634 Ordinary shares of 0.08p each 0.2 0.2 On 11 June 2015, the Company issued 95,469,537 Ordinary shares which funded the acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix.
The shares were offered at 288.05p each, raising gross proceeds of 275.0 million.
Deal costs relating to the acquisitions and the share issue were 12.8 million, of which 8.8 million was offset against the Share Premium Account and 4.0 million of indirect Admission costs were included in the income statement.
Share based payments Share options Options have been awarded under the Circassia PSP Share Option Scheme the PSP Scheme, the Circassia EMI Share Option Scheme the EMI Scheme and the Circassia Unapproved Share Option Scheme the Unapproved Scheme.
The share options outstanding can be summarised as follows: 2015 2014 Number of Number of Ordinary shares Ordinary shares 000 000 i PSP Scheme 4,336 1,969 ii EMI Scheme 535 535 iii Unapproved Scheme 661 661 5,532 3,165 The contractual life of all options is 10 years and the options cannot normally be exercised before the third anniversary of the date of grant.
i O ptions granted under the PSP Scheme do not have a fixed exercise price and are subject to additional vesting performance conditions.
The performance conditions state that a proportion of an award shall vest subject to the Company Total Shareholder Return TSR ranking against the Comparator Index TSR and the remaining shall vest subject to the meeting of certain strategic Company objectives.
ii Options granted under the EMI Scheme have a fixed exercise price based on the market price at the date of grant.
iii Options granted under the Unapproved Scheme also have a fixed exercise price based on the market price at the date of grant.
The movement in share options outstanding is summarised in the following table: Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 110 2015 2014 Weighted Weighted average average Number exercise price Number exercise price 000 000 Outstanding at 1 January 3,165 0.25 3,010 0.23 Granted 2,853 0.0008 2,439 0.23 Expired n a n a Forfeited 486 0.0003 420 1.05 Exercised n a 1,864 0.0008 Outstanding at 31 December 5,532 0.15 3,165 0.25 Exercisable at 31 December 708 0.0008 631 0.0008 The exercise prices of the share options outstanding at the end of the period were nil, 0.0008 and 2.42 2014: nil, 0.0008 and 2.42.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the end of the period was 8.2 years 2014: 8.7 years.
There were no options exercised during the year.
In the prior year 1.9m shares were exercised.
These were issued at a weighted average price of 0.0008 each and the related weighted average share price at the time of exercise was 2.23 per share.
Valuation models The fair value of PSP share options granted during the period was determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model and Black Scholes model dependent on the performance vesting conditions.
Black Scholes There were no options granted during the year that were valued solely using the Black Scholes model.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in the Black Scholes model in calculating the fair values of the options granted during the prior year: 2014 Share price 3.19 Exercise price 0.23 Expected volatility 50% Expected life 10 years Expected dividends 0% Risk free interest rate 3% Monte Carlo Simulation The following weighted average assumptions were used in the Monte Carlo Simulation model in calculating the fair values of the options granted during the year: 2015 2014 Exercise price 0.0008 nil Expected volatility 32% 31% Expected life 3 years 3 years Expected dividends 0% 0% Risk free interest rate 1% 1% The Monte Carlo Simulation model has been used to value the portion of the awards which have a market performance vesting condition Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The model incorporates a discount factor reflecting this performance condition into the fair value of this portion of the award.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period determined using the Monte Carlo Simulation model at the grant date was 2.04 per option 2014: 2.19.
For the options valued using the Monte Carlo Simulation, expected volatility is measured by calculating the standard deviation of the natural logarithm of share price movements of comparable companies.
This is a standard approach to calculating volatility.
The risk free rate of return is the rate of interest obtainable from government securities as at the date of grant i. e. Gilts in the UK over the expected term i. e. three years.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 111 Notes to the financial statements continued Restricted shares The Company previously made awards of Ordinary shares to employees and Non-Executive Directors by entering into a form of restricted share agreement with each participant, under which the participant subscribed for or purchased Ordinary shares in the Company at 10p per ordinary share converted into 0.08p shares post capital reorganisation.
These shares are subject to certain restrictions on transfer and forfeiture, as set out in the restricted share agreement.
The restrictions lift on the earlier of a sale of the Company and the expiry of a vesting period of between two and three years depending on the date of award of the restricted shares.
There were 0.6m Ordinary shares of 0.08p 2014: 1.8m Ordinary shares of 0.08p in issue at 31 December 2015.
Deferred shares During the year the Group awarded 110,845 2014: Nil deferred shares to Executive Directors as part of a deferred bonus for 2014.
The shares are held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust until the third anniversary of the grant date when they will transfer to the Executive Directors so long as they are still an officer or employee of the Group.
Income statement See note 5 for the total expense recognised in the income statement in respect of the above equity settled instruments granted to Directors and employees.
Share premium 2015 2014 Group and Company m m At 1 January 297.9 103.4 Conversion of loan notes into Ordinary shares 2.0 Issue of new shares 274.9 201.9 Expenses relating to share issue 8.8 9.4 At 31 December 564.0 297.9 26.
Accumulated losses retained earnings Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m At 1 January 108.6 73.5 1.2 0.7 Loss profit for the year 49.9 35.1 3.2 0.5 At 31 December 158.5 108.6 2.0 1.2 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 112 27.
Other reserves Transactions with nonShare option Translation Treasury controlling Total other a reserve reserve shares reserve interests reserves Group m m m m m At 1 January 2014 0.1 0.1 Employee share option scheme 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2014 1.3 1.3 Employee share option scheme 2.7 2.7 Currency translation differences 3.1 3.1 Purchase of own shares note 32 0.3 0.3 Transactions with non-controlling interests 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2015 4.0 3.1 0.3 4.0 2.8 a On 1 July and 4 July 2015, the group acquired an additional 4.6% and 0.7% respectively of the issued shares of Aerocrine AB for SEK94.3 million 7.2 million.
Immediately prior to the purchase, the carrying amount of the existing 7.4% non-controlling interests in Aerocrine AB was 4.5 million.
The group recognised a decrease in non-controlling interests of 3.2 million and a decrease in equity attributable to owners of the parent of 4.0 million.
The effect on the equity attributable to the owners of Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc during the year is summarised as follows: 2015 m Carrying amount of non-controlling interests acquired 3.2 Consideration paid to non-controlling interests 7.2 Excess of consideration paid recognised in the transactions with non-controlling interests reserve within equity 4.0 There were no non-controlling interests in 2014.
Share option reserve Total other reserves Company m m At 1 January 2014 0.1 0.1 Employee share option scheme 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2014 1.3 1.3 Employee share option scheme 2.4 2.4 At 31 December 2015 3.7 3.7 Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Cash used in operations Reconciliation of loss profit before tax to net cash used in operations Group Company 2015 2014 2015 2014 m m m m Continuing operations Loss profit before tax 62.8 44.0 3.2 0.5 Adjustment for: Interest income 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.7 Depreciation 0.5 Amortisation 2.4 Share of joint venture profit loss 0.1 0.1 Fair value gain on forward contract 1.1 Share based payment charge 2.7 1.2 Foreign exchange on non-operating cash flows 1.1 0.5 0.1 0.7 Changes in working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 1.5 0.1 0.3 26.9 Increase in inventories 0.4 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 4.8 3.8 0.8 0.1 Net cash used in operations 64.9 41.0 5.8 28.7 29.
Contingent liabilities There were no contingent liabilities at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
Operating lease commitments The total of future minimum lease payments payable under the entitys non-cancellable operating lease for each of the following periods is as follows: 2015 2014 m m Due within one year 1.0 0.3 Due between one and five years 0.8 0.3 The Group leases various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating leases expiring within one to five years.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 114 31.
Capital commitments The Group had no capital commitments at 31 December 2015 or at 31 December 2014.
Related party transactions Group There is no ultimate controlling party of the Group as ownership is split between the Companys shareholders.
The most significant shareholders as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Invesco Asset Management 35.13% of total voting rights : Woodford Investment Management 15.98% of total voting rights : Oppenheimer Funds Inc 10.67% of total voting rights : Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP 9.30% of total voting rights : Aviva Investors 6.57% of total voting rights.
Transactions with related parties during the year and balances with related parties at 31 December are as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Purchases Purchases Payables Payables Related party 000 000 000 000 Adiga Life Sciences Joint venture 1,370 4,920 7 1 Imperial Innovations Businesses LLP 42 38 2 Iterum Pharmaceuticals LLC 89 1 Purchases includes compensation paid or payable in respect of services provided by Russ Cummings as Non-Executive Director of the Company.
2 Iterum Pharmaceuticals LLC is considered a related party by virtue of Paul Edick, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, being the Chairman of the Board.
Disclosure of compensation provided to Directors is given in the Annual Report on Remuneration and in note 5 for key management.
Included within key management personnel is Chief Commercial Officer Linda Szyper.
Linda is the spouse of Paul Edick, a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
The compensation paid or payable to Linda is shown below: 2015 2014 m m Linda Szyper: Short-term employee benefits including bonus 0.5 0.1 Share based payment 0.1 Total 0.6 0.1 Company The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the year: 2015 2014 Related party m m 1 Rendering of services to Circassia Limited 1.3 1.6 Settlement of liabilities on behalf of the subsidiaries 139.2 3.0 Net transfer of funds to subsidiaries 201.4 28.7 63.5 27.3 1 Remuneration costs excluding share options charges relating to Steven Harris and Julien Cotta in respect of services rendered to Circassia Limited.
2015 2014 m m Balances due from subsidiary companies 184.5 121.0 The amount due is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed date of repayment.
Employee benefit trust During the prior year the Company set up an Employee benefit trust for the purposes of buying and selling shares on the employees behalf.
A total of 291,081 of funding was paid into the Trust by the Company during the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 5,100.
A total of 110,845 shares 0.08p nominal value each were purchased by the Trust during the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: nil.
As at 31 December 2015 a cash balance of 5,080 2014: 5,100 was held by the Trust.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 33. Business combinations During the year, Prosonix Limited and Aerocrine AB were acquired by the Group.
The acquisitions were made in order to accelerate Circassias strategy to become a self-sustaining specialty biopharmaceutical company and to provide the capability and resources to commercialise an enlarged late-stage pipeline of potential new allergy and asthma products, once approved.
Prosonix Limited On 15 June 2015, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Prosonix Limited, a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the development of a portfolio of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease product candidates.
The total consideration was 100.0 million.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill of 4.4 million is attributable to the existing Prosonix Limited workforce which cannot be separately valued under accounting standards.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Prosonix Limited, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Consideration m Cash 70.0 Contingent consideration 30.0 Total consideration 100.0 Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Cash and cash equivalents 5.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.8 Intangible assets Technology 19.0 Intangible assets IPR&D 88.7 Intangible assets Other 0.2 Trade and other receivables 2.1 Trade and other payables 4.3 Net deferred tax liabilities 16.2 Total identifiable net assets 95.6 Goodwill 4.4 Total consideration 100.0 The contingent consideration arrangement requires the Group to pay the former owners of Prosonix Limited 30.0 million upon the Company receiving a product marketing authorisation in respect of Prosonix Limiteds lead product in the United Kingdom on or before 31 December 2016 or 15.0 million on or before 31 December 2017.
The fair value of trade and other receivables is 2.1 million and includes trade receivables with a fair value of 0.1 million.
The gross contractual amount for trade receivables due is 0.1 million.
The revenue included in the consolidated income statement from 16 June 2015 to 31 December 2015 contributed by Prosonix Limited was 0.5 million.
Prosonix Limited contributed a loss before tax of 6.6 million for the same period.
Had Prosonix Limited been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement for the year would show pro-forma revenue in respect of Prosonix Limited of 1.8 million and pro-forma operating loss of 3.8 million.
Measurement period adjustments The fair value of the trade and other receivables at the acquisition date has been increased by 0.4 million to reflect an increase in the R&D tax credit receivable.
A deferred tax asset of 5.3 million has been recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The above adjustments have resulted in a corresponding decrease in goodwill.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 116 Aerocrine AB On 18 June 2015, the Group acquired 92.6% of the share capital of Aerocrine AB, and by 7 July 2015, the Group acquired a further 5.3% of the share capital, bringing its investment in Aerocrine AB to 97.9%.
The company offers market-leading products, which are sold to the Groups core customers of allergy asthma specialists by an established commercial infrastructure in the US and Germany Europes largest allergy market, and by a network of partners in additional territories.
The products, NIOX MINO and NIOX VERO, are used to improve asthma diagnosis and management by measuring fractional exhaled nitric oxide FeNO, and NIOX is the only device available across major markets.
The products are an ideal strategic fit with the Groups commercialisation approach, with sales forces targeting specialists in key markets, partners undertaking promotion in other countries and the potential for primary care sales through partnering.
With a strong commercial infrastructure already established, with reimbursement, market access, supply chain and marketing expertise in place, there is an opportunity to scale up this presence in the near-term as well as expanding into further EU territories.
The Group plans to increase the existing field forces, complete training on the Groups allergy products, map out key accounts and build customer relationships well in advance of the launch of the Groups cat allergy product.
As a result, the Group aims to accelerate uptake of its cat allergy product and achieve higher peak sales, which research suggests have the potential to reach over $500 million per annum.
In addition, this commercial investment is expected to drive greater NIOX sales, which are targeting a market opportunity of approximately $190 million in the US allergy asthma specialist segment alone.
The consideration paid was 1.7 billion SEK, equivalent to 129.6 million.
The goodwill at acquisition of 72.8 million arises from future customer relationships and sales force synergies.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for Aerocrine AB, and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Consideration m Cash 129.6 Total consideration 129.6 Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed m Cash and cash equivalents 32.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.5 Intangible assets Customer relationships 29.9 Intangible assets Technology 27.0 Intangible assets IPR&D 0.2 Intangible assets Other 1.0 Inventories 2.3 Trade and other receivables 4.2 Trade and other payables 8.0 Other financial investments 0.2 Borrowings 28.4 Total identifiable net assets 61.3 Non-controlling interests 4.5 Goodwill 72.8 Total consideration 129.6 The non-controlling interests have been recognised as a proportion of net assets acquired.
The revenue included in the consolidated income statement from 19 June 2015 to 31 December 2015 contributed by Aerocrine AB was 10.3 million.
Aerocrine AB also contributed an operating loss of 7.7 million over the same period.
Had Aerocrine AB been consolidated from 1 January 2015, the consolidated income statement for the year would show pro-forma revenue in respect of Aerocrine AB of 18.8 million and pro-forma operating loss of 26.6 million.
Measurement period adjustments The fair value of the consideration at the acquisition date has increased by 0.9 million in respect of vested share options with a change of control clause.
The deferred tax rate has decreased from 35% US tax rate to 22% Swedish tax rate resulting in a deferred tax liability of 12.5 million compared to 19.9 million at acquisition.
A deferred tax asset of 12.5 million has been recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The above adjustments have resulted in a decrease of 17.5 million in goodwill and an increase of 1.4 million in non-controlling interests.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 117
