Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information D Directors responsibilities statement irectors responsibilities statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its the auditors statement of their responsibilities set out in their reports on future development, performance and position, are set out in the strategic pages 62 to 67 and 105 to 106, is made to distinguish the respective report on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the group, its cash responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the flows and liquidity position are described in the financial review.
management section of the strategic report and note 26 to the financial statements include a description of the groups objectives, policies and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and with applicable law and regulations.
its exposures to credit and liquidity risks.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements The group has considerable financial resources available and a strong for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the balance sheet, as explained in the financial review on pages 30 to 31. group and parent company financial statements in accordance with As a result of this, the directors believe that the group is well placed to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the manage its business risks successfully despite the challenging market European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the backdrop.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, preparing the financial statements.
the directors are required to: Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: 38 to 39 of this annual report, confirm that: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable to the best of their knowledge, the consolidated financial statements, and prudent: which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and financial position and profit of the group: explained in the financial statements: and to the best of their knowledge, the strategic report includes a fair prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is review of the development and performance of the business and the inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
position of the group, together with a description of principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: and The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and they consider the annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of and understandable and provides the information necessary for the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the business model and strategy.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
On behalf of the board The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the James Hughes-Hallett Chairman companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from 4 March 2016 legislation in other jurisdictions.
In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each director at the time of approval of this report confirms that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware, and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
