Definitions KPI definitions Further financial definitions Group organic revenue growth The following notes apply throughout the Annual Report and Accounts: Revenue growth stated at constant translation exchange rates, excluding theincremental effect of acquisitions and divestments.
To assist with the understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published statements non-GAAP measures including trading profit Underlying EPS growth at constant translation exchange rates andunderlying earnings results.
Trading profit has been defined as operating The year-on-year increase in underlying profit after taxation, stated at profit from continuing operations excluding the impacts of business acquisition constant translation exchange rates, divided by the weighted average and divestment related activity and business restructuring costs as detailed .
Also excluded are changes in the marking to market of non-hedge accounted derivative financial instruments, gains and losses arising on dividend Operating cash conversion related foreign exchange contracts, impairments of intangible assets and items Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage deemed by the Directors to be of an exceptional nature.
All underlying measures include the operational results of all businesses including Return on invested capital those held for sale until the point of sale.
Trading profit as a percentage of the average invested capital during the year.
Invested capital comprises net assets adjusted to exclude net debt, retirement Business acquisition and divestment related items excluded from trading profit benefit obligations, derivative financial instruments, current and deferred tax, and underlying earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised provisions and other financial assets.
Intangible assets recognised on business on acquisition, gains or losses arising on business divestments, adjustments to combinations are grossed up to their original cost before amortisation and an businesses held for sale, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element adjustment is also made to reinstate the historic goodwill previously written of inventory written up on acquisition and other direct costs associated with offdirectly to reserves.
business combinations and terminated divestments.
PV investment Business restructuring costs relate to the restructuring of the Groups portfolio Private Venture PV or company funded Research and Development R&D which are incremental to normal operations.
In 2015, these relate primarily to measures exclude Aviation Services, where there is no R&D activity.
theintegration of the Aeroflex businesses acquired in 2014.
Staff safety major accident incident rate Underlying earnings are defined as trading profit less net underlying finance costs, The number of incidents resulting in more than three days absence per which exclude acquisition related items, and after deducting associated taxation 100,000employees.
Voluntary staff turnover Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less cash flows The number of voluntary leavers divided by the average number of employees in related to the purchase or disposal of property, plant, equipment and intangible the year, excluding employees who became redundant, were dismissed or retired.
assets but excluding payments relating to M&A activities.
Operating cash flow isfree cash flow before payment of tax, interest and restructuring costs.
Operating cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow as a percentage oftrading profit.
Net debt is defined as the net of borrowings less cash and cash equivalents at the balance sheet date.
When providing sectoral analysis by geography, US revenue includes revenue to US based customers on programmes which could be designated as export and is therefore non-US defence security from a market analysis perspective.
com Cobham plc 132 PB Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Find more online Our website provides further information including shareholder services and governance, details of our products and services, corporate responsibility and sustainability, and more at: www.
com Investor information and share price performance Corporate responsibility and sustainability Products and service offerings www.
com Designed and produced by: This document is printed on Amadeus coated Addison Group 50 silk, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre 25% www.
net post consumer and 25% pre consumer and 50% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, Printed by: FSC certified forests.
The pulp used in this product Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
is bleached using an elemental chlorine free ECF process.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified When you have finished with this report, please pass to ISO 14001. it on to other interested parties or remove the cover and dispose of it in your recycled 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% paper waste.
of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The most important thing we build is trust Cobham plc Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK www.
