Glossary Term Full name Description 737NG Boeing 737 Next Generation Part of the Boeing 737 family of twin engine narrow-body commercial airliners.
Boeing 737 Next Generation models include the -600, -700, -800 and -900ER.
A400M Airbus A400M A versatile large military aircraft that performs three differing duties: short-medium range flights: long range flights: and the ability to provide aerial refuelling capabilities.
AMSA Australian Maritime Safety Authority A statutory authority whose principal functions are promoting maritimesafety and protection of the marine environment: preventing and combating ship-sourced pollution in the marine environment: providing infrastructure to support safety of navigation in Australian waters: providing a national search and rescue service to the maritime and aviation sectors.
Aviator 200S Aviator 200S The AVIATOR S series provides SATCOM solutions for airline fleets for the purpose of air traffic control and aircraft operation control.
The AVIATOR S enables secure data communication, Internet Protocol IP connectivity and multiple voice capabilities.
General Atomics B MQ-9 Reaper A medium-to-high altitude, long endurance remotely piloted aircraft B MQ-9 Reaper system.
The primary mission is to act as an intelligence, surveillance andreconnaissance asset.
B717 Boeing 717 A narrow-body passenger aircraft designed for short-haul, high frequency commercial use.
B787 Boeing 787 Dreamliner A family of long-range wide-body twin engine passenger aircraft.
C-130 variants are also used for special operations, aerial refuelling, close air support, search and rescueand personnel recovery.
CI Continuous improvement Continuous improvement is the ongoing improvement of products, services or processes through incremental and breakthrough activities.
CL-604 Bombardier Challenger CL-604 aircraft A business jet being modified by Cobham.
COMAC C919 COMAC C919 A narrow-body passenger aircraft currently being developed by the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China COMAC.
COSO ERM Committee of Sponsoring Organizations An integrated framework which helps businesses assess and enhance of the Treadway Commission, Enterprise their internal control systems.
The framework is used to control activities Risk Management and to better achieve established objectives.
ERP Enterprise Resource Planning An IT system which integrates all business processes, including manufacturing, finance and accounting, human resources, sales and marketing, purchasing, distribution, andinventory into one central cohesive repository.
It allows businesses to run more efficiently, with real time access to dataacross many business functions.
com Cobham plc 130 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 OTHER INFORMATION Term Full name Description F-# US Air Force designated fighter aircraft Designation for aircraft used for air-to-air combat or for multipleroles, including ground support missions.
FSTA Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft A UK Private Finance Initiative funded project which has replaced the UKs air-to-air refuelling fleets, and elements of the air transport work previously undertaken by the RAF VC10 and TriStar fleets.
FYDP Future Years Defense Program A US Department of Defense centralised report providing data on current and planned resource allocations, providing visibility over projected defence spending.
GX Inmarsat Global Xpress A global satellite service which is the worlds first to offer mobile broadband coverage.
Global Xpress provides increased data speeds andbandwidth to customers in the government, maritime and aeronautical sectors.
idDAS Intelligent Digital Distributed An in-building wireless coverage solution allowing mobile operators to Antenna Systems dynamically allocate capacity around a facility to locations only where and when it is needed.
Ka-band Ka-band Used in satellite communications, Ka-band offers higher bandwidth than alternative frequencies allowing greater data transfer rates.
KC-46 Boeing KC-46 An aerial refuelling tanker, currently being developed for the US Air Force to replace its ageing fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers.
Mitsubishi Regional Jet Mitsubishi Regional Jet A next generation regional jet that is currently in development.
NASA The National Aeronautics A US government agency responsible for a civilian space programme and Space Administration aswell as aeronautics and aerospace research.
General Atomics Predator A long-endurance, medium-altitude unmanned aircraft system for Predator surveillance and reconnaissance missions.
SAILOR 100 GX SAILOR 100 Global Xpress An advanced 3-axis stabilized Ka-band antenna system designed for theInmarsat GX satellite network.
SATCOM Satellite Communication Enables fixed and mobile communications such as telephone calls, television or internet connections, using an orbiting satellite to transfer data around the earth.
SEWIP Surface Electronic Warfare An evolutionary series of enhancements to the US Navys AN SLQ-32 Improvement Program electronic warfare system for surface ships.
TeraVM TeraVM A fully virtualised IP test and measurement solution that can emulate and measure millions of unique application flows as a means to test wireless networks.
com Cobham plc 130 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
