WHAT IS THE GROUPS WHAT ARE THE GROUPS MAIN HOW WOULD YOU SUMMARISE Q Q Q GEOGRAPHIC SPREAD?
We have a truly international business, with OUR SECTORISED APPROACH Compass has had another strong year.
North operations in over 50 countries.
Our three We segment the market and create sectors America continues to deliver excellent growth.
geographic regions comprise countries with and sub-sectors to develop customised Our business in Europe & Japan is enjoying similar market characteristics or at similar dining solutions that meet the requirements a strong recovery as we are rewarded for our stages of development.
of a growing range of clients and consumers.
investment to accelerate growth in the region.
Our portfolio of B2B brands enables us to Our Fast Growing & Emerging region continues North America 52% of Group revenue is differentiate these propositions and maximise to perform well despite lower volumes and likely to remain the principal growth engine our market coverage, while benefiting from the pricing pressures in the Offshore & Remote for the Group.
We have a market leading cost advantages of scale in food procurement sector, and in some emerging markets.
business, which delivers high levels of growth and back office costs.
by combining the cost advantage of our We continue to drive operating efficiencies scale with a segmented, client facing sector around the business, which we are partly OUR SCALE approach.
The outsourcing culture is vibrant reinvesting in the growth opportunities we see As we continue to grow, our scale enables us and the addressable market is significant.
Excluding the 26 million to achieve our goal of being the lowest cost, of restructuring costs announced in July, most efficient provider of food and support The fundamentals of our businesses in Europe underlying operating margin for the Group services.
Scale is a benefit in terms of food & Japan 31% of Group revenue are good and improved by 10 basis points.
procurement, labour management and back we see many opportunities to drive growth in office costs.
It underpins our competitiveness revenue and margin.
Our investment in MAP 1 and enables us to deliver sustainable growth WHAT IS YOUR OUTLOOK sales and retention has accelerated our Q over time.
organic revenue growth and we continue to FOR 2016?
see opportunities to drive efficiencies and Our expectations for 2016 are positive and OUR MAP CULTURE make our operations more competitive.
The pipeline of new contracts is We speak one common MAP language.
Fast Growing & Emerging 17% of Group strong, and the savings from the restructuring, All our employees use a simple framework to revenue offers excellent long term growth together with the margin improvement in the drive performance across the business.
Our largest markets are Australia, rest of the Group, are expected to offset the framework helps us focus on a common set Brazil and Turkey, and we are growing rapidly impact of lower volumes and pricing pressures of business drivers, whether it is winning in India and China.
Lower commodity prices in our Fast Growing & Emerging region.
new business in the right sector on the right and a weak macroeconomic backdrop have terms MAP 1, increasing our consumer In the longer term, we remain excited about impacted our Offshore & Remote business participation and spend MAP 2, reducing the significant structural growth opportunities and some of our emerging markets in the year.
our food costs MAP 3, or labour costs globally and the potential for further revenue We are in the process of restructuring our MAP 4 and 5. growth, margin improvement, as well as business where necessary to adapt to the continued returns to shareholders through changing market environment, and remain dividends and ongoing share buybacks.
WHAT ARE THE GROUPS MAIN Q excited about the attractive long term growth USES OF CASH AND BALANCE prospects of the region.
In 2016, we will change the way we run the business and will adjust our regional The Groups cash flow generation remains reporting accordingly.
Going forward, excellent and it will continue to be a key part our three regions will be: North America of the business model.
Our priorities for how RICHARD COUSINS unchanged, Europe including Turkey and we use our cash remain unchanged.
We will Group Chief Executive Russia and Rest of World including Japan.
continue to: i invest in the business to 24 November 2015 We will publish restated historical financials support organic growth where we see on 19 January 2016. opportunities with good returns: ii pursue M&A opportunities, our preference is for small to medium sized infill acquisitions, where we look for returns greater than our cost of capital by the end of year two: iii grow the dividend in line with earnings per share: and iv maintain strong investment grade credit ratings returning any surplus cash to shareholders to target net debt EBITDA of around 1.5x.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 9 ENGAGING WERE INCREASING OUR INVESTMENT IN DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE OUR PERFORMANCE IN MAP 1 AND 2 Were using social media more to engage with consumers: were making it easier for people to buy, increasing our speed of service with kiosks and mobile payments, and using data analytics to gain greater consumer insights.
