Shareholder information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 17.
T o authorise the Company and any company which is, or THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR becomes, a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this Resolution relates to: IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you 17.1 m ake donations to political parties or independent election should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, candidates: solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser 17.2 make donations to political organisations other than authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act political parties: and 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your 17.3 incur political expenditure, shares in Compass Group PLC, please send this Notice and d uring the period commencing on the date of this Resolution the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, and ending on the date of the Companys next Annual General or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the Meeting, provided that any such donations and expenditure sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser made by the Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not or transferee.
exceed 100,000 per company and, together with those made by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate 100,000.
Notice is hereby given that the fifteenth Annual General Meeting A ny terms used in this Resolution which are defined in Part 14 of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held in the of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for the Live Room, Rugby Football Union, Rugby House, Twickenham purposes of this Resolution 17.
Stadium, 200 Whitton Road, Twickenham, Middlesex TW2 7BA on Thursday 4 February 2016 at 12 noon in order to transact 18.
1 8.1 To renew the power conferred on the directors by Article the following business: 12 of the Companys Articles of Association for a period expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is which Resolutions 19 to 21 will be proposed as special resolutions passed or, if earlier, 3 May 2017: and for that period the and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
T o receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts 18.2 I n addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased by and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended 58,244,125, for a period expiring at the end of the next 30September 2015.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed, provided that the directors 2.
T o receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for the power in respect of such latter amount shall only be used financial year ended 30 September 2015. in connection with a rights issue: 3.
T o declare a final dividend of 19.6 pence per ordinary share 18.2.
1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as inrespect of the financial year ended 30 September 2015. nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 4.
To elect Nelson Silva as a director of the Company.
2 to holders of other equity securities as required 5.
To elect Johnny Thomson as a director of the Company.
by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, 6.
To elect Ireena Vittal as a director of the Company.
a nd that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and 7.
To re-elect Dominic Blakemore as a director of the Company.
make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal 8.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as a director of the Company.
with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body or 9.
To re-elect Gary Green as a director of the Company.
stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
To re-elect Carol Arrowsmith as a director of the Company.
To re-elect John Bason as a director of the Company.
T o authorise the directors, subject to the passing of Resolution 12.
To re-elect Susan Murray as a director of the Company.
18 above, and in accordance with the power conferred on the directors by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, 13.
To re-elect Don Robert as a director of the Company.
such authority to apply until the conclusion of the next Annual 14.
To re-elect Paul Walsh as a director of the Company.
General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is passed or, if earlier, 3 May 2017 to disapply 15.
T o reappoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the pre-emption rights up to an aggregate nominal value of conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
17,472,812 which includes the sale on a non pre-emptive basis 16.
T o authorise the Audit Committee to agree the auditors of any shares held in treasury representing approximately 10% remuneration.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 December 2015, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and for that period the section 561 amount is 17,472,812.
See this Report and our full Corporate Responsibility Report online at www.
com ar15 154 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 20.
T o generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, pursuant EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS to and in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act RESOLUTION 1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006, to make market purchases within the meaning of section The directors are required to present to the Annual General Meeting 5 693 4 of that Act of ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each in the AGM the Meeting the audited accounts and the Directors and capital of the Company subject to the following conditions: Auditors Reports for the financial year ended 30 September 2015.
20.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 164,450,00: RESOLUTION 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 20.2 the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006 5 for each ordinary share is 10 8 pence: CA 2006, shareholders are requested to approve the Directors 20.3 t he maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out for each ordinary share in respect of a share contracted to on pages 59 to 77 of the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
The vote be purchased on any day, does not exceed the higher of 1 is advisory.
an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle In accordance with section 439A of the CA 2006, a separate market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the resolution on the Remuneration Policy the Policy part of the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five Directors Remuneration Report must be put to the vote and approved business days immediately preceding the day on which the by shareholders at least every three years, unless during that time it is purchase is made and 2 the higher of the price of the last to be changed.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2015 independent trade and the highest current independent bid AGM.
The directors do not propose any changes to the Policy this year for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock and as such, it is not necessary for the directors to submit a resolution Exchange Trading System: and on the Policy to shareholders for approval at the 2016 AGM.
A copy of 20.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, varied the Remuneration Policy in force is set out on pages 62 to 68 of the or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of the next 2015 Annual Report.
To the extent that changes have been made to Annual General Meeting of the Company or 3 August 2017, the Policy since last year, these are merely to ensure that the content whichever is the earlier except in relation to the purchase of of the Policy remains relevant to the financial year under review, in all ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded prior other respects, the Policy remains unchanged.
to the expiry of this authority and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority.
T o authorise the directors to call a general meeting of the The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2015 will be paid Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than on 22 February 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of 14 clear working days notice, provided that this authority shall business on 22 January 2016, subject to shareholder approval.
expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the RESOLUTIONS 4 TO 14 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Company after the date of the passing of this Resolution.
Biographical details of all the directors standing for election or Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of a poll.
re-election appear on pages 40 and 41 of the 2015 Annual Report.
By Order of the Board In line with the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, Nelson Silva, Johnny Thomson and Ireena Vittal who were appointed MARK WHITE by the Board since the date of the last AGM, will submit himself General Counsel and Company Secretary herself for election by shareholders.
Details of their appointments 18 December 2015 are given on page 44.
Registered Office: Compass House The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Guildford Street directors to retire by rotation each year and no director may serve Chertsey for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
Surrey KT16 9BQ However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all the directors will submit himself herself for annual Registered in England and Wales No.
Having conducted an evaluation during the year, it is the view of the Chairman that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that each director demonstrates commitment to the role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
RESOLUTIONS 15 AND 16 AUDITOR The auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders.
The current appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor will end at the conclusion of the AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for reappointment.
In accordance with provisions of the Code it is recommended practice for the Audit Committee to be authorised to agree how much the auditor should be paid and Resolution 16 grants this authority to the Audit Committee.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 155 Shareholder information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED RESOLUTION 17 DONATIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES for cash other than pursuant to an employee equity incentive share It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
However, scheme up to an aggregate nominal value of approximately 10% it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken by the Company of the Companys issued ordinary share capital without application and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within the wide definition of pre-emption rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys of matters constituting political donations and expenditure in the Articles of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under the CA 2006 must The proposed 10% authority reflects the new Statement of first be approved by shareholders and will be disclosed in next years Principles on pre-emption rights issued earlier this year by the Annual Report.
This Resolution, if passed, will renew the directors Pre-emption Group the Principles which are supported by the authority until the AGM to be held in 2017 when the directors intend Investment Association and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings to renew this authority to make donations and incur expenditure Association.
In addition to the routine 5% authority previously which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the CA 2006, permitted, the new Principles now grant the Company the ability up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 for the Company and for to seek authority over a further 5% of the issued ordinary share subsidiary companies.
capital on a pre-emptive basis, provided that this authority will only be used for the purpose of: RESOLUTION 18 DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES The purpose of Resolution 18 is to renew the directors power i an acquisition: or to allot shares.
Resolution 18.1 seeks to grant the directors authority ii a s pecified capital investment in respect of which sufficient to allot, pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association information regarding the effect of the investment on the and section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with a maximum Company, the assets that are the subject of the investment and nominal amount of 58,244,125.
This represents 548,180,000 where appropriate the profits attributable to those assets is 5 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each in the capital of the Company, made available to shareholders to enable them to reach an which is approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary assessment of the potential return on the investment share capital excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2015 which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or which being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
has taken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed The Company currently holds 12,228,519 shares in treasury.
The in the announcement of the issue.
authority would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, remain in force up to the conclusion of the AGM of Other than in connection with a rights, scrip dividend, or other similar the Company to be held in 2017 2017 AGM, or 3 May 2017, issue, the authority contained in this Resolution 19 would be limited whichever is earlier.
to a maximum nominal amount of 17,472,812.
5 In accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital This represents 164,450,000 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each Management Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 18.2 seeks in the capital of the Company, which is approximately 10% of the to grant the directors authority to allot approximately a further one Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding as at 1 December 2015 being the last practicable date prior treasury shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary to the publication of this Notice.
The authority would, unless shareholders with a nominal value of up to 58,224,125 representing previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, expire at 5 548,180,000 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each.
Such additional the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2017 authority will be valid until the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority permitted Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all directors stand for schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the directors have re-election.
The Companys current practice is that all directors submit no current plans to utilise either of the authorities sought by themselves for re-election each year in accordance with the Code, Resolutions 18 and 19, although they consider their renewal notwithstanding the provisions set out in the Guidelines.
appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
In addition, and in line with The total authorisation sought by Resolution 18 is equal to approximately best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at its issued share capital on a non-pro rata basis over the last three 1 December 2015, being the last practicable date prior to publication years.
The limit also applies to shares issued from treasury.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at each subsequent Resolutions 1 to 18 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and require AGM and the Board confirms its intention to follow best practice that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of a resolution set out in the Principles which provides that usage of this authority for it to be passed.
in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in a rolling three year period would not take place without prior RESOLUTION 19 DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS consultation with shareholders.
If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must RESOLUTION 20 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing This Resolution authorises the directors to make limited on market holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited by the directors to issue a limited number of ordinary shares for cash to a maximum of 164,450,000 shares just under 10% of the without offering them to existing shareholders.
issued ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2015, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and Resolution 19 seeks to replace the authority conferred on the directors details the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive at the 2015 AGM to allot ordinary shares, or grant rights to subscribe of expenses.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire for, or convert securities into, ordinary shares or sell treasury shares at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from the passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
156 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 The CA 2006 permits the Company to hold shares repurchased as IMPORTANT INFORMATION treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or PROXIES used for the purpose of employee equity incentive share schemes.
The i A s hareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may authority to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a shareholder of to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends the Company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, will be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting speak and vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will be appointed, each proxy must be appointed for different shares.
used to satisfy the Companys obligations under the Companys employee equity incentive schemes.
Proxies may only be appointed by: On 27 November 2013, the Company announced its intention to C ompleting and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with commence a 500 million share repurchase programme, to be this Notice to PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent executed over the 12 month period to the end of 2014.
The programme BR3 4ZF was temporarily suspended following the announcement on 14 May G oing to www.
com and following the 2014 of the 1 billion Return of Cash to shareholders and associated instructions for electronic submission provided there: or Share Capital Consolidation until after completion of this transaction H aving an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you on 29 July 2014.
The 500 million share repurchase programme are a user of the CREST system including CREST personal recommenced on 31 July 2014 and completed on 10August 2015. members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear website www.
com CREST for further information On 30 September 2015, the Company announced its intention to repurchase up to a maximum of 8 million shares during the close R eturn of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a shareholder period from 1 October 2015 to the date of this Report.
from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, if you do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be As at 1 December 2015 being the last practicable date prior to treated as revoked.
the publication of this Notice, there were options to subscribe for ordinary shares issued by the Company outstanding over approximately T he electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided 20,646,200 shares which represent 1.25% of the Companys issued solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders to register the ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the appointment of a proxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised their voting directions electronically.
You may not use any in full, these options would represent 1.38% of the Companys issued electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
RESOLUTION 21 NOTICE OF MEETINGS OTHER THAN ANNUAL ii T o be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed in GENERAL MEETINGS accordance with the instructions and received by the Companys The Companys Articles of Association allow the directors to call registrar by 12 noon on Tuesday 2 February 2016. general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 working days notice.
However, under the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations T o appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a previously 2009 the Regulations, all general meetings must be held on 21 appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, and must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon the Company has met the requirements for electronic voting under on Tuesday 2 February 2016.
Please note, however, that proxy the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to renew the authority granted messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, public by shareholders at last years AGM which preserved the Companys holidays or after 8.00pm on any other day.
For the purpose of ability to call general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 working days this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time notice, such authority to be effective until the Companys next AGM, as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the when a similar resolution will be proposed.
The directors confirm that CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able the shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine, to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other but only where flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that and it is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
have appointed voting service provider s should contact their An electronic voting facility will be made available to all shareholders CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with for any meeting held on such notice.
Resolutions 19 to 21 will be proposed as special resolutions and F or further information on CREST procedures, limitations require that at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in favour and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We of a resolution for it to be passed.
may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the RECOMMENDATION Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
The directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of all Resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 157 Shareholder information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED iii P ursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities WEBSITE PUBLICATION OF AUDIT CONCERNS Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have a right to Company specifies that only those shareholders registered request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at the in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on AGM relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Tuesday 2 February 2016 or, in the event that the Meeting is Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the Companys adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote auditor who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company will publish the statement if sufficient requests have been received at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the in accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 which, broadly, requires a minimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 941 Register of Members after 6.00pm on Tuesday 2 February 2016 or, in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, less than 48 hours ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital to make the request.
The before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with such request.
a statement is published, the Company will forward the statement to NOMINATED PERSONS the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the Any person to whom a copy of this Notice is sent who is a person statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him or required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to publish on its website.
her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION Copies of the service agreements of the executive directors, the letters for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such of appointment of the non-executive directors, the directors deeds of indemnity and the Register of Directors Interests will be available for agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
inspection during normal business hours from the date of dispatch of this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the holidays excepted at the registered office of the Company, Compass appointment of proxies in note i above does not apply to Nominated House, Guildford Street, Chertsey KT16 9BQ, and will also be made Persons.
The rights described in that note can only be exercised by available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during shareholders of the Company.
the continuance of the Meeting.
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS AND AGM BUSINESS TOTAL VOTING RIGHTS Under sections 338 and section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders As at 1 December 2015 being the last practicable date prior meeting the threshold requirements which, broadly, requires a to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital minimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 941 ordinary comprised 1,644,548,863 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at issued share capital, have the right to require the Company i to give general meetings of the Company.
On a vote by show of hands, every to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the AGM, ordinary shareholder who is present has one vote and every proxy notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended present who has been duly appointed by a shareholder entitled to vote to be moved at the AGM and or ii to include in the business to be has one vote.
On a vote by poll every ordinary shareholder who is dealt with at the AGM any matter other than a proposed resolution present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share which may be properly included in the business.
It is proposed that all votes on the Resolutions at the AGM will be properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the taken by way of a poll.
business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2015 any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is were 1,644,548,863 excluding treasury shares.
defamatory, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON WEBSITE in hard copy or electronic form and must identify the resolution of The following information is available on the Companys website at which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the www.
com: business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than Wednesday 23 i t he matters set out in this Notice of Meeting: December 2015, being the date six clear weeks before the AGM, and ii t he total voting rights and number of shares of each class in in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting rights accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
at the AGM: iii s hareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at the RIGHT TO ASK QUESTIONS AGM: and Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the right to iv s hareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting and received by the Company after 18 December 2015. for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of confidential information, if the answer has already been published on the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question be answered.
158 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 TAYBEN AVENUE TALMA GARDENS EGERTON ROAD CHUDLEIGH ROAD PALMERSTON ROAD RUGBY ROAD WHITTON ROAD WHITTON ROAD EAST STAND WEST STAND THE AGM If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the The doors of the Live Room at Twickenham RFU Stadium will open Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged at 10.30am and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
Please see the proxy vote.
map below for the location of Twickenham RFU Stadium.
Car parking is Whomever you appoint as a proxy can vote or abstain from voting available for shareholders as indicated on the map.
For more information as he or she decides on any other business, which may validly come of how to get to the venue, go to www.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST service.
Details of how to complete the appointment of a proxy either ATTENDING THE AGM electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card with you.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the AGM VENUE ARRANGEMENTS and will speed your admission.
You may also find it useful to bring this For your personal safety and security, all hand baggage may be Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2015 so that you can refer to subject to examination.
Please note that electronic devices such as them at the AGM.
All joint shareholders may attend and speak at the cameras and recording equipment may not be brought into the AGM.
However, only the first shareholder listed on the Register of A cloakroom will be available to deposit coats and bulky items.
Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the Company, and A sign language interpreter will attend the AGM and a sound subject to sufficient seating capacity, a shareholder may enter with amplification hearing loop will be available in the meeting room.
one guest, provided that the shareholder and their guest register to enter the AGM at the same time.
Anyone accompanying a shareholder in need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any shareholder QUESTIONS with a disability has any questions regarding attendance at the AGM, All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish to Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by ask a question, please wait for a Company representative to bring you 28 January 2016. a microphone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name before Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company will you ask your question.
A question may not be answered at the Meeting not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons security, if it is not considered to be in the interests of the Company or the good safety or the good order of the AGM.
order of the Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of sensitive Please ensure that all electronic equipment is switched off throughout information.
The Chairman may also nominate a representative to the AGM.
answer a specific question after the Meeting or refer the questioner to the Companys website.
Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light refreshments will be served afterwards.
VOTING AT THE AGM The Company proposes that all Resolutions to be proposed at the SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES AGM will be put to the vote on a poll.
This will result in a more accurate Capita Asset Services maintain the Companys share register.
If you reflection of the views of all of the Companys shareholders by ensuring have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you that every vote is recognised, including the votes of shareholders who are should contact Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham unable to attend the Meeting but who have appointed a proxy for the Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for each share held.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT ENQUIRIES After each Resolution is put to the Meeting, you will be asked to cast BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary Receipt your vote.
All of the votes of the shareholders present will be counted, register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding of Compass and added to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes American Depositary Shares, you should contact BNY Mellon, will be displayed at the Meeting.
Box 30170, College Station The voting results, which will include all votes cast for and against TX 77842-3170, USA each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the Meeting, will be announced at the Meeting and published on the DATA PROTECTION STATEMENT Companys website as soon as practicable after the Meeting.
The Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, Company will also disclose the number of votes withheld.
which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The WHITTON define MOGDEN LANE Company and any third party to which it discloses the data including 1 CAR PARK ENTRANCE THE LIVE ROOM FOR SHAREHOLDERS the Companys registrar may process your personal data for the E CAR PARK ENTRANCE E MAIN CAR PARK PARKING P purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling FOR SHAREHOLDERS RS RFU RUGBY STORE its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
WEBB ELLIS MARRIOTT HOTEL M HOUSE PUBLISHED INFORMATION TRADING If you would like to receive this Notice and or a copy of the Annual ESTATE M Report 2015 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, P Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Company RS 1 CAR DEALERSHIP Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
WHITTON STATION Our 2015 Annual Report and this Notice are available at CENTRAL LONDON TWICKENHAM www.
RICHMOND STATION Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 159 M25 M3 THE WEST WHITTON ROAD A316 CHERTSEY ROAD NORTH STAND SOUTH STAND DUKE OF NORTHMBERLAND RIVER GLOSSARY OF TERMS Constant currency Restates the prior year results to 2015's average exchange rates.
Underlying revenue The combined sales of Group and share of equity accounted joint ventures.
Underlying operating profit Includes share of profit after tax of associates and profit before tax of joint ventures but excludes some specific adjusting items.
Underlying operating margin Based on underlying revenue and underlying operating profit excluding share of profit after tax of associates.
Underlying profit before tax Excludes specific adjusting items.
Underlying effective tax rate Based on underlying tax charge and underlying profit before tax.
Underlying basic earnings per share Excludes specific adjusting items and the tax attributable to those items.
Underlying free cash flow Adjusted for cash restructuring costs in the year relating to the 2012 and 2013 European exceptional programme.
Underlying cash tax rate Based on underlying cash tax and underlying profit before tax.
Underlying gross capex Includes Group and share of equity accounted joint ventures capex spend.
Organic revenue growth Calculated by adjusting for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full year in respect of prior year acquisitions, disposals excluded from both years and exchange rate movements translating the prior year at current year exchange rates and compares the current year results against the prior year.
Specific adjusting items amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition acquisition transaction costs adjustment to contingent consideration on acquisition tax on share of profit of joint ventures loss profit on disposal of US businesses hedge accounting ineffectiveness Underlying net finance cost Excludes hedge accounting ineffectiveness.
Underlying tax Excludes tax attributable to specific adjusting items.
Organic operating profit growth Calculated by adjusting operating profit for acquisitions excluding current year acquisitions and including a full year in respect of prior year acquisitions, disposals excluded from both years and exchange rate movements translating the prior year at current year exchange rates and compares the current year results against the prior year.
EM & OR restructuring Emerging Markets and Offshore & Remote restructuring.
Emerging Markets Fast Growing & Emerging region, excluding Australia.
160 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward looking statements.
Forward looking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in economic conditions, the strength of the food and support services markets in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, fluctuations in food and other product costs and prices and changes in exchange and interest rates.
Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of forward looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
This Report is printed on a combination of Amadeus Printed in the UK by Pureprint Group using vegetable inks 100 Silk and Amadeus 100 Offset.
Pureprint Group is ISO 9001:2000, is produced using 100% recycled waste, the pulp is ISO 14001, EMAS and FSC certified.
bleached using a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process.
Amadeus 100 Offset is produced using 100% The images in this document are representative of the post-consumer waste, the pulp is bleached using an services provided by Compass Group PLC and its Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Both materials subsidiaries and partners.
are Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified and are produced at mills that hold the ISO 14001 Designed and produced by environmental management standard.
COMPASS GROUP PLC Compass House Guildford Street Chertsey Surrey KT16 9BQ United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales No.
