Financial statements Notes to the financial statements c New standards, amendments From this date, the property fund units were 1.
General information andinterpretations transferred to available-for-sale financial Countrywide plc the Company, and its Standards, amendments and interpretations assets with subsequent changes invaluation subsidiaries together, the Group, is the effective and adopted by the Group being recorded in other comprehensive leading integrated, full service residential The annual improvements to existing standards income.
Please refer to notes16 and 17 estate agency and property services group which are mandatory for the Group for the forfurther information.
inthe UK, measured by both revenue and first time for the financial year beginning transaction volumes in 2015.
It offers estate The purchase method of accounting is used onor after 1 January 2015 IFRS 1, IFRS 3, agency and lettings services, together with to account for acquisitions and the cost of IFRS13, IAS 40 and IFRIC 21 have had arange of complementary services, and acquisition is measured as the fair value of nomaterial impact on the Group.
hasa significant presence in key areas and assets given, equity instruments issued and property types which are promoted through New standards and liabilities incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired locally respected brands.
 adopted and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed Certain new accounting standards and in a business combination are measured at their The Company is a public limited company, interpretations have been published that fair value at the acquisition date.
Acquisition which is listed on the London Stock Exchange arenot mandatory for 31 December 2015 costs are written off to the income statement.
and incorporated and domiciled in the UK reporting periods and have not been early The accounting policies of subsidiaries registered number: 08340090.
The address adopted by the Group.
None of these new acquired are changed, where necessary, of its registered office is County House, standards or interpretations are expected to toensure consistency with policies operated Ground Floor, 100 New London Road, have a material impact on the consolidated bythe Group.
financial statements of the Group, with the The Group recognises any non-controlling exception of the following: 2.
Accounting policies interest in the acquiree on an  to IAS 19 acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the The principal accounting policies applied Employeebenefits: non-controlling interests proportionate share inthe preparation of these consolidated of the recognised amounts of the acquirees financial statements are set out below.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments: identifiable net assets.
If the business Thesepolicies have been consistently IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts combination is achieved in stages, the applied to the years presented.
withcustomers: and acquisition date fair value of the acquirers a Basis of preparation previously held equity interest in the acquiree IFRS 16 Leases.
The consolidated financial statements have is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition been prepared under the historical cost The directors do not expect that the adoption date through profit or loss.
convention, as modified by the revaluation of the standards listed above will have a Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the ofavailable-for-sale financial assets and material impact on the financial statements aggregate of the consideration transferred financial liabilities at fair value through profit of the Group in future periods, except that and fair value of non-controlling interest over or loss, and in accordance with International IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement the fair value of the net identifiable assets Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and and disclosures of financial instruments, acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC IFRS15 may have an impact on revenue consideration is lower than the fair value asadopted by the European Union and recognition and related disclosures and ofnet assets of the subsidiary acquired, the theCompanies Act 2006 applicable to IFRS16 will require virtually all lease contracts difference is recognised in profit or loss.
to be recognised on the balance sheet as well as significant new, enhanced disclosures.
Transactions with non-controlling interests The preparation of the consolidated financial Atthis stage the Group is not able to estimate that do not result in loss of control are information in conformity with IFRS requires the impact of the new rules on the Groups accounted for as equity transactions that the use of certain critical accounting estimates financial statements.
The Group will make is, as transactions with the owners in their and requires management to exercise more detailed assessments of the impact capacity as owners.
The difference between judgement in the process of applying the over the next twelve months.
fair value of any consideration paid and the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving relevant share acquired of the carrying value a higher degree of judgement or complexity, d Basis of consolidation of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded or areas where assumptions and estimates Subsidiaries inequity.
Gains or losses on disposals to are significant to the consolidated financial Subsidiaries are all entities over which the non-controlling interests are also recorded statements, are disclosed in note 3.
The Group controls an inequity.
entity when the Group is exposed to, or has b Going concern rights to, variable returns from its involvement Joint ventures These financial statements have been prepared with the entity and has the ability to affect Under the equity method of accounting, on a going concern basis, which assumes that those returns through its power over the interests in joint ventures are initially recognised the Group will be able to meet its liabilities entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise when they fall due for the foreseeable future.
from the date on which control is transferred the Groups share of the post-acquisition The Board of directors has reviewed cash to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from profits or losses and movements in other flow forecasts, which have been stress tested the date that control ceases.
When the Groups with various assumptions regarding future share of losses in a joint venture equals or housing market volumes, and concluded that During 2014, the Group consolidated the exceeds its interests in the joint venture, the it is appropriate to prepare the financial results and position of Albion PRS Investments Group does not recognise further losses statements on a going concern basis.
Unit Trust see note 16 as the Group controlled except to the extent that it has incurred the Unit Trust and had the ability to affect obligations or made payments on behalf of returns though its power over the Unit Trust.
Accounting policies of the Further external investment in 2015, and joint venture are aligned where applicable.
finalisation of a full and independent fund structure, removed the ability of the Group tocontrol the investment from 15May 2015.
82 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements The following exchange rates were applied Depreciation 2.
Accounting policies continued for 1 Sterling at 31 December: Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a d Basis of consolidation continued straight line basis over the estimated useful Transactions eliminated on consolidation 2015 2014 lives of each part of an item of property, plant Intra-group balances, and any gains and Hong Kong Dollars 11.49 12.10 and equipment.
The property, plant and losses or income and expenses arising from Euros 1.36 1.28 equipment acquired under finance leases intra-group transactions, are eliminated isdepreciated over the shorter of the useful Barbadian Dollars 3.12 inpreparing the consolidated financial life of the asset and the lease term.
Gains arising from transactions f Property, plant and equipment land is not depreciated.
The estimated useful with jointly controlled entities are eliminated Investment property lives are as follows: to the extent of the Groups interest in the Investment property, which is property held entity.
Losses are eliminated in the same Freehold buildings 50 years to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is wayas gains, but only to the extent that initially measured at cost, including related Leasehold improvements over the there is no evidence of impairment.
transaction costs, and is then stated at fair period of the lease e Foreign currency translation value.
Changes in the fair value of investment Furniture and equipment three to five years The functional currency of the Company is property are included in profits for the year Pounds Sterling because that is the currency to which they relate.
The valuation methods Motor vehicles three to five years of the primary economic environment in applied are detailed in note 16.
The residual values and useful lives are which the Group operates.
The Groups Owned assets reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, presentational currency is Pounds Sterling.
Items of property, plant and equipment are ateach balance sheet date.
Transactions and balances stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated g Intangible assets Foreign currency transactions are translated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost Goodwill into the functional currency using the exchange includes the original purchase price of the Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
asset and the costs attributable to bringing of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Goodwill Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting the asset to its working condition for its intended represents the excess of the cost of an from the settlement of such transactions and use.
When parts of an item of property, plant acquisition over the fair value of the Groups from the translation at year-end exchange and equipment have different useful lives, those share of the net identifiable assets of the rates of monetary assets and liabilities components are accounted for as separate acquiree at the date of acquisition and the denominated in foreign currencies are items of property, plant and equipment.
value of the non-controlling interest in the recognised in the income statement.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets acquiree.
Acquisition costs are written off Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate carrying amount or recognised as a separate tothe income statement.
to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated are presented in the income statement within that future economic benefits associated with impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to finance income or costs.
All other foreign the item will flow to the Group and the cost cash generating units and is not amortised exchange gains and losses are presented in of the item can be measured reliably.
but is tested annually for impairment or more the income statement within other income Gains and losses on disposals are frequently if events or changes in circumstances or other operating costs.
determined by comparing the proceeds indicate potential impairment.
The allocation Group companies withthe carrying amount and are recognised is made to those cash generating units or The results and financial position of all the in the income statement.
groups of units that are expected to benefit Group entities none of which have the currency from the business combination in which the Leased assets of a hyperinflationary economy that have goodwill arose.
The units or groups of units Leases under which the Group assumes afunctional currency different from the are identified at the lowest level at which substantially all the risks and rewards of presentation currency are translated into goodwill is monitored for internal ownership of an asset are classified as finance thepresentation currency as follows: management purposes.
Property, plant and equipment acquired assets and liabilities for each balance sheet under finance leases is recorded at fair value In respect of joint ventures, the carrying amount presented are translated at the closing rate or, if lower, the present value of minimum of goodwill is included in the carrying amount at the date of that balance sheet: lease payments at inception of the lease, of the investment in the joint venture.
lessaccumulated depreciation and any income and expenses for each income Excess of the acquirers interest in the net impairment losses.
statement presented are translated at fairvalue of the acquirees identifiable assets, average exchange rates unless this average Each lease payment is allocated between the liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost is not a reasonable approximation of the liability and finance charges.
The corresponding arising on an acquisition is recognised in cumulative effect of the rates prevailing rental obligations, net of finance charges, theincome statement.
onthe transaction dates, in which case areincluded within borrowings.
The interest income and expenses are translated at the element of the finance cost is charged to rate on the dates of the transactions : and theincome statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate all resulting exchange differences are ofinterest on the remaining balance of the recognised in other comprehensive income.
The property, plant Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising and equipment under finance leases is on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated depreciated over the shorter of the useful as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity lifeof the asset and lease term.
and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 83 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued Impairment losses represent the amount Dividends on AFS equity instruments are 2.
Accounting policies continued bywhich the carrying value exceeds the recognised in profit or loss when the Groups g Intangible assets continued recoverable amount: they are recognised in right to receive the dividends is established.
Other intangible assets profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised Intangible assets other than goodwill that are Recognition and measurement in respect of cash generating units are allocated acquired by the Group, principally acquired Regular purchases and sales of financial assets first to reduce the carrying amount of any brands, customer contracts and relationships, are recognised on the trade date: the date goodwill allocated to the cash generating unit computer software, pipeline and other on which the Group commits to purchase or and then to reduce the carrying amount of the intangibles, are stated at cost less accumulated sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
amortisation, where charged, and impairment when the rights to receive cash flows from losses.
Brands are considered to have An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is the investments have expired or have been indefinite lives.
In respect of other assets, an transferred and the Group has transferred impairment loss is reversed if there has been substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Acquired computer software is capitalised on a change in the estimates used to determine the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and Loans and receivables and available-for-sale the recoverable amount.
bring to use the specific software.
Internal financial assets are initially recognised at fair costs that are incurred during the development An impairment loss is reversed only to the value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are of significant and separately identifiable extent that the assets carrying amount does subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans computer software for use in the business not exceed the carrying amount that would andreceivables are subsequently carried are capitalised where the software is integral have been determined, net of depreciation atamortised cost using the effective to the generation of future economic benefits.
or amortisation, if no impairment loss had interestmethod.
Internal costs that are capitalised are limited been recognised.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and to incremental costs specific to the project.
i Financial assets non-monetary securities classified as Other development expenditures that do Classification available-for-sale are recognised in other notmeet the criteria for capitalisation are The Group classifies its financial assets as comprehensive income.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
loans and receivables and available-for-sale Development costs previously recognised When securities classified as  assets.
The classification depends asan expense are not recognised as an sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated on the purpose for which the financial assets asset in a subsequent period.
fair value adjustments recognised in equity were acquired.
Management determines are included in the income statement as Amortisation theclassification of its financial assets at gains and losses from investment securities.
Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on a initial recognition.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity straight line basis over the estimated useful Loans and receivables instruments are recognised in the income lives of intangible assets unless such lives Loans and receivables are non-derivative statement as part of other income when are indefinite.
The estimated useful lives are financial assets with fixed or determinable theGroups right to receive payments as follows: payments that arise principally through the isestablished.
Computer software one to five years provision of services to customers.
They Impairment of financial assets areinitially recognised at fair value and are Brand names indefinite life Impairment provisions are recognised when subsequently stated at amortised cost using there is objective evidence such as significant Assets are tested annually for impairment the effective interest method.
They are included financial difficulties on the part of the ormore frequently if events or changes in in current assets, except for maturities counterparty or default or significant delay circumstances indicate potential impairment.
greater than twelve months after the end of inpayment that the Group will be unable the reporting period.
Loans and receivables Customer contacts and relationships tocollect all of the amounts due under the comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents fiveto ten years terms receivable, the amount of such a and trade and other receivables.
provision being the difference between the Pipeline agreed but un-exchanged house Available-for-sale net carrying amount and the present value sales at date of acquisition three months Available-for-sale financial assets are ofthe future expected cash flows associated Other intangibles 25 years non-derivative financial assets that are either with the impaired receivable.
designated in this category or not classified h Impairment of non-financial assets For trade receivables, which are reported net in any of the other categories.
They are The carrying amounts of the Groups of provisions, such provisions are recorded included in non-current assets unless the non-current assets are reviewed for impairment ina separate provision account with the loss investment matures or management intends annually or whenever events and changes being recognised within other operating costs to dispose of it within twelve months of the incircumstances indicate that the carrying in the income statement.
On confirmation that end of the reporting period.
amount may not be recoverable.
If any such the trade receivable will not be collectable, indication exists, the assets recoverable Available-for-sale AFS financial assets are the gross carrying value of the asset is amount is estimated.
non-derivatives valued on the following basis written off against the associated provision.
In respect of goodwill, intangible assets that In the case of assets classified as availablehave an indefinite useful life and intangible Gains and losses arising from changes in fair for-sale, impairment losses are recognised in assets that are not yet available for use, the value are recognised in other comprehensive the consolidated income statement and arise recoverable amount is estimated at each income and accumulated in the AFS revaluation from objective evidence that these assets balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount reserve with the exception of impairment have declined in value such as a significant is the higher of fair value less costs to sell losses which are recognised directly in profit or prolonged decline in the fair value of the and value in use.
Where the investment is disposed security below its cost.
of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in the AFS revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
84 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Defined contribution plans q Provisions 2.
Accounting policies continued The Group pays fixed contributions to A provision is recognised in the balance j Trade and other receivables separately administered pension insurance sheet when the Group has a present legal Trade and other receivables are recognised plans.
The Group has no further obligations orconstructive obligation as a result of a initially at fair value and subsequently measured once the contributions have been paid.
The past event, and it is probable that an outflow at amortised cost less an impairment provision.
contributions are recognised as an employee of economic benefits will be required to settle A provision for impairment of trade receivables benefit expense when they are due.
Provisions are determined by is established when there is objective evidence discounting the expected future cash flows that the Group will not be able to collect all Defined benefit plans at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market amounts due according to the original terms The liability recognised in the balance sheet assessments of the time value of money and, of the receivables.
Significant trade receivables in respect of defined benefit pension plans when appropriate, the risks specific to the are reviewed for impairment if they are past isthe present value of the defined benefit liability.
The increase in the provision due to due.
Trade receivables past due beyond 90 obligation at the end of the reporting period passage of time is recognised in finance costs.
days for individual customers or 180 days less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined forcommercial contracts that are not assessed benefit obligation is calculated annually by r Share capital tobe impaired individually are, in addition, independent actuaries using the projected Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
The present value of the Incremental costs directly attributable to defined benefit obligation is determined by theissue of new shares are shown in share k Cash and cash equivalents discounting the estimated future cash outflows premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash using interest rates of high quality corporate Where the employee benefit trust purchases balances and call deposits with an original bonds that are denominated in the currency the Companys equity share capital treasury maturity of three months or less.
Bank in which the benefits will be paid and that shares, the consideration paid, including any overdrafts that are repayable on demand have terms to maturity approximating to the directly attributable incremental costs, is andform an integral part of the Groups cash terms of the related pension obligation.
deducted from equity attributable to the management are included as a component Companys equity holders until the shares of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose Actuarial gains and losses arising from are cancelled or reissued.
of the statement of cash flows and are experience adjustments and changes in presented in current liabilities.
actuarial assumptions are charged or s Revenue credited to equity in other comprehensive Services rendered l Trade and other payables income in the period in which they arise.
Revenue comprises mainly commission and Trade and other payables are recognised fees receivable.
Commission earned on sales initially at fair value and subsequently Past service costs are recognised of residential and commercial property is measured at amortised cost.
accounted for on the exchange of contracts for m Borrowings p Share-based payments such sales.
Survey, valuation and conveyancing Borrowings are initially recognised at fair The Group operates a number of equity-settled fees are accounted for on completion of the value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Such share-based schemes under which the service being provided.
Commission earned interest-bearing liabilities are subsequently Group receives services from employees as on sales of insurance policies, mortgages measured at amortised cost using the effective consideration for equity instruments options and related products is accounted for when interest rate method, which ensures that any of the Group.
The fair value of the employee the policies go on risk or the mortgage is interest expense over the period to repayment services received in exchange for the grant exchanged.
The Group offers the following is at aconstant rate on the balance of the of the options is recognised as an expense.
residential lettings services to customers: liability carried in the balance sheet.
Interest Where the share awards have non-market Tenant Introduction, Tenant Renewal, Standard expense in this context includes initial related performance criteria the Group has Lettings often referred to as Rent Collection, transaction costs and premiums payable on used the Binomial Lattice and Black Scholes or a Full Property Management service, plus redemption, as well as any interest payable option valuation models to establish the aLeasehold Property Management service.
while the liability is outstanding.
Where the share awards Commissions and fees earned for Tenant have TSR market-related performance criteria Introduction or Tenant Renewal in respect n Options to acquire the Group has used the Monte Carlo simulation of securing or extending the letting are non-controlling interests valuation model to establish the relevant fair recognised in full at the point of delivery Options to acquire non-controlling interests values see note 27.
The resulting values are ofthe service, which is considered to be in the future are initially accounted for at fair amortised through the income statement when the underlying tenancy agreement value with a corresponding charge directly over the vesting period of the options and commences.
Such options are subsequently other grants.
based on historical experience, is recognised measured at fair value, using the effective for those contracts containing a break clause interest rate method, in order to accrete At the end of each reporting period, the Group and which may require a refund if broken theliability up to the amount payable under revises its estimates of the number of options early.
Fees for standard lettings and property the option at the date at which it becomes that are expected to vest based on the management services, including leasehold exercisable.
The charge arising is recorded non-market conditions and recognises the property management services, are recognised as a finance cost and the liability is shown impact of the revision to original estimates, on a straight line basis over the life of the inother financial liabilities.
The risks and ifany, in the income statement, with a agreement.
Revenue generated by Surveying rewards of ownership of the non-controlling corresponding adjustment to equity.
Services from panel management contracts interests remain with the sellers and therefore The social security contributions payable in is reported net of any fees paid on behalf of the non-controlling interest is recognised by connection with the grant of the share options panel valuers, reflecting the fact that the Group the Group.
The put options are contractual are considered an integral part of the grant does not act as the principal in these contracts.
puts at the discretion of the sellers.
itself, and the charge will be treated as a o Pensions cash-settled transaction.
The Group operates various post-employment schemes, including both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 85 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued v Net finance costs The following temporary differences are not 2.
Accounting policies continued Finance costs provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: s Revenue continued Finance costs comprise interest payable the initial recognition of other assets or liabilities Services rendered continued onborrowings including finance lease that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: Revenue in respect of consultancy services commitments, net interest costs on the and differences relating to investments in performed is recognised as activity progresses pension scheme liabilities, the unwinding subsidiaries to the extent that they are unlikely to reflect the Groups partial performance of ofthe discount rates in respect of financial to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount its contractual obligations.
Activity performance liabilities and provisions, premiums payable of deferred tax provided is based on the in excess of invoices raised is included within on settlement or redemption and direct issue expected manner of realisation or settlement amounts due from customers for contract costs.
Interest costs accrue using the effective of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, work.
Where amounts have been invoiced interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment using tax rates enacted or substantively inexcess of work performed, the excess is of loan facilities are recognised as transaction enacted at the balance sheet date.
included within amounts due to customers costs of the loan and amortised over the for contract work.
If the right to consideration A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the period to which the facility relates.
is conditional or contingent on a specified extent that it is probable that future taxable future event or outcome, the outcome of Finance income profits will be available against which the asset which is outside the control of the Group, Finance income comprises interest receivable can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced revenue is not recognised until that critical on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised to the extent that it is no longer probable that event occurs.
in profit or loss as it accrues using the effective the related tax benefit will be realised.
Under certain service contracts, the Group Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are manages client expenditure and is obliged to w Adjusting items offset when there is a legally enforceable right purchase goods and services from suppliers As permitted by IAS 1 Presentation and to offset current tax assets against current and recharge them on to the customer at disclosure certain items are presented tax liabilities and when the deferred income cost.
The amounts charged by suppliers and separately in the income statement as taxes assets and liabilities relate to income recharged to clients are excluded from exceptional where, in the judgement of the taxes levied by the same taxation authority revenue and administrative expenses.
directors, they need to be disclosed separately on either the taxable entity or different taxable Receivables, payables and cash relating to by virtue of their nature, size orincidence entities where there is an intention to settle these transactions are included in the inorder to obtain a clear andconsistent the balances on a net basis.
presentation of the Groups underlying Deferred income tax is provided on business performance.
Examples of material Deferred income temporary differences arising on investments and non-recurring items which may give rise Where the Group receives an amount upfront in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except for to disclosure as exceptional items include in respect of future income streams, the value deferred income tax liability where the timing strategic costs of restructuring existing of the receipt is amortised over the period of of the reversal of the temporary difference businesses, integration of newly acquired the contract as the services are delivered iscontrolled by the Group and it is probable businesses, asset impairments andcosts and the unexpired element is disclosed in that the temporary difference will not reverse associated with acquiring new businesses.
The columnar presentation of our income t Other income Additional income taxes that arise from statement separates exceptional items as well Other income is recognised when its receipt thedistribution of dividends are recognised as adjusting items, specifically amortisation is assured and the Group has no further atthe same time as the liability to pay the ofintangibles arising on business acquisitions, obligations to any other party in respect related dividend.
contingent consideration and share-based ofthat income.
Rental income from sub-let payments, to illustrate consistently the Groups y Segment reporting properties is recognised in profit or loss on underlying business performance.
Operating segments are reported in a manner astraight line basis over the term of the lease.
consistent with the internal reporting to the Lease incentives granted are recognised as x Income tax Executive Committee which has been identified an integral part of the total rental income.
Income tax comprises current and deferred as the chief operating decision maker.
Dividend income is recognised when the tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss right to receive payment is established.
except to the extent that it relates to items z Dividend distribution recognised in other comprehensive income Dividend distribution to the Companys u Operating lease payments or directly in equity, in which case it is shareholders is recognised as a liability in Payments under operating leases are recognised in other comprehensive income theGroups financial statements in the period recognised in profit or loss on a straight line or directly in equity respectively.
in which the dividends are approved by the basis over the term of the lease.
Interim dividends incentives received are recognised in profit Current tax is the expected tax payable on are recognised when paid.
or loss as an integral part of the total the taxable income for the year, using tax leaseexpense.
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts ofassets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxationpurposes.
86 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements undertaken to date.
This projection takes Average loss the average of total incurred 3.
Critical accounting into account the historic claim rate, the losses for closed claims.
judgementsand estimates claim liability rate and the average loss per The preparation of the Groups consolidated The average loss in respect of all exceptional claim.
In view of the significant events in financial statements under IFRS requires the claims received has increased by 6%: however the financial markets and the UK property directors to make estimates and assumptions this has had a small impact on the provision market in recent years, the directors have that affect the reported amounts of assets because a proportion of these losses has been identified a separate sub-population of and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent borne by insurers.
However this is the loss claims received which is tracked separately assets and liabilities.
Estimates and judgements used to estimate the value of unreported claims.
from the normal level of claims.
This are continually evaluated and are based Our experience in respect of the average sub-population has been defined as claims onhistorical experience and other factors loss arising from those claims closed over received since 2009 for surveys carried including expectations of future events that the past two years reflects a decline of 9%.
out between 2004 and 2008. are believed to be reasonable under the This is the value used to estimate the further circumstances.
Actual results may differ The estimate of these provisions by their provision required for claims already received.
fromthese estimates, given the uncertainty nature is judgemental.
The three key inputs, Overall applying a further 10% increase in the surrounding the assumptions and conditions claim rate, claim liability rate and average average loss would increase the total provision upon which the estimates are based.
loss, are very sensitive to any change in trends.
required by 0.6 million, lower than in previous years owing to the reduced number of claims.
The directors consider that the following Claim rate the number of claims received estimates and judgements are likely to have compared to the number of surveys performed.
Accounting for acquisitions the most significant effect on the amounts The Group accounts for all business During 2015 the number of claims received recognised in the Groups consolidated combinations under the purchase method.
continued to decline and were lower than financial statements.
Under the purchase method, the identifiable expected and the claim rate declined for the assets acquired and liabilities and contingent Professional indemnity provisions first time.
Nevertheless, 84% of the claims liabilities assumed are measured at their fair When evaluating the impact of potential received were for surveys over six years old.
value at the acquisition date.
Judgements liabilities arising from claims against the Group, While there is very little experience relating and estimates are made in respect of the the Group takes legal and professional advice to old claims on which to base any future model measurement of the fair values of assets to assist it in arriving at its estimation of the our experience in the second half of2015 andliabilities acquired and consideration liability taking into account the probability of was favourable and we do not foresee any transferred.
Where necessary, the Group the success of any claims and also the likely reason to increase our rates.
There is a engages external valuation experts to development of claims based on recent trends.
possible risk that a significant rise in mortgage adviseon fair value estimates, or otherwise interest rates could lead to an increase in The Group has made provision for claims performs estimates internally.
repossessions and potential losses being received under its professional indemnity incurred by the lenders.
However, since there Impairment of goodwill and insurance arrangements.
The provision areno macro-economic indicators that this indefinitelived intangible assets canbe broken down to three categories: isa reasonable likelihood in the short term, Determining whether goodwill and indefinite Reserves for known claims: These losses the directors do not consider it appropriate lived intangible assets are impaired requires are recommended by our professional claims to provide for additional claims due to an estimation of the value in use of the cash handlers and approved panel law firms macro-economic changes.
It should be noted generating units to which the assets have who take into account all the information that a 5% increase in the claim rate which been allocated.
Calculating the cash flows available on the claims and recorded on isapplied to all surveys performed between requires the use of judgements and estimates our insurance bordereaux.
Where there is 2004 and 2008 could leadto a 3million that have been included in our strategic insufficient information on which to assess increase in the provision for futureclaims.
plans and long range forecasts.
In addition, the potential losses, initial reserves may be judgement is required to estimate the Claim liability rate the number of claims set at an initial level to cover investigative appropriate interest rate to be used to closed with a loss compared to the number costs or nil.
Further provisions are also made discount the future cash flows.
The data of closed claims.
for specific large claims which may be subject necessary for the execution of the impairment to litigation and the directors assess the We achieved a significant number of successes tests are based on management estimates level of these provisions based on legal closing many cases in 2015, several without offuture cash flows, which require estimating advice and the likelihood of success.
The liability rate increased during the revenue growth rates and profit margins.
year as those claims remaining in the system Further details of impairment reviews are Provision for the losses on known claims are more likely to suffer a loss.
However setout in note 14. to increase: It can take one to two years since the volume of claims is much smaller, for claims to develop after they are initially Exceptional items the impact of this increase was not material.
For this reason, Certain items are presented separately in the theGroup creates a provision based The liability rate is sensitive to changes in income statement as exceptional where, in onhistorical loss rates for closed claims experience and therefore we have used the the judgement of the directors, they need and average losses for closed claims.
average liability rate for claims closed over tobe disclosed separately by virtue of their two years as the most appropriate claim liability nature, size or incidence in order to obtain Provision for incurred but not reported rate to estimate the provision for those claims aclear and consistent presentation of the IBNR : The Group also provides for future already received.
As the number of open claims Groups underlying business performance.
liabilities arising from claims IBNR for at the end of the year and unreported claims Further details of material, non-recurring mortgage valuation reports and home buyer anticipated is much lower than in previous items the directors have disclosed as reports performed by Surveying Services.
years, a 10% increase in the average liability exceptional items, including the strategic This provision is estimated on a future rate would impact the provision by 0.5 million.
costs of restructuring the business, are projection of historical data for all claims provided in note 10. received based on the number of surveys Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 87 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued The Business to Business B2B BU led The Executive Committee assesses the 4.
Segmental reporting byPaul Creffield brings together all our performance of the operating segments Management has determined the operating lines of business which are delivered to based on a measure of adjusted EBITDA.
segments based on the operating reports corporate clients.
These include: Surveying This measurement basis excludes the effects reviewed by the Executive Committee replacing Services which now includes Hamptons of exceptional items, share-based payment the Governance and Performance Committee Valuations: Conveyancing Services: Estate charges and related National Insurance that are used to assess both performance and Asset Management taken from the contributions, contingent consideration and and strategic decisions.
Management has Lettings and Estate Agency divisions: income from joint ventures.
Finance income identified that the Executive Committee Countrywide Residential Development and costs are not allocated to the segments, isthechief operating decision maker Solutions business CWRDS comprising as this type of activity is driven by the central inaccordance with the requirements the former Countrywide Land & New Homes treasury activities as part of managing the ofIFRS8 Operating segments.
and Hamptons Residential Development cash position of the Group.
As part of the Groups Building our Future &Investment businesses from Estate Agency The revenue from external parties reported strategy, the Groups businesses have been and Hamptons: Property Auctions from to the Executive Committee is measured reorganised around customer groups and Estate Agency: and Lambert Smith Hampton.
inamanner consistent with that in the geography and the Executive Committee Conveyancing, Countrywide Residential income statement.
considers the business to be split into four Development Solutions, Asset Management main types of business generating revenue: and Property Auctions all use the branch Revenue and other income from external Retail, London, Financial Services and Business network to deliver products and services customers arising from activities in the UK to Business B2B, and all other segments on behalf of our clients, therefore revenue was 732,099,000 2014: 701,710,000 comprising central head office functions.
is paid across to the other BUs.
and that arising from activities overseas was 1,637,000 2014: 491,000.
There are therefore differences from the The segmental analysis opposite therefore lastannual financial statements in the basis includes a restatement of the 2014 results The assets and liabilities for each of segmentation and the related basis of under the revised reporting structure.
operatingsegment represent those assets measurement of segment profit or loss.
Full and liabilities arising directly from the The Retail network combines estate agency details of the restructuring of the reportable operating activities of each division.
Estate agency business segments undertaken inthe second assets and liabilities and liabilities arising generates commission earned on sales half of 2015, and the resultant impact on from the term loan and revolving credit ofresidential and commercial property income and EBITDA including comparative facility are not allocated to operating andLettings earns fees from the letting data, were released in January 2016 segments, but allocated in full to all other andmanagement of residential properties andare available on our website at segments within the segmental analysis.
and fees for the management of leasehold www.
co. uk investor-relations Non-current assets attributable to the UK properties.
The London division revenue is  as Summary of of830,828,000 2014: 766,956,000 earned from both estate agency commissions segment changes.
areincluded in the total assets in the tables and lettings and management fees.
The on the following pages.
Non-current assets The branch network now combines estate Financial Services division receives commission of939,000 2014: 18,000 are attributable agency and lettings operations, enabling from the sale of insurance policies, mortgages to the overseas operations.
The equity management to focus on delivering and related products under contracts with investment in joint venture is disclosed within excellent service to our retail customers.
Business to all othersegments and is 2,305,000 The network has been segregated Business services comprise all lines of 2014:3,219,000. between London and the regions Retail.
business which are delivered to corporate clients, including surveying services, The available-for-sale financial assets The London business unit BU led by conveyancing services and revenue from aredisclosed within all other segments Graham Bell comprises branches in and Lambert Smith Hampton.
Surveying services 52,072,000 2014: 30,957,000 and around London and the entire Hamptons generates surveying and valuation fees Retail 5,688,000 2014: 2,333,000. International network of branches.
which are received primarily under contracts The Retail BU led by Samantha Tyrer with financial institutions with some survey comprises all other branches across fees being earned from home buyers.
Conveyancing services generates revenue from conveyancing work undertaken from The Financial Services BU led by Peter customers buying or selling houses through Curran remains unchanged except to our network.
Lambert Smith Hamptons reflect enhanced conveyancing revenue revenue is earned from commercial property from customers introduced by the consultancy and advisory services, property consultant network.
Other income generated by head office functions, relates primarily to sub-let rental income or other sundry fees.
88 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 4.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 89 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Other income 2015 2014 000 000 Rent receivable 999 1,569 Dividend income on available-for-sale financial assets 325 1,395 Other operating income 13,713 14,143 15,037 17,107 Other operating income comprises a number of items, but principally relates to income arising from client accounting taxation services andcommission earned on energy performance certification.
Employees and directors a Employee costs for the Group during the year 2015 2014 000 000 Wages and salaries 360,374 336,799 Contingent consideration deemed remuneration note 29 8,947 Share options granted to directors and employees note 27 3,372 12,860 Defined contribution pension cost note 25 6,687 5,637 Defined benefit scheme costs 193 105 Social security costs 39,010 37,393 418,583 392,794 Average monthly number of people including executive directors employed: 2015 2014 By business segment Number Number Retail 4,734 4,791 London 2,014 1,886 Financial Services 968 998 B2B 2,613 2,451 Head office 219 203 10,548 10,329 b Key management compensation The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Executive Committee including the executive directors.
2015 2014 000 000 Wages and salaries 3,490 4,032 Short term non-monetary benefits 46 52 Share-based payments 1,605 9,427 Post-employment benefits 114 134 Termination costs 903 6,158 13,645 90 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 7.
Other operating costs 2015 2014 000 000 Rent 27,894 27,320 Advertising and marketing expenditure 19,932 19,698 Vehicles, plant and equipment hire 17,680 17,536 Other motoring costs 14,205 13,293 Repairs and maintenance 7,839 7,081 Trade receivables impairment 607 1,181 Profit on disposal of business 2,133 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 237 Profit on revaluation of investment property 400 218 Other 127,997 119,013 Total operating costs 215,517 202,771 Services provided by the Companys auditor and network firms During the year the Company including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor at costs asdetailed below: 2015 2014 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 135 135 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 471 421 audit-related assurance services 44 44 non-audit services 11 20 tax advisory services 9 60 s ervices relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into on behalf of the Company 97 670 777 8.
Finance costs 2015 2014 000 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on borrowings 2 141 Interest payable on revolving credit facility and previously term loan 4,573 3,424 Interest arising from finance leases 665 581 Other interest paid 114 42 Cash payable interest 5,354 4,188 Amortisation of loan facility fee 868 1,160 Net interest costs arising on the pension scheme note 25 154 158 Other finance costs 78 Non-cash payable interest 1,022 1,396 Finance costs 6,376 5,584 9.
Finance income 2015 2014 000 000 Interest income 321 285 Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 91 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Exceptional items The following items have been included in arriving at profit before taxation: 2015 2014 000 000 Exceptional income Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 14,564 Deferred income amortisation arising from fair valuation of Zoopla shares crystallised upon the merger in May 2012 2,534 2,534 2,534 17,098 Exceptional costs Strategic and restructuring costs Redundancy costs 3,289 Recruitment costs 478 Consultancy costs 3,288 Profit on sale of leasehold property 836 Property closure costs 1,211 Impairment of brands 6,126 Other strategy-related costs 669 Total strategic and restructuring costs 14,225 Regulatory settlement costs including legal fees 826 Insurance claims and litigations 15,241 Acquisition expenses 1,082 Total exceptional costs 16,133 15,241 Net exceptional costs income 13,599 1,857 2015 Exceptional income During 2015 there has been continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to Zoopla Property Group plc warrants which cease unwind at 31 December 2015 see note 17 c. Exceptional costs Strategic and restructuring costs During the year the Group has undertaken the Building our Future strategic review and incurred a number of exceptional, non-recurring costs in relation to the project and related restructuring costs.
The principal elements are: Following an initial period of organisational design work, a number of redundancies were made throughout the year as the leadership structure evolved to meet the future needs of the Group.
All redundancy costs directly related to this strategic review have been collated and amounted to 3,289,000.
This included the costs of redundancies which were communicated to the individuals prior to 31 December 2015, andsettlements agreed, but whose employment ceases during 2016.
The organisational redesign also resulted in the creation of a number of posts created to meet the revised needs of the Group.
As a result, recruitment costs of 478,000 were incurred during the year.
As part of the strategic review, external agencies have been involved where specialists skills have been required.
Consultancy costs of 3,288,000 have been incurred in relation to a number of projects that include: strategic support and change management: IT transformation: organisational redesign: talent development and leadership skills training: and internal communication in support of specific strategic objectives identified.
The Group decided to rationalise its property footprint in London to integrate the London and B2B teams into our existing commercial and corporate rented property in Oxford Street.
As a result, the Group sold its existing leasehold premises in Grosvenor Square generating a profit on sale of 836,000 net of legal costs.
Offsetting this profit are costs in relation to exiting additional space in London that was surplus to requirements.
As a result, costs of 1,211,000 were incurred in relation to dilapidations costs, onerous lease provisions and the rental costs of the additional Oxford Street space during the three-month period of refurbishment and relocation when costs were also being incurred in the original sites.
Following the reorganisation of business units, a review of brands was undertaken and as a result of this rationalisation of intended future brand use an impairment of 6,126,000 was identified note 14.
Other costs directly related to the strategic review were collated, and whilst individually immaterial, these aggregate to a total cost of 669,000 and principally relate to the costs of strategic sessions and leadership training.
Regulatory settlement costs On 19 March 2015, the Competition and Markets Authority CMA concluded its investigation into an association of estate and lettings agents in Hampshire.
Hamptons Estates Limited was one of three parties forming part of an association that admitted arrangements which had the object of reducing competitive pressure on estate agents and lettings agents fees in the local area in and around Fleet in Hampshire in a period prior to the Groups ownership.
The exceptional cost above reflects the penalty payable to the CMA and associated legal costs.
Acquisition expenses The Group incurred acquisition expenses of 1,082,000 across a number of transactions undertaken during the year note 29.
92 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 10.
Exceptional items continued 2014 Exceptional income During 2014 there was continued amortisation of the deferred income in relation to Zoopla warrants which continue to unwind over the period to 31 December 2015.
In addition, the Group disposed of a significant proportion of its shareholding in Zoopla Property Group plc as part of the IPO process in June 2014 and the associated profit is disclosed above.
Exceptional costs As part of the year-end process in 2014, the Group performed a detailed review of the latest data and trends on professional indemnity PI costs and believed that it was prudent to increase the provision for PI claims accordingly.
The key elements behind this charge were an unexpected level of claims brought about under common law outside of the primary statutory limitation period, rather than under contract law, together with a slight deterioration of claims previously notified and an increase in the average loss per claim.
Further information can befound in note 3 Critical accounting judgements.
Taxation Analysis of charge in year 2015 2014 000 000 Current tax on profits for the year 8,543 17,241 Adjustments in respect of prior years 82 701 Total current tax 8,461 16,540 Deferred tax on profits for the year Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,196 3,747 Impact of change in tax rate 3,483 1,219 Adjustments in respect of prior years 232 138 Total deferred tax note 24 2,519 4,828 Income tax charge 5,942 11,712 2015 2014 000 000 Tax on items charged to equity Deferred tax adjustment arising on share-based payments 767 369 Tax on items charged credited to other comprehensive income Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 650 507 The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014: 21.49%.
The differences are explained below: 2015 2014 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 47,710 79,648 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20.25% 2014: 21.49% 9,661 17,116 Effects of: Profits from joint venture 185 175 Other expenses not deductible 1,892 1,459 Permanent difference relating to depreciation not deductible 907 231 Tax relief on purchased goodwill 152 302 Tax relief on share-based payments charged to equity 1,715 Rate change on deferred tax provision 3,510 1,219 Income not subject to tax due to availability of unprovided losses 1,128 4,850 Adjustments in respect of prior years 314 563 Overseas losses 116 15 Total taxation charge 5,942 11,712 The changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies announced in the Summer 2015 Budget were substantively enacted for financial reporting purposes in Finance No 2 Act 2015 on 18 November 2015.
The main rate of corporation tax will reduce to 19% from 1April 2017 and will reduce to 18% from 1 April 2020.
The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured using rates applicable to when the balances are expected to unwind.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 93 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Dividends 2015 2014 000 000 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 10.0 pence net per share 2013: 6.0 pence net per share 21,963 13,167 interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of 5.0 pence net per share 2014: 5.0 pence net per share 10,981 10,972 special dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 of nil pence net per share 2014: 9.0 pence net per share 19,750 Total 32,944 43,889 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 of 10.0 pence net per share, amounting to an estimated total dividend of22.0 million, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 27 April 2016.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number ofordinary shares of Countrywide plc.
2015 2014 000 000 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 41,351 67,477 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,447,386 218,811,538 Basic earnings per share in pence per share 18.93p 30.84p For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all dilutive potential ordinary shares arising from share options.
2015 2014 000 000 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 41,351 67,477 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 218,447,386 218,811,538 Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable share options 1,264,900 6,047,243 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 219,712,286 224,858,781 Diluted earnings per share in pence per share 18.82p 30.01p Adjusted earnings Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 41,351 67,477 Adjusted for the following items, net of taxation: Amortisation arising on intangibles recognised through business combinations 4,542 5,990 Contingent consideration 8,947 Share-based payments charge 3,628 11,933 Exceptional income 2,534 17,098 Exceptional costs 14,309 11,966 Adjusted earnings, net of taxation 70,243 80,268 Adjusted basic earnings per share in pence per share 32.16p 36.68p Adjusted diluted earnings per share in pence per share 31.97p 35.70p 94 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 14.
Intangible assets a Goodwill 2015 2014 000 000 Cost At 1 January 835,852 797,190 Arising on acquisitions note 29 53,130 38,726 Disposals 64 At 31 December 888,982 835,852 Accumulated impairment note 14 c At 1 January 417,356 417,356 Charge for the year At 31 December 417,356 417,356 Net book amount At 31 December 471,626 418,496 b Other intangible assets 2015 Customer Computer Brand contracts and Other software names relationships Pipeline intangibles Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 396,904 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 3 4,446 15,287 534 20,270 Additions 5,431 5,431 Disposals 15,521 15,521 At 31 December 52,661 223,185 125,545 5,693 407,084 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 159,908 Charge for the year 5,936 10,710 468 17,114 Impairment note 14 6,126 6,126 On disposals 15,521 15,521 At 31 December 38,730 39,970 83,300 5,627 167,627 Net book amount At 31 December 13,931 183,215 42,245 66 239,457 Computer software includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2015 2014 000 000 Cost capitalised finance lease 6,381 6,381 Accumulated depreciation 1,808 532 Net book amount 4,573 5,849 Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 95 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets continued 2014 Customer Computer Brand contracts and Other software names relationships Pipeline intangibles Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 2,727 7,850 512 11,089 Additions 6,104 6,104 Disposals 212 1,272 1,484 At 31 December 62,748 218,739 110,258 5,159 396,904 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783 Charge for the year 4,423 9,568 512 32 14,535 On disposals 191 219 410 At 31 December 48,315 33,844 72,590 5,159 159,908 Net book amount At 31 December 14,433 184,895 37,668 236,996 All amortisation and impairment charges are treated as an expense in the income statement.
Brand names are treated as having an indefinite life, as a result of the fact that the Group will continue to operate these brands into perpetuity, and are therefore subject to annual, or more frequent, impairment reviews if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
A review of brands was undertaken following the reorganisation of the business units.
Rationalisation of intended future brand use by the London business unit has resulted in an impairment charge of 6,126,000 see note 10.
All remaining brands have been reviewed with nofurther impairment identified.
The carrying amounts of various brand names owned by the Group are disclosed below.
2015 2014 000 000 Brand names Bairstow Eves 17,173 17,173 John D Wood 14,464 14,464 Mann & Co 5,462 9,418 Slater Hogg & Howison 9,709 9,709 Taylors Estate Agents 10,071 10,071 Hamptons International 58,774 58,774 Blundell Property Services 6,494 6,494 Lambert Smith Hampton 28,377 28,377 150,524 154,480 Other brands 32,691 30,415 Net book value 183,215 184,895 96 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 14.
Intangible assets continued c Impairment The reorganisation of the Group into four new business units has led to a change in the composition of the Groups cash generating units CGUs, which represent the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows from other groups of assets.
In accordance with internal management structures, the new CGUs comprise Retail, London and Financial Services, with the B2B business unit being split further into Professional Services, Countrywide Residential Development Solutions and Commercial.
Management monitors goodwill and intangible assets at this CGU level.
In many cases, the operations of the acquired businesses have been fully integrated with the existing businesses and therefore it is not possible to identify separately the economic flows from those businesses.
Where necessary, assets have therefore been reallocated to the new CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill or intangible asset arose as follows: B2B CGUs Countrywide Residential Financial Professional Development Retail London Services Services Solutions Commercial Total 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 168,650 71,960 87,888 132,890 775 9,463 471,626 Indefinite life intangibleassets 68,054 86,784 28,377 183,215 236,704 158,744 87,888 132,890 775 37,840 654,841 B2B CGUs Countrywide Residential Financial Professional Development Retail London Services Services Solutions Commercial Total 2014 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 137,861 55,284 87,888 132,890 4,573 418,496 Indefinite life intangibleassets 68,054 88,464 28,377 184,895 205,915 143,748 87,888 132,890 32,950 603,391 Under IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the Group is required to: review its intangible assets in the event of a significant change in circumstances that would indicate potential impairment: and review and test its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually or in the event of a significant change in circumstances.
The 2015 impairment review was performed in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets by comparing the carrying amount of each CGU against its recoverable amount.
Given the structural reorganisation during 2015, the impairment review was undertaken on both the oldCGU basis and the new CGU structure.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value-in-use calculations that have been determined from cash flow projections derived from formally approved strategic budgets and forecasts covering the three-year period from 2016 to 2018 with nil growth for 2019 and 2020.
Growth rates applied within the strategic plan are based on past experience, market data and expectation of future market outlook and development.
For the purpose of the impairment review, to evaluate the recoverable amount of each division, a terminal value has been assumed from the fifth year and includes a growth rate in the cash flows of 0% into perpetuity.
The discount rate used is based on the Groupsestimated cost of capital.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based comprise: 3% growth in UK housing volumes in 2016, 2% growth in 2017 and 2018, and 0% growth assumed for subsequent periods: a pre-tax discount rate of 9%: and the benefits of past restructuring changes which have been taken into account where there is appropriate certainty over cost reductions.
The 2015 goodwill impairment review concluded that the recoverable amount for each CGU to which goodwill is allocated exceeded the carrying value of each CGU under both the old and the new CGU structures, resulting in no indication of impairment 2014: Nil.
A similar impairment review of indefinite life intangible assets identified an impairment of 6.1 million 2014: Nil against brands as a direct result ofthe decision to rationalise intended future brand use within the London business unit following the strategic review and resultant reorganisation ofthe Group see note 10.
The strategic review concluded that certain London brands will be abandoned, with the existing businesses rebranded to other London brand names held by the Group.
The impairment review did not identify any further impairment of CGUs containing indefinite life intangible assets.
The 2014 impairment review was based on cash flows from the five-year approved strategic plan for the period from 2015 to 2019, with a terminal value from the fifth year and a growth rate of 0% into perpetuity.
The discount rate used for the 2014 impairment review was 8%.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 97 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued c Impairment continued Cumulative impairments, including the brand impairment identified during the current year combined with previous impairments resulting from the severe financial crisis that originated in 2008, amount to the following: Brand Computer Goodwill names software Total 000 000 000 000 Cash generating unit Retail 217,319 33,844 251,163 London 45,961 6,126 52,087 Financial Services 114,076 114,076 B2B Professional Services 40,000 10,500 50,500 B2B Countrywide Residential Development Solutions B2B Commercial 417,356 39,970 10,500 467,826 Sensitivity analysis Management has undertaken sensitivity analyses to determine the effect of changes in assumptions on the outcome of the 2015 impairment reviews.
The key assumptions driving the value-in-use calculations are the discrete growth rates underpinning the cash flow forecasts for each CGU across the Group, including housing market volumes, financial services transaction volumes and the effects of strategic acquisitions within each CGU.
Management considered various scenarios which concluded that appropriate headroom existed between the recoverable values and the carrying values of each CGU.
In line with the sensitivity analysis undertaken in 2014, an aggressive scenario was also modelled to determine the impact of applying nil growth rates in 2016 and beyond across all CGUs, but keeping all other cash flows such as capital investment in line with the strategic plan.
This scenario resulted in goodwill allocated to the Retail CGU being impaired by 91 million.
Management does not consider this impairment scenario to be likely: mitigating actions are available should the Group experience a market downturn.
A similar sensitivity analysis conducted at the end of 2014, with nil growth in housing transaction volumes in 2015 and beyond, identified that goodwill allocated to the B2B Professional Services CGU would be impaired by 37 million largely as a result of increased professional indemnity liabilities.
Management did not consider that impairment scenario to be a likely outcome due to the CGU having secured additional contracts and having plans in place for improved growth and efficiencies.
Sensitivity analysis has also been undertaken in respect of the discount rate applied within the value-in-use calculations.
Significant headroom remained when different discount rates were applied, resulting in no identification of potential impairment.
Depreciation commences when the asset enters operational use and the asset is transferred to the operational asset category.
98 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2014 Furniture Assets in the Land and Leasehold Motor and course of buildings improvements vehicles equipment construction Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 86,418 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 29 22 372 394 Additions at cost 4,280 262 13,835 5,529 23,906 Disposals 99 524 150 1,304 2,077 At 31 December 2,093 32,537 578 67,904 5,529 108,641 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 341 16,767 14 37,823 54,945 Charge for the year 23 2,594 122 7,085 9,824 Disposals 24 429 79 1,119 1,651 At 31 December 340 18,932 57 43,789 63,118 Net book amount At 31 December 1,753 13,605 521 24,115 5,529 45,523 Furniture and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of computer hardware where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2015 2014 000 000 Cost capitalised finance lease 9,683 12,062 Accumulated depreciation 5,404 1,829 Net book amount 4,279 10,233 The Group leases various assets, principally computer hardware and related costs, under finance lease agreements whose terms are between three and eight years.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred, relating to 2015 and the three subsequent years, isas follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 4,437 3,688 16.
Investment property 000 At 1 January 2015 13,235 Capital expenditure 171 Change in fair value of investment property 400 Transfer to available-for-sale assets see note 17 c 13,806 At 31 December 2015 Investment property acquired, which is property held to earn rentals or capital appreciation, is stated at its fair value.
Gains arising from changes in the fair value of investment property are included in profits for the year to which they relate.
On 23 October 2014, the investment property was transferred into a separate, unlisted, residential property fund, Albion PRS Investments Unit Trust, now renamed Vista UK Residential RealEstate Unit Trust.
In exchange, the Group received units inthe property fund.
The full independent fund structure, effectively removing any exercise of control to an independent trustee, was not inoperation at the 2014 year end.
As a result, the assets were consolidated and reflected directly within investment property.
However, this asset holding was transferred to available-for-sale financial assets on completion ofthe independent fund structure and loss of control of the structure in May 2015.
The fair value of the investment property at 31 December 2014 was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by CBRE Limited, independent valuers not connected with the Group.
The valuation conforms to International Valuation Standards.
The fair value was determined based on comparable market transactions on arms length terms and was based on the Market Rent valuation technique.
The fair value hierarchy of the investment property has been deemed to be Level 2.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 99 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Investments a Principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertakings, most of which are incorporated in Great Britain, and whose operations are conducted in the United Kingdom.
Principal subsidiary undertakings ofthe Group at 31 December 2015 are presented below: Proportion of Proportion of ordinary shares ordinary shares held by held by Country of parent the Group Subsidiary Nature of business incorporation % % Countrywide Group plc Holding company UK 100 Balanus Limited Holding company UK 100 Retail Countrywide Estate Agents Estate Agency and Lettings UK 100 London Hamptons Group Limited Holding company UK 100 Hamptons Estates Limited Estate Agency and Lettings Hong Kong 100 B2B Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Property consultancy UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Limited N Ireland Property consultancy UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Ireland Property consultancy Ireland 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited Property consultancy UK 100 Countrywide Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK 100 United Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK 100 Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited Conveyancing Services UK 100 TitleAbsolute Limited Conveyancing Services UK 100 Financial Services Countrywide Principal Services Limited Financial Services UK 100 Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited Financial Services UK 100 Mortgage Intelligence Limited Financial Services UK 100 Mortgage Next Limited Financial Services UK 100 Capital Private Finance Limited Financial Services UK 51 Life and Easy Limited Financial Services UK 100 A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2015 is included within the Appendix.
The appendix on pages 128 to 130 forms part of these financial statements.
Following the liquidation of Countrywide Social Housing Limited during 2015, summary financial information for the remaining subsidiary that has non-controlling interests is presented below: Capital Private Finance Limited 2015 2014 000 000 Current assets 138 470 Non-current assets 3 5 Current liabilities 228 209 Non-current liabilities 89 103 Net liabilities assets 176 163 Revenues 1,961 1,889 Net profit 716 490 Dividends paid 670 435 There is no other comprehensive income arising in the above subsidiary in either year.
100 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 17.
Investments continued b Interests in joint venture TM Group UK Limited At 31 December 2015 the Group had a 33% 2014: 33% interest in the ordinary share capital of TM Group UK Limited TMG, a UK company.
TMG has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and is a private company with no quoted market price available for its shares.
TMG is one of the largest companies in the provision of searches to the property companies sector measured by completed searches.
It delivers arange of property searches and data to land and property professionals in the UK, arranges for property searches directly with specific suppliers on behalf of its own customers, and has also started to supply IT applications and products to UK mortgage lenders.
There are no outstanding commitments or contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint venture.
During the year, TMG was a joint venture company.
2015 2014 000 000 At 1 January: net assets excluding goodwill 1,739 1,433 goodwill 1,480 1,480 3,219 2,913 Dividend received 507 Share of losses profits retained 914 813 At 31 December: net assets excluding goodwill 825 1,739 goodwill 1,480 1,480 2,305 3,219 The summarised financial information of TM Group UK Limited, which is accounted for using the equity method, is presented below: 2015 2014 000 000 Cash and equivalents 7,465 5,715 Other current assets excluding cash 2,149 2,474 Total current assets 9,614 8,189 Non-current assets 806 712 Current liabilities 7,946 3,684 Net assets 2,474 5,217 Net assets adjusted for the percentage of ownership 825 1,739 Income 61,447 59,283 Depreciation 284 166 Expenses excluding depreciation 63,957 56,726 Interest income 52 48 Post-tax results 2,742 2,439 Share of post-tax results 914 813 There is no other comprehensive income arising in the joint venture in either year.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 101 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Investments continued c Available-for-sale financial assets 2015 2014 000 000 At 1 January 33,290 42,877 Transferred from investment property see note 16 13,806 Zoopla shares purchased for cash 2,090 2,090 Zoopla shares acquired on crystallisation of warrants 2,835 Disposal of Zoopla shares 383 17,786 Acquisition of shares in unlisted equity and debentures 348 96 Increase in fair value through income statement on the date of purchase 802 Movement in fair value 7,836 3,200 Amortisation 29 22 At 31 December 57,760 33,290 Available-for-sale financial assets, which are all Sterling denominated, include the following: 2015 2014 000 000 Listed equity securities: Zoopla Property Group plc 42,856 33,165 Unlisted residential property fund units 14,455 Unlisted equity 353 60 Wimbledon debentures acquired and amortised over the life of the debenture 96 65 At 31 December 57,760 33,290 In May 2012, Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group and as a result crystallised some warrants into shares which were due under an arms length commercial agreement.
The fair value of these shares was assessed based on the most recent price paid for shares.
As a result of acquiring the additional shares for a nominal price and the fact that these shares were issued to the Group as part of the commercial agreement signed in 2010 to list the Groups properties for sale and rent on the Zoopla website, the excess in the assessed fair value of these shares on initial recognition over the nominal cost has been treated as deferred income and is being released over the period of the contract ended in 2015.
The amount released to the income statement is disclosed in note 10 and the amount held on the balance sheet as deferred income isidentified in note 22.
In June 2014, Zoopla plc listed on the London Stock Exchange and as a result crystallised some additional warrants into shares which were due under a further commercial agreement signed in 2014 to extend the listing period on the Zoopla website.
The excess in the assessed fairvalue of these shares on initial recognition, over the nominal cost, has been treated as deferred income 2,835,000 and will be released over the three-year period of the contract from 2016 to 2018 see note 22.
There was a transfer of investment property into available-for-sale financial assets during the year arising from the loss of control of the investment property fund as planned see note 16.
There was a change in valuation technique from that applied at 31 December 2014 and whilst the fair value of the investment within the investment property fund has remained at Level 2, this is now based on receipt of a net asset valuation statement from the trustees on a quarterly basis.
Trade and other receivables 2015 2014 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables not past due 51,361 42,512 Trade receivables past due but not impaired 29,400 22,818 Trade receivables past due but impaired 3,124 4,165 Trade receivables 83,885 69,495 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 3,124 4,165 Trade receivables net 80,761 65,330 Amounts due from customers for contract work 2,241 1,251 Other receivables 19,413 14,243 Prepayments and accrued income 21,017 17,820 123,432 98,644 Trade and other receivables are all current and any fair value difference is not material.
Trade receivables are considered past due once they have passed their contracted due date.
Significant trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due.
All trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due beyond 90 days for individual customers or 180 days for commercial contracts.
Further information in respect of financial assets, including credit risk, is provided in note 34.
102 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 18.
Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 December 2015, trade receivables of 29,400,000 2014: 22,818,000 were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Less than 3 months 18,417 15,647 Over 3 months 10,983 7,171 29,400 22,818 Trade and other receivables are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of 728,000 2014: 252,000 which are receivable inHong Kong Dollars and Euros.
A summary of the movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below: 2015 2014 000 000 At 1 January 4,165 3,848 Additional provisions note 7 607 1,181 Amounts utilised 1,648 864 At 31 December 3,124 4,165 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 21,246 16,578 Short term bank deposits 3,090 12,005 24,336 28,583 Of the short term bank deposits, a number were interest bearing within the following range: 2015: 0.5%0.55% 2014: 0.5%0.55%.
The following amounts were held in foreign currencies: 2015 2014 000 000 Hong Kong Dollars 126 134 Euros 325 Barbadian Dollars 121 451 255 20.
Trade and other payables 2015 2014 000 000 Trade payables 13,261 13,875 Other financial liabilities 2,700 2,560 Deferred consideration 7,987 5,103 23,948 21,538 Other tax and social security payable 31,577 26,988 Accruals and other payables 77,687 65,130 133,212 113,656 Trade and other payables due within one year 128,503 109,312 Trade and other payables due after one year 4,709 4,344 133,212 113,656 The principal components of trade and other payables due after one year are payments of 3,099,000 due under bonus awards 2014: 1,171,000 and accrued National Insurance share-based payment charges of 1,610,000 2014: 613,000.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 103 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Trade and other payables continued At 31 December 2015, other financial liabilities include put options of 2,700,000 2014: 2,560,000 to acquire the non-controlling interests in an entity acquired in 2011 see note 17 a.
These financial liabilities are held at the present value of the expected redemption amount, which is based on managements expectation of performance, consistent with operating plans approved.
These options are exercisable as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Exercisable in 2016 2,700 2,560 The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities.
Financial liabilities are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of 419,000 2014: 135,000.
Borrowings 2015 2014 000 000 Non-current Bank borrowings 80,000 Other loans 1,000 1,000 Capitalised banking fees 1,872 1,613 Finance lease liabilities 5,458 7,563 4,586 86,950 Current Bank borrowings 200,000 40,000 Finance lease liabilities 4,662 4,760 204,662 44,760 Total borrowings 209,248 131,710 Analysis of net debt At At 1 January Non-cash 31 December 2015 Cash flow changes 2015 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 4,247 24,336 Capitalised banking fees 1,613 1,127 868 1,872 Loan notes 1,000 1,000 Term loan due after one year 80,000 80,000 Term loan due within one year 20,000 20,000 Revolving credit facility due within one year 20,000 180,000 200,000 Finance leases due after one year 7,563 2,105 5,458 Finance leases due within one year 4,760 5,363 5,265 4,662 Total 103,127 77,757 4,028 184,912 Borrowings and other loans On 6 February 2015 the Company entered into an Amendment and Restatement Agreement relating to the term and revolving credit facility agreement, originally dated 20 March 2013, which is due to expire in March 2018.
The facility is now a 250 million revolving credit facility RCF, with no term loan elements, with any outstanding balance repayable in full on 20 March 2018.
Interest is currently payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 1.75%.
The margin is linked to the leverage ratio of the Group and the margin rate is reviewed twice a year and can vary between 1.5% and 2.25%.
The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge and leverage covenants and 80 million was drawn down during the period.
The unsecured loan notes are non-interest bearing, repayable in 2029, and arose on the purchase of Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited.
104 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 21.
Borrowings continued Finance lease liabilities Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: 2015 2014 000 000 No later than one year 5,026 5,087 Later than one year and no later than five years 5,795 8,444 10,821 13,531 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 701 1,208 Present value of finance lease liabilities 10,120 12,323 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 No later than one year 4,662 4,760 Later than one year and no later than five years 5,458 7,563 10,120 12,323 22.
Deferred income Deferred income will unwind as follows: 2015 2014 Cash Non-cash Total Total 000 000 000 000 Within one year 3,166 945 4,111 5,708 After one year: Between one and two years 3,077 945 4,022 4,021 Between two and three years 945 945 1,995 Between three and four years 945 3,077 1,890 4,967 6,961 6,243 2,835 9,078 12,669 The Group recognises deferred income as a result of cash received in advance in relation to certain sales distribution contracts and lease incentives relating to the Groups operating leases.
The cash received is amortised over the life of the contracts to which they relate.
Non-cash proportion of deferred income relates to unamortised income portion created on acquisition of shares in Zoopla Property Group plc.
This deferred income is being amortised over the period of the commercial agreements which gave rise to these assets refer to notes 10 and 17.
Provisions continued 2014 Onerous Property Claimsand contracts repairs Clawback litigation Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 1,943 4,276 2,857 32,909 3,130 45,115 Acquired in acquisition note 29 202 75 277 Utilised in the year 863 910 5,685 14,425 863 22,746 Charged to income statement 18 302 6,252 18,227 24,799 Unwind of discount rate 47 47 At 31 December 1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492 Due within one year or less 423 2,021 2,444 16,889 258 22,035 Due after more than one year 722 1,849 980 19,897 2,009 25,457 1,145 3,870 3,424 36,786 2,267 47,492 The provision for onerous contracts relates to property leases and represents the estimated unavoidable costs of leasehold properties which have become surplus to the Groups requirements following the closure or relocation of operations.
The provision is based on the present value of rentals and other unavoidable costs payable during the remaining lease period after taking into account rents receivable or expected to be receivable from sub-lessees, typically over a five-year period.
Provisions are released when properties are assigned or sub-let.
The provision for property repairs represents estimates of the cost to repair existing dilapidations under leasehold covenants, in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
The average unexpired lease length of properties against which a provision has been made is two years.
Clawback represents the provision required to meet the estimated cost of repaying indemnity commission income received on life assurance policies that may lapse in the two years following issue.
Claims and litigation provisions comprise the amounts set aside to meet claims by customers below the level of any PI insurance excess, the estimation of IBNR claims and any amounts that might be payable as a result of any legal disputes.
The provisions represent the directors best estimate of the Groups liability having taken professional advice.
In addition to the claims provisions recognised, the Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims IBNR for mortgage valuation reports and home buyer reports provided by the Surveying Services division.
The basis for calculating this provision is outlined further in note3.
While there are many factors which determine the settlement date of any claims, the expected cash flows are estimated based on the average length of time it takes to settle claims in the past, which is around two years.
Other provisions mainly comprise items relating to operational reorganisation including some business closure costs and some IT transition expenses which are expected to be utilised over the next three years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 18%20% 2014: 20%.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 2015 2014 000 000 Deferred tax liability at 1 January 28,643 31,507 Credited to income statement 2,519 4,828 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary note 29 2,483 2,089 Disposed on disposal of subsidiary 13 Charged credited to other comprehensive income 650 507 Charged to equity 767 369 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 30,024 28,643 Deferred tax asset 10,645 16,215 Deferred tax liability 40,669 44,858 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 30,024 28,643 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 43 1,694 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 10,602 14,521 10,645 16,215 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year 1,826 1,600 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year 38,843 43,258 40,669 44,858 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits.
106 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 24.
Deferred tax continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
2015 Charged Charged to other Asset credited comprehensive liability to income income equity 000 000 000 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Capital allowances 6,705 787 Employee pension liabilities 83 311 650 Share-based payments 1,516 3,027 767 Trading losses 116 590 Intangible assets 39,782 6,882 Gain deferred by roll-over relief 887 Other temporary and deductible differences 2,225 600 30,024 2,767 1,417 2014 Credited to other Charged comprehensive Asset credited income charged liability to income to equity 000 000 000 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Capital allowances 7,535 1,395 Employee pension liabilities 1,043 396 507 Share-based payments 5,308 2,533 369 Trading losses 705 787 Intangible assets 43,970 4,123 Gain deferred by roll-over relief 887 Other temporary and deductible differences 1,623 750 28,643 4,828 138 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused capital losses of 19,759,000 2014: 24,375,000, in respect of non-trading loan relationships of 106,000 2014: 629,000, and in respect of trading losses of 49,000 2014: 248,000.
There is no expiry date attributable to these unrecognised deferred tax assets, but no assets have been recognised as there are currently no expectations of offsetting income streams arising, with the exception of the value noted below where an identical liability would also be recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the tax impact of the unrealised capital gain of 7,473,000 2014: 5,966,000 arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets because the unrecognised losses above would offset any future gain.
Post-employment benefits The Group offers membership of the Countrywide plc Pension Scheme the Scheme to eligible employees, the only pension arrangements operated by the Group.
The Scheme has two sections of membership: defined contribution and defined benefit.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The pensions cost for the defined contribution scheme in the year was 6,687,000 2014: 5,637,000.
Defined benefit pension arrangements In the past the Group offered a defined benefit pension arrangement: however, this was closed to new entrants in 1988 and subsequently closed to further service accrual at the end of 2003.
Members of the defined benefit arrangements earned benefits linked to final pensionable salary and service at the date of retirement or date of leaving the scheme if earlier.
The average duration of the defined benefit pension scheme is 16 years.
The defined benefit pension arrangements provide pension benefits to its members based on earnings at the date of leaving the scheme.
Pensions in payment are updated in line with the minimum of 4% or retail price index RPI inflation.
The Scheme is established and administered in the UK and ultimately overseen by the Pensions Ombudsman.
The regulatory framework requires the Group to fund the scheme every three years and for the Group to agree the valuation with the trustees.
As such, the funding arrangements were reviewed as part of the recent valuation as at 5 April 2015.
The Group is responsible for ensuring that pension arrangements are adequately funded and the directors have agreed afunding programme to bring down the deficit in the defined benefit scheme over the next three years.
During the year, the Group paid 1.9 million 2014: 1.9 million to the defined benefit scheme.
During the year which commenced on 1 January 2016, the employer isexpected to pay contributions of 1.9 million 2015: 1.9 million.
Further contributions of 1.9 million will be made in each of the next three years.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 107 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit pension arrangements continued The Groups obligations under the pension arrangements are subject to inherent estimation uncertainty.
While the trustees and actuary assess the value of the scheme assets, and the extent of the liabilities, they are obliged to make a number of assumptions, sensitivities to which are detailed later on.
Furthermore, the scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed to risks in the equities and bond markets and similarly the liabilities can fluctuate according to gilt or corporate bond rate.
The Scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the Schemes beneficiaries and they take independent advice when deliberating matters relating to the Scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme under defined pension arrangements are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method, which is an accrued benefits valuation method.
The defined benefit liabilities set out in this note have been calculated by an independent actuary based on the results of the most recent full actuarial valuation at 5 April 2015, updated to 31 December 2015.
The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are shown below.
The Group immediately recognises the actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income as shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Present value of funded obligations 47,850 50,740 Fair value of plan assets 47,435 45,524 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 415 5,216 The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: Present value of Fair value of obligation plan assets Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2015 50,740 45,524 5,216 Expected return on scheme assets 1,579 1,579 Actuarial gain 1,121 1,121 Employer contributions 1,900 1,900 Service cost 193 193 Interest cost 1,733 1,733 Actuarial gain from changes in financial assumptions 1,700 1,700 Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,029 1,029 Actuarial loss from changes in experience adjustments 602 602 Benefits paid 2,496 2,496 Expenses 193 193 At 31 December 2015 47,850 47,435 415 Present value of Fair value of obligation plan assets Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2014 43,581 39,143 4,438 Expected return on scheme assets 1,771 1,771 Actuarial gain 4,252 4,252 Employer contributions 1,900 1,900 Service cost 105 105 Interest cost 1,929 1,929 Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions 6,667 6,667 Benefits paid 1,437 1,437 Expenses 105 105 At 31 December 2014 50,740 45,524 5,216 108 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 25.
Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit pension arrangements continued The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are: 2015 2014 % % Cash 1 1 UK equities 5 5 Overseas equities 6 5 UK fixed interest gilts 11 12 Corporate bonds 46 47 Other GARS 11 10 Other insured pensioners 20 20 100 100 Insured pensioners and cash constitute unquoted investments.
All other investments are managed funds either quoted directly or comprising quoted investments.
The Group does not have any of its own transferable instruments, property occupied or other assets used held as plan assets.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 2015 2014 000 000 Current service cost 193 105 Net interest cost on pension scheme liabilities within finance costs 154 158 Total charge to the income statement 347 263 The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are: 2015 2014 000 000 Actuarial gain on scheme assets 1,121 4,252 Actuarial gain loss on scheme liabilities: Actuarial gain loss from changes in financial assumptions 1,700 6,667 Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,029 Changes due to experience adjustments 602 Other comprehensive income 3,248 2,415 Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 650 507 2,598 1,908 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income after tax 4,529 7,127 The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2015 2014 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions On benefits earned prior to 1 December 1999 4.20% 4.15% On benefits earned after 1 December 1999 3.10% 2.80% Discount rate 3.70% 3.50% RPI inflation 2.20% 2.85% CPI inflation 1.20% 1.85% Expected net return on plan assets 3.50% 3.50% Cash commutation 20% 20% Life expectancy at age 65 years Male pensioner member 22.8 22.8 Female pensioner member 24.7 25.0 Male pensioner non-member age 45 now 24.5 24.6 Female pensioner non-member age 45 now 26.6 26.9 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio isinvested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target assets allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 109 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Post-employment benefits continued Sensitivity analysis The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used.
The defined benefit obligation position revealed by IAS 19 calculations must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of the assets with a significant exposure to equities is being compared with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields.
However, the Group has taken steps to mitigate these risks of asset volatility, including insuring some of the pensioners as illustrated by the asset portfolio.
The sensitivity analyses below are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to those disclosed in the Listing Prospectus.
Defined Fair value Change from benefit obligation of assets Deficit disclosed deficit 000 000 000 000 Defined benefit obligation 47,850 47,435 415 Discount rate less 0.25% 49,594 47,660 1,934 1,519 RPI and linked assumptions plus 0.25% 48,042 47,444 598 183 Members living one year longer than assumed 49,955 47,974 1,981 1,566 Defined benefit obligation trends: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 000 000 000 000 000 Scheme assets 47,435 45,524 39,143 37,906 38,071 Scheme liabilities 47,850 50,740 43,581 44,518 44,534 Scheme deficit 415 5,216 4,438 6,612 6,463 Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 602 84 1,156 24 Gain from changes in the demographic assumptions for value ofscheme liabilities 1,029 1,015 644 Gain loss from changes in the assumptions for value of scheme liabilities 1,700 6,667 28 1,150 4,237 Experience gain loss adjustments on assets 1,121 4,252 474 513 1,660 Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits at 31 December 2015: Less than Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Undiscounted pension benefits 2,003 2,012 6,495 77,901 88,411 26.
Share capital Called up issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 1 pence each Number 000 At 1 January 2015 219,444,961 2,194 Share capital issued 196,873 2 At 31 December 2015 219,641,834 2,196 The Company acquired 1,465,000 of its own shares through purchases on the London Stock Exchange throughout January and February 2015.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was 6,773,000.
The shares were held as treasury shares with those purchased in 2014.
The Company then reissued all of these shares in March 2015 in respect of the IPO option vesting.
All shares issued by the Company were fully paid.
An additional 196,873 shares were issued at nominal value to complete the satisfaction of the IPO options crystallising in March 2015.
Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
At the year end, 449,172 shares 2014: 225,151 shares, costing 2,241,000 2014: 1,254,000, were held in relation to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
110 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 27.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes for executive directors and other employees.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was 3,372,000 in the year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 12,860,000, comprising 3,226,000 of equity-settled share-based payments, and 146,000 in respect of cash-settled share-based payments for the dividend accrual associated with those options.
Employers NI is being accrued, where applicable, at the rate of 13.8% which management expects to be the prevailing rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date.
The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding: Outstanding at 31 December 2015 2014 Number Number Charge of options Charge of options 000 thousands 000 thousands IPO plan 3,288 1,221 10,560 7,185 Long term incentive plan 510 2,033 2,097 1,550 Deferred share bonus plan 78 59 Share incentive plan 516 449 203 225 3,372 3,762 12,860 8,960 A summary of the main features of each scheme is given below.
The schemes have been split into two categories: executive schemes andother schemes.
For further details on executive schemes, see the remuneration report on pages 54 to 66.
Executive schemes IPO plan At the time of the flotation in March 2013, the Company granted nil-cost share options to executive directors and designated senior management as one-off awards in recognition of the loss of rights under a management incentive package that terminated prior to, and as a result of, the flotation.
50% of the IPO options granted to the executive directors became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option: the remaining 50% of the IPO options become exercisable on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option.
IPO options granted to other participants became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option.
The number of options that vested in March 2015 was subject to the performance criterion based on EBITDA for 2014 as well as continued service and the vesting level achieved was 83%.
The same criterion applies to the options that will vest in March 2016.
Long term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP is open to executive directors and designated senior management, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria and vest over a three-year period.
Deferred share bonus plan DSBP The Group operates a DSBP for executive directors and other senior employees whose bonus awards are settled partly in cash and partly in nil-cost share options at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The number of options that will vest is subject to market performance criteria over a three-year period and continued service.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 111 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued Other schemes Share incentive plan SIP An HMRC approved share incentive plan was introduced in October 2013.
Under the SIP, eligible employees are invited to make regular monthly contributions into a scheme operated by Capita.
Ordinary shares in the Company are purchased at the current market price and anaward of one matching share is made for every two shares acquired by an employee, subject to a vesting period of three years from thedate of each monthly grant.
The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group is shown below: 2015 2014 Executive schemes Other schemes Executive schemes Other schemes IPO LTIP DSBP S I P IPO LTIP DSBP S I P Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number of options of options of options of options of options of options of options of options thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands thousands At 1 January 7,185 1,550 225 7,185 758 26 Granted 1,130 59 228 792 199 Exercised 4,579 Lapsed 1,385 647 4 At 31 December 1,221 2,033 59 449 7,185 1,550 225 Executive schemes are granted at Nil consideration and SIP matching shares are granted at Nil consideration.
The IPO options that became exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO were the only scheme exercisable at the year end.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year have the following expiry date and all have Nil exercise prices : Share options thousands Exercise price Grant vest Expiry date pence 2015 2014 IPO plan 18 March 201318 March 2015 2016 18 March 2021 1,221 7,185 LTIP grants 6 September 20136 September 2016 6 September 2023 561 758 21 March 201421 March 2017 21 March 2024 363 546 8 September 20148 September 2017 8 September 2024 246 246 16 March 201516 March 2018 16 March 2025 730 31 March 201531 March 2018 31 March 2025 24 21 September 201521 September 2018 21 September 2025 109 DSBP 22 May 201522 May 2018 22 May 2025 59 SIP Monthly rolling grants and vesting three years later 449 225 3,762 8,960 The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted during the year under the schemes: IPO LTIP LTIP Share plan TSR condition EPS condition DSBP incentive plan Option pricing model Binomial Lattice Monte Carlo Black Scholes Fair value Fair value Stochastic at grant date at grant date Weighted average share price at grant date 350p 494p664p 494p664p 576p 531p Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p 0p Weighted average contractual life 2.2 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yield 1.5% 1.03.04% 1.02.56% 2.6% n a Risk-free interest rate 1.8% 0.50.9% n a n a n a Volatility n a Statistical analysis n a n a n a of three years share price data 112 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 28.
Other reserves The following table provides a breakdown of other reserves shown on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Capital Foreign Available-for-sale Treasury reorganisation exchange financial assets share reserve reserve reserve reserve Total 000 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 January 2014 92,820 56 28,428 226 120,966 Currency translation differences 117 117 Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 11,076 11,076 Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 3,200 3,200 Treasury shares 14,290 14,290 Balance at 1 January 2015 92,820 173 20,552 14,516 98,683 Currency translation differences 255 255 Realisation of capital reorganisation reserve on liquidation of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd 92,820 92,820 Disposal of fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 237 237 Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 7,836 7,836 Utilisation of treasury shares for IPO options 20,035 20,035 Purchase of treasury shares 7,760 7,760 Balance at 31 December 2015 428 28,151 2,241 25,482 The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders equity: Share premium The amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value less any costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares.
Capital reorganisation reserve The capital reorganisation reserve represents the difference between the share capital of the Company and the share capital, share premium and capital redemption reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at the point of the exchange of equity interests on 19 March 2013.
Treasury share reserve The treasury share reserve represents the consideration paid when the Company acquires its own shares and holds them as treasury shares as well as when the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital, until the shares are reissued.
See note 26 for full details of treasury shares held.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve represents the difference arising from the changes to foreign exchange rates upon assets and liabilities ofoverseas subsidiaries.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve The available-for-sale financial assets reserve represents the unrealised gain arising on the revaluation of these assets.
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Group income statement and pension scheme gains and losses, movement in fair value ofavailable-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 113 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29.
Acquisitions during the year During 2015, the Retail business unit acquired 27 operations as part of the targeted acquisition strategy to increase the Groups footprint in certain under-represented geographical areas.
The total consideration in respect of these acquisitions was 38.3 million, the most significant of which were on 10 November 2015, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Sutton Kersh, and on 6 November 2015, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of John Francis for the consideration noted in the table below.
The London business unit acquired five businesses as part of its targeted acquisition strategy to expand in certain under-represented geographical areas for a total consideration of 23.0 million, the most significant of which was on 7 May 2015, when the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of The Greene Corporation Limited and five subsidiary companies for the consideration noted below.
In accordance with the strategy to increase the Groups commercial footprint and non-cyclical revenue streams, the B2B business unit also acquired four businesses for a total consideration of15.0 million, the most significant of which was on 10 March 2015, when the Group acquired the trade and assets of Edward Symmons Group for the consideration noted below.
There are no contractual cash flows that are not expected to be collected.
The goodwill recognised by the Group upon acquisition has no impact on tax deductions.
No other contingent liabilities, not included in the net assets above, have been identified on these acquisitions.
The goodwill of 53.1 million arises from a number of factors including expected synergies, including cost reductions from purchasing and processing efficiencies, and unrecognised assets such as the assembled workforces.
The deferred consideration noted above is payable over a period of up to six years as fixed payments at specified times in line with the purchase agreements.
In addition, contingent consideration arrangements arising on four of the acquisitions made during the year require theGroup to pay in cash a potential undiscounted maximum aggregate amount of 6.9 million.
Each of these contingent consideration arrangements require the vendors to remain in employment and as such have been treated as a post-combination employment expense, excluded from consideration noted above, and are being accrued over the relevant periods of one tothree years specific to each of the agreements.
2.3 million of this contingent consideration is also subject to performance conditions being satisfied.
These are target EBITDA levels which must be achieved in order to realise the full payment, with a reduced payment made if targets are not fully met.
The accrual has been made on the assumption that each target will be fully met and the 2.3 million will be payable over the earn-out period.
Accruals for contingent consideration will be reviewed at each period end as future earn-out assumptions are revisited and any credits to the income statement in respect of downward revisions to estimates will be treated in the same way.
The costs of these acquisitions amounted to 1.1 million 2014: 0.8 million and have been written off to profit and loss.
114 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 30.
Acquisitions during the prior year During the prior year the Group acquired 36 businesses.
The total consideration paid was 48.9 million and goodwill recognised was 38.7million.
The proforma revenue and EBITDA generated by these businesses in 2014 was 31.0 million and 9.5 million respectively.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 2015 2014 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment 000 000 000 000 Within one year 24,432 14,218 21,444 13,621 Later than one year and less than five years 51,723 22,717 46,654 16,706 After five years 47,292 2 24,001 123,447 36,937 92,099 30,327 At 31 December 2015, the Group had sub-leased a number of surplus premises and was entitled to receive rents under non-cancellable leases as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Sub-leases Within one year 528 823 Later than one year and less than five years 769 842 After five years 205 142 1,502 1,807 32.
Client monies At 31 December 2015, client monies held by subsidiaries in approved bank and building society accounts amounted to 257,454,000 2014:315,389,000.
Neither the cash asset nor any corresponding obligation has been recognised by the Group.
Financial instruments Financial instruments by category 31 December 2015 Loans and Available receivables for sale Total Assets as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Available-for-sale financial assets 57,760 57,760 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 102,415 102,415 Cash and cash equivalents 24,336 24,336 126,751 57,760 184,511 31 December 2015 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 199,128 199,128 Finance lease liabilities 10,120 10,120 Put options 2,700 2,700 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 96,627 96,627 2,700 305,875 308,575 Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 115 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Financial instruments continued Financial instruments by category continued 31 December 2014 Loans and Available receivables for sale Total Assets as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Available-for-sale financial assets 33,290 33,290 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 80,824 80,824 Cash and cash equivalents 28,583 28,583 109,407 33,290 142,697 31 December 2014 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 119,387 119,387 Finance lease liabilities 12,323 12,323 Put options 2,560 2,560 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 83,127 83,127 2,560 214,837 217,397 34.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group is exposed through its operations to one or more of the following financial risks: cash flow and fair value interest rate risk: liquidity risk: counterparty credit risk: and price risk.
The policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the chief financial officer.
Certain risks are managed centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre.
The policy for each of the above risks is described in more detail below.
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The interest profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Floating rate assets 21,246 16,578 Fixed rate assets 3,090 12,005 Interest-free assets 160,175 114,114 Total financial assets 184,511 142,697 Floating rate liabilities 198,128 118,387 Fixed rate liabilities 10,120 12,323 Interest-free liabilities 100,327 86,687 Total financial liabilities 308,575 217,397 The average rate at which the fixed rate liabilities were fixed in 2015 was 5.53% 2014: 3.59% and the average period for which the liabilities were fixed was 365 days 2014: 365 days.
There is no material difference between the book and the fair values of the financial assets and liabilities.
The interest payable on the revolving credit facility is at variable rates.
116 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 34.
Financial risk management continued Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk continued The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups liabilities secured on a floating basis which are managed centrally.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the portion of liabilities exposed to the floating rates.
2015 2014 000 000 Increase in basis points 100 100 Effect on profit before tax 000 2,000 1,200 Decrease in basis points 50 50 Effect on profit before tax 000 1,000 600 Liquidity risk The liquidity risk of each Group entity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function which monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations and acquisition strategy.
Acquisitions are carefully selected with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods as applied as part of the investment appraisal process.
The Group is also cash generative as demonstrated by the cash from operations.
The requirement to pay creditors is managed through future cash generation and, if required, revolving credit facility.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by daily cash reporting.
This reporting considers maturity of both its financial investments and financial assets e. g. trade receivables and other financial assets and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility for potential acquisitions.
All surplus cash held by the operating entities is transferred to Group treasury and managed centrally to maximise the returns on deposits through economies of scale.
The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Groups forecast cash requirements.
The Group maintains an overdraft facility with a major banking corporation to manage any unexpected short term cash shortfalls.
The Group has a 250 million revolving credit facility which incurs interest payments on defined one, three or six month periods.
The Groups discounted financial liabilities at the year end were as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Trade payables 13,261 13,875 Other financial liabilities 2,700 2,560 Deferred consideration 7,987 5,103 Borrowings 199,128 119,387 Finance lease liabilities 10,120 12,323 Accruals and other payables 75,379 64,149 308,575 217,397 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2015 2014 000 000 In less than one year 299,018 125,678 In more than one year but not more than two years 2,599 33,073 In more than two years but less than three years 4,991 57,303 In more than three years but not more than four years 967 1,991 In more than four years but less than five years 980 Over five years 1,000 1,000 308,575 220,025 Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 117 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Financial risk management continued Counterparty credit risk The Groups financial assets at the year end were as follows: 2015 2014 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 24,336 28,583 Trade receivables 80,761 65,330 Amounts due from customers for contract work 2,241 1,251 Other receivables 19,413 14,243 126,751 109,407 As stated in note 18, trade and other receivables are current assets and expected to convert to cash over the next twelve months.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from credit sales.
It is Group policy, implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of major new customers before entering contracts.
The majority of customers use the Groups services as part of a housing transaction and consequently the sales are paid from the proceeds of the house sale.
The majority of the commercial customers and the major lenders, customers of the surveying and asset management businesses, are large financial institutions and as such the credit risk is not expected to be significant.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
The following table presents a breakdown of the gross trade receivables between the three main types of customer: 2015 2014 000 000 Individual customers 28,525 26,888 Major lenders 13,381 9,985 Other commercial customers 41,979 32,622 83,885 69,495 The Group treasury function manages the Groups cash balances and seeks to achieve reasonable rates of interest, but preservation of the capital is the overriding priority.
A list of accepted deposit institutions is maintained and their credit ratings are kept under review.
The following table presents a breakdown of cash at bank and short term deposits the rest of cash and cash equivalents is cash in hand : 2015 2014 000 000 A1 3,390 6,249 A2 5,986 6,225 A3 14,960 837 BA1 15,272 24,336 28,583 Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available-for-sale amounting to 57,760,000 2014: 33,290,000.
If the price used in the 2015 year-end valuation had decreased by 5% the carrying value ofthe investment and the unrealised gain recorded within the statement of comprehensive income would have reduced by2.1 million.
118 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 34.
Financial risk management continued Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of debt subject to certain restrictions under the term loan facility, adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group defines capital as the total of equity shareholders funds and long term borrowings net of available cash balances: 2015 2014 000 000 Borrowings note 21 209,248 131,710 Cash and cash equivalents note 19 24,336 28,583 Net debt 184,912 103,127 Shareholders equity 544,476 531,378 Total capital 729,388 634,505 Gearing ratio 25% 16% During the year, the Group has complied with any capital restrictions and covenant requirements in respect of leverage and interest cover ratios associated with the term loan facility.
Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined, in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, as follows: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2015: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 42,856 14,455 449 57,760 Liabilities Put options 2,700 2,700 The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2014: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 33,165 125 33,290 Investment property 13,235 13,235 Liabilities Put options 2,560 2,560 There was a transfer of investment property into available-for-sale financial assets during the year arising from the loss of control of the investment property fund as planned see note 16.
The fair value of the investment property fund at 31 December was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at that date by CBRE Limited, independent valuers not connected with the Group.
Level 1 financial assets comprise quotedequity instruments in Zoopla Property Group plc Zoopla shares.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 119 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Financial risk management continued Fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 and valuation processes The following changes were made in Level 3 instruments for the years under review: 2015 2014 Available-for-sale Available-for-sale financial assets Liabilities financial assets Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Opening balance at 1 January 125 2,560 42,877 4,955 Acquisitions 324 5,021 780 Disposals 17,786 Transfers from Level 3 to Level 1 38,990 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss 140 22 1,615 Gains and losses recognised in total comprehensive income 9,025 Closing balance at 31 December 449 2,700 125 2,560 As noted in note 20, the fair value of put options is undertaken using a discounted cash flow based on managements expectation of performance ofthe underlying entities, consistent with operating plans approved.
This method continues to be based on unobservable market data, and therefore there have been no changes in valuation techniques adopted in the year and no changes in fair value hierarchies in respect of these liabilities.
The Groups finance department performs the valuations of financial instruments measured at fair value required for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 fair values.
This team reports directly to the CFO and Audit Committee.
The fair value of all other financial assets and liabilities approximates to their carrying value.
Related party transactions Key management compensation is given in note 6 b.
Other related party transactions are as follows: Trading transactions Transaction amount Balance owing owed 2015 2014 2015 2014 Related party relationship Transaction type 000 000 000 000 Joint venture Purchases by Group 2,567 2,539 192 193 Joint venture Rebate received receivable 2,792 394 1,441 23 Joint venture Dividend received 507 Oaktree Capital Management Directors fee paid 40 40 10 The joint venture rebate for 2015 reflects the rebate against both 2014 and 2015 purchases.
The rebate accrued at 31 December 2014 reflected agreed rebate positions in respect of 2014 purchases, with a further retrospective rebate in respect of 2014 purchases being agreed and settled during 2015.
At 31 December 2015 the value accrued is in respect of 2015 purchases, following agreement with the joint venture prior to the year end.
The Company has not made anyprovision for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party debtors nor has any guarantee been given during 2015 regarding related party transactions.
Events after the reporting period On 15 February 2016, Countrywide plc sold 8,659,302 ordinary shares in Zoopla Property Group plc Zoopla, representing 2.1% of Zooplas ordinary share capital, for a price of 220 pence per share.
Following the disposal, the Group continues to hold 9,234,473 Zoopla ordinary shares, representing 2.2% of Zooplas ordinary shares.
During the first few weeks of the year the Group has acquired two businesses and made a strategic investment amounting to 4.3 million.
Atthe time of preparing these financial statements, management is in the process of assessing the impact of these acquisitions on the Group.
The Group debt facility, to which the Company is a party, has also been restructured in February 2016, resulting in an increase in the revolving credit facility from 250 million to 340 million and a 60 million accordion facility.
For further details please refer to the Group financial review within the strategic report of the consolidated financial statements.
