ACCOUNTING POLICIES Year ended 31 March 2015 respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, Basis of preparation ination assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life The consolidated and Company financial statements have been expectancy, amongst others.
Changes in these assumptions can prepared on a historical cost basis.
They are presented in sterling have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million million except obligation.
See Note 20. where otherwise indicated.
iii The Group accrues for agreed promotional funding.
Accruals for The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have promotional funding are calculated based on an estimated been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the redemption rate of the promotion.
The redemption rate used is European Union EU.
The separate Company financial statements dependent on the promotional mechanic and considers known have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU historical data on the performance of that mechanic.
Management and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies considers this to be an area of judgment which is dependent on the Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption customer mix and promotion mechanic.
provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
iv The sale of St Hubert will result in tax payable in France both on the chargeable gain on disposal and on dividend payments made to Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and the UK parent between 31 March 2012 and the date of disposal in Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, August 2012.
An estimate has been made of the likely tax costs published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the resulting from these transactions however the final assessment has Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have yet to be agreed with the French tax authorities, which may result in adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
a change to the level of tax provisioning.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
See the Going Concern Areas of judgment Statement on page 63 of the Directors Report.
The key areas where judgment has been applied are i classication of the Dairies operation ii the timing and nature of exceptional costs Areas of estimation and iii the judgment that for IFRS 8 purposes only one segment The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk should be reported on.
of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are i the measurement of i On 6 November 2014, the Group announced the sale of its Dairies the impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and operations to Mller, subject to approval of the relevant competition equipment ii the measurement of dened benefit pension scheme authorities.
The Dairies operation has not been classied as held for assets and obligations iii the calculation of promotional discount sale at the balance sheet date because, due to it being conditional accruals and iv the estimation of tax costs in France in relation to upon CMA approval, it was not deemed to meet the highly the sale of St Hubert.
probable criteria under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the ii Items of a material, one-off nature, which result from a cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The restructuring of the business or some other event or circumstance assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement as goodwill.
This requires estimation of future cash ows and the exceptional.
Management consider this to be an area of judgment selection of a suitable discount rate.
See Note 11. due to the assumptions made around the timing and nature of exceptional costs.
The Group tests whether intangible assets, property, plant and equipment are impaired where there are indications that there is a iii Following the restructure of the Group to a single operating unit in risk of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of 2013, management has judged that the Group comprises one the cash-generating units in which these assets reside.
The segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
However, certain assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of product group information is provided voluntarily to assist the user of assets.
This requires estimation of future cash ows and the the accounts.
selection of a suitable discount rate.
Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and In the year ended 31 March 2015, the Group tested the intangible sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the financial assets, property, plant and equipment of the Dairies cashstatements.
generating unit for impairment due to indicators of impairment being present.
In assessing for impairment, consideration was taken of the Changes in accounting policies future cash ows on an ongoing basis and also the impact of the The following accounting standards and interpretations became potential disposal of the Dairies operations to create a risk weighted effective for the current reporting period: value in use calculation of the cash-generating unit.
Three key assumptions in performing the test included the projected value and International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs timing of cash ows from property sales, the allocation of corporate IAS 16 Improvement to IAS 16: Property, Plant and Equipment costs and the projected profit growth.
The result of the test was that effective 1 July 2014 no impairment was required: however the headroom was low and IAS 38 Improvement to IAS 38: Intangible Assets effective 1 July therefore sensitive to the above assumptions.
2014 IAS 24 Improvement to IAS 24: Related Party Disclosure effective ii The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit 1 July 2014 obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational IFRS 13 Improvement to IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement requirement of IAS 19 Retirement benefit Obligations.
The effective 1 July 2014 calculations include a number of judgements and estimations in Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 77 The numbers ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are IFRIC translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of IFRIC 21 Levies effective 13 June 2014 foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of The application of these standards has had no material impact on exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net ended 31 March 2015. investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions statements : are met.
Exchange differences relating to foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers foreign entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments at which time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups Property, plant and equipment financial statements in the period of initial application.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the Consolidation purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is year using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date Freehold buildings: 25 years on which control is transferred to the Group.
The separable net Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, the period assets, both tangible and intangible, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the of the lease basis of the fair value as at the effective date of control, if appropriate.
Ofce equipment: 4 to 6 years Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial Vehicles: 4 to 10 years year are included in the financial statements up to the effective date of disposal.
Where a business component representing a separate The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for major line of business is disposed of, or classied as held for sale, it impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that is classied as a discontinued operation.
The post-tax profit or loss the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on the exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down face of the income statement, separate from the other results of the to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and Group.
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are Interest in associates discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the reects current market assessments of the time value of money and equity method of accounting.
Associates are entities over which the the risks specic to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate Group exerts significant inuence.
The Company and its associates largely independent cash ows, the recoverable amount is use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in associates are determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in statement.
value and any distributions received.
The consolidated income statement reects the share of the post-tax results of associates.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates disposal or when no future economic benets are expected to arise other comprehensive income, the Group recognises its share of from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on such changes and discloses this, where applicable in other derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income comprehensive income.
statement in the year that it is derecognised.
Foreign currency translation Borrowing costs The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction and its subsidiaries is Sterling.
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional cost of the respective assets.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on period they occur.
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Investments principally the Frylight brand which was considered to have a useful The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Business Combinations and Goodwill Intangible assets generated internally comprise software The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the development expenditure.
Software development is carried at cost consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The years on a straight line basis.
Internally generated intangible assets choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually or at the proportionate share of acquirees identiable net assets will either individually or at the cash-generating unit level or more be determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the costs incurred are expensed in the income statement.
carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of Research and development the acquisition see above less net identiable amounts of the assets Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future combination.
recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as required by IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment Recoverable amount of non-current assets annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of its impairment was identied.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value subsequently amortised.
less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inows As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to assets.
benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to Inventories which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit Trade and other receivables retained.
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full goodwill, are Dairies fully impaired, Spreads, MH Foods and amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when Cheese.
These represent the lowest level at which goodwill is identied.
Cash and cash equivalents Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the For the purposes of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and business sold.
cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as dened above, net of bank overdrafts.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are Interest bearing loans capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After economic benets ow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, the initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either nite any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have nite and losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 15 years on a straight line when the liabilities are derecognised.
Acquired intangible assets comprise acquired brands, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 79 The numbers ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Net debt pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is The Group and Company define net debt as interest bearing loans taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other and borrowings and finance leases less cash and cash equivalents.
than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the The calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are financial instruments with the exception of cross currency swaps to required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like x foreign currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken cash ow hedges.
In this case the xed Sterling debt, not the into account in determining the grant date fair value.
underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
It includes any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured classied as held for sale and excludes unamortised upfront facility by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over fees.
the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees became fully entitled to the award.
At each balance sheet Retirement benefit obligations date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a dened representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and benefit scheme and a dened contribution scheme.
managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since Dened benefit scheme the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income The net asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
of the dened benefit pension scheme is the fair value of scheme assets less the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past service non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, future contributions to the scheme.
Where the Group is considered provided that all other performance or service conditions are to have a contractual obligation to fund the scheme above the satisfied.
accounting value of the liabilities, an onerous obligation is recognised as an unrecoverable notional surplus.
The dened Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is using the projected unit credit method.
not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and award is expensed immediately.
changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full to the statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the The Company has closed its dened benefit scheme and therefore Companys balance sheet.
no current service costs are required to be charged to income statement.
Past service costs are recognised in the income Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP statement at the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises related Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share restructuring costs.
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such Scheme administration costs that are not directly related to shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised in investment activities are charged to the income statement.
Administration costs that are directly related to investment are recognised as part of the re-measurement exercise through the The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to apply Statement of Comprehensive Income.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
The net interest charge is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net dened benefit liability or asset.
Leased assets Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group Dened contribution scheme substantially all the risks and benets incidental to ownership of the These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation to leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value the Group.
Members of these schemes will contribute a percentage of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum of their salary into the scheme and the Company will pay an lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is additional amount into the scheme.
The size of an individuals included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of pension on retirement is based on the performance of the asset lease rentals is charged to the income statement in the year.
Leases portfolio and is not linked to salary.
Company contributions to the where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benets of scheme are charged to the income statement in the same period as ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Operating services are rendered by the relevant employee.
lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Share-based payments Equity-settled performance payments The Group and Company have issued equity instruments for which they receive services from employees in consideration for these equity instruments.
Equity-settled share-based payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date using an appropriate 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Revenue Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, sales within the Group.
the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals and overriding t where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible discounts.
The Group accrues against agreed promotional funding temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset and agreed customer terms.
The redemption rate used is dependent or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, on the promotional mechanic and considers known historical data at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit on the performance of that mechanic and is adjusted for actual nor taxable profit or loss: and performance.
The overriding discounts are calculated as a t in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with proportion of the level of customer sales in the period.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the payment is established.
foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Other income Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed depots.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no Exceptional items longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow Certain items are recorded separately in the income statement as all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, which result income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that from a restructuring of the business or some other event or are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the circumstance, are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been understanding of the underlying operational performance of the enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a result of dairies depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal items.
enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation Government and other grants authority and that authority permits the Group to make a single net Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where payment.
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods it relates to items that are charged or credited to other necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that comprehensive income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is directly to equity.
Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the statement.
relevant asset in equal annual installments.
Financial assets Income tax The Group and Company classies financial assets that are within Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount the scope of IAS 39 as: expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively t financial assets at fair value through income statement: enacted at the balance sheet date.
t loans and receivables: t held-to-maturity investments: or Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the t available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except The Group and Company determines the classication of financial as indicated below.
assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable are measured at fair value.
The Group and Company currently hold temporary differences except: only loans and receivables.
t where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial Derivative instruments recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and nor taxable profit or loss: and foreign currency uctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments t in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint fair value at each balance sheet date.
ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 81 The numbers ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Cash ow hedges For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial In relation to cash ow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by rethat is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of recognised in the income statement.
When the hedged rm commitment in relation to foreign exchange exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement for the year.
Fair value measurement The Group measures financial instruments at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: t In the principal market for the asset or liability, or t In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic benets by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: t Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities t Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable t Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 82 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
