GLOSSARY AND REFERENCES Concessions Gross margin Own brands Brands which are sold through our Gross transaction value less the cost of Debenhams exclusive brands, storeswhere the stock belongs to goods sold, as a percentage of gross comprising core brands and Designers athirdparty concessionaire.
arefoundchiefly inclothing egWallis, Oasis, Warehouse, Gross transaction value GTV Reported profit before tax and accessories eg Tripp luggage and Sales excluding VAT on a gross earnings per share food eg Costa Coffee.
basisbefore adjusting for concessions, Profit before tax and earnings per share consignments and staff discounts.
All calculated after the impact of a Core brands references to sales in this report refer non-recurring 4.5 million write-off of Brands designed and produced to GTV.
All references to revenue refer unamortised issue costs associated exclusivelyby Debenhams.
with the refinancing of borrowing include brands such as The Collection, facilities during 2014.
Mantaray, MaineNew England and International brands RedHerring.
Theyare found in all Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, Retail method of inventory valuation product categories.
Clarinsand Este Lauder for which An industry specific accounting Debenhams owns the stock.
method used to derive a weighted CRM eCRM average productcost.
Product cost and Customer relationship management International segment retail valuesare aggregated at programmes.
Comprises sales to international department levelto determine an franchise partners, sales from our average margin perdepartment.
These Designers at Debenhams stores in Denmark and the Republic of margins are then applied to the retail Exclusive diffusion ranges designed Ireland and online sales to addresses value of inventory ineach department forDebenhams by leading international outside of the UK.
to derive the cost ofinventory.
Like-for-like sales Terminal stock Direct sourcing Sales from stores which have been open The stock, as at the balance sheet date, Sourcing from suppliers who own all forat least one year plus online sales.
which is classified as previous season or orpartof the supply chain processes.
It is expressed as a percentage Market share of total stock measured at retail value.
Earnings per share EPS The percentage of the market or The profit for the year attributable to marketsegment that is being serviced UK segment shareholders, divided by the weighted byDebenhams.
For instance, if 100 Comprises sales from our UK stores average number of shares in issue.
T-shirtswere sold a year in the UK and andonline sales to UK addresses.
Debenhams sold ten of them, it would EBITDA have10% marketshare.
Underlying profit before tax Earnings before interest, taxation, andearnings per share depreciation and amortisation.
Multi-channel Profit before tax and earnings per Multi-channel sales comprise those sharecalculated before the impact Footfall fromonline, mobile, apps and instore ofexceptional or non-recurring items.
The number of people who visit our ordering as well as those which include In 2014 there was anon-recurring 4.5 stores.
more than one channel in a single million write-off of unamortised issue shopping journey such as click & costs associated with the refinancing Free cash flow collect.
We use online sales as a ofborrowing facilities during 2014.
Cash generated from operations measure of the growth ofthe multibefore exceptional items less net cash channel business as itisthe largest of used in investing activities.
Full price sell-through Own bought brands The number of units sold in store or Brands for which Debenhams owns the online at the original selling price, as a stock.
They include core brands, percentage of total units sold.
Designers at Debenhams and international brands.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 152 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Registered office and head office Cautionary statement 10 Brock Street This report is intended to focus on Regents Place matters which are relevant to the London NW1 3FG interests of shareholders of the Registered in England and Wales Company.
The purpose of this report is Company number: 5448421 to assist shareholders in assessing the strategies adopted and performance Financial advisors delivered by the Company and the Lazard potential for those strategies to 50 Stratton Street succeed.
It should not be relied on by London W1J 8LL any other party for any other purpose.
Stockbrokers Forward-looking statements are made Citigroup Global Markets Limited ingood faith, based on a number of Citigroup Centre assumptions concerning future events Canada Square andinformation available to directors London E14 5LB at the time of their approval of this report.
These forward-looking Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited statements should be treated with 150 Cheapside caution due to the inherent London EC2V 6ET uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
The user Solicitors of this report should not rely unduly on Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer these forward-looking statements, 65 Fleet Street which are not a guarantee of London EC4Y 1HS performance and which are subject to anumber of uncertainties and other Independent auditors facts, many of which are outside the  LLP Companys control and could cause Chartered Accountants and actual events to differ materially from StatutoryAuditors those in these statements.
No 1 Embankment Place guarantee can be given of future London WC2N 6RH results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0371 384 2766 www.
co. uk Designed and produced by Luminous www.
co. uk Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 153 DEBENHAMS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 10 BROCK STREET REGENTS PLACE LONDON NW1 3FG WWW.
