Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Electronic Communications Shareholders now have the opportunity to receive shareholder Interim Management Statement 23 October 2015 communications electronically, e. g. Annual Reports, Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting 23 October 2015 Annual General Meeting and Proxy Forms.
You can elect to receive Final Dividend Ex-Dividend Date 29 October 2015 email notifications of shareholder communications by registering at Final Dividend Record Date 30 October 2015 www.
co. uk, where you can also set up a bank mandate Final Dividend Payment Date 20 November 2015 to receive dividends directly to your bank account and to submit proxy votes for shareholder meetings.
Receiving the Companys Annual General Meeting communications electronically allows the Company to communicate The 2015 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective at 1.00pm on 23 October 2015 at the offices of the Company at and timely manner.
24 Cheshire Avenue, Cheshire Business Park, Lostock Gralam, Northwich CW9 7UA.
The notice of meeting the Notice, which Registrar includes special business to be transacted at the Annual General Dechras Registrar is Equiniti Limited.
Meeting together with an explanation of the resolutions to be Equiniti should be contacted for any matters relating to your considered at the meeting, is made available on the Company shareholding, including: website or mailed to shareholders, if they have elected to receive the Notice in paper format.
Notification of change in name and address Share History Enquiries about dividend payments Dechra floated on the London Stock Exchange in September 2000 Submission of proxy form for voting at the Annual General at 1.20 per share, with a market capitalisation of 60.0 million.
Meeting In relation to the acquisition of VetXX Holdings A S, on 15 January Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings 2008, Dechra undertook a placing and open offer on the basis of 11 because they have multiple accounts should contact Equiniti to have Open Offer shares for every 50 existing shares held on their accounts amalgamated.
10 December 2007 at an issue price of 303 pence.
Equiniti offers a facility whereby shareholders are able to access their shareholdings in Dechra via their website www.
On 5 April 2012, a Rights Issue was announced on the basis of three new ordinary shares for every existing ten shares held on Alternatively, Equiniti can be contacted at: 23 April 2012 at a subscription price of 3.00 per share.
The Rights Equiniti Limited Issue resulted in 20,040,653 shares being issued with dealings Aspect House commencing on 16 May 2012.
Spencer Road Company Website Lancing The Dechra website www.
com is the best source of useful West Sussex BN99 6DA and up-to-date information about Dechra and its activities, including Registrars Shareholder Helpline for Dechra: 0871 384 2030 or the latest news, financial and product information to help improve 44 0 121 415 7047, if calling from outside of the UK.
Additionally, the terms of reference of all our Committees, Articles of Association, our Values and a Please have your Shareholder Reference Number to hand whenever number of our internal policies are published on the website.
you contact the Registrar: this can be found on your share certificate or a recent dividend tax voucher.
Share Dealing Service Equiniti Financial Services Limited offer a Share Dealing Service to buy or sell shares.
Further information can be obtained from www.
co. uk dealing or by telephoning 0845 603 7037.
Telephone Internet Postal share share share dealing dealing dealing Fee on value of transaction up to 50,000 1.5% 1.5% 1.75% Balance over 50,000 0.2% 0.2% 0.5% Minimum charge 50.00 45.00 50.00 Visit us at our website Stamp duty charge www.
com purchases only 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% Equiniti Financial Services Limited and its agents are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Please note that the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the original amount you Calls to the 0871 number are charged at 10 pence per minute excluding VAT plus telephone company access charges.
Lines are open from 8.30am originally invested.
If you are in any doubt, you should contact an to 5.30pm London time Monday to Friday except UK public holidays.
164 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Company Information Warning to Shareholders If you are approached about a share scam, you should tell the FCA Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the by contacting their Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 678.
If you have blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or been offered, bought or sold shares, you can use the share fraud non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
Previously reporting form at www.
we were alerted by some of our shareholders to cold calls which If you have already paid money to share fraudsters or suspect fraud, they had received.
The callers purport to represent various entities, you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. including Drexel-Bearns, a US based firm.
The callers stated that they were seeking to gain control of investor shareholdings held Protecting your Identity in the Company and or personal financial information.
We believe Suggestions for safeguarding your shares: these to be boiler room scams.
ensure all your share certificates are kept in a safe place or hold These types of calls are typically from overseas based brokers your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee: who target UK shareholders and are commonly referred to as keep all correspondence relating to your shares in a safe place or boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely destroy the correspondence by shredding: persuasive.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
notify the Registrar of a change of address in writing or via their website as detailed on page 164 : Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank account to eliminate the risk of a lost dividend cheque: If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research notify the Registrar of bank account detail changes in writing or reports, you should take these steps before handing over any via their website: and money: if you decide to sell or buy shares, use only brokers registered in check the FCA Register at www.
uk firms systemsyour own country or the UK.
reporting register to ensure they are authorised: confirm that the firm is genuine by asking them for their firm reference number and contact details.
Always use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm.
You should only access the Register from the FCA website at www.
uk: call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6786 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date: make additional checks to confirm that you are dealing with the firm direct, for example, checking the details on the firms website with directory enquiries or Companies House: search the FCA unauthorised firms list: and remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
