Our Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Directors Responsibility Statement Annual Report and the Financial Statements We confirm to the best of our knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the with applicable law and regulations.
EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that included in the consolidation taken as a whole: law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 2.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable and performance of the business and the position of the law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial risks and uncertainties that they face: and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair 3.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Ian Page prudent: Chief Executive Officer for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been 7 September 2015 prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Anne-Francoise Nesmes for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether Chief Financial Officer applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, 7 September 2015 subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Stock Code: DPH 99 slugline To learn more about reported results read the Financial Review on page 43.
19.5m View further content on our website: www.
com Our pro t after tax for continuing operations was 19.5 million compared to 19.4 million in 2014 slugline Our Financials 102 Independent Auditors Report 105 Consolidated Income Statement 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 109 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 150 Company Balance Sheet 151 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 152 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 159 Financial History slugline
