Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES This section describes the basis of preparation of the ACCOUNTING consolidated financial statements and the groups accounting INFORMATION policies that are applicable to the financial statements as AND POLICIES a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
This section also explains new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
ACCOUNTING INFORMATION AND POLICIES a Basis of preparation d Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the for use in the European Union EU and as issued by the International primary economic environment in which each entity operates Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the historical cost convention, unless stated otherwise in the relevant parent company.
The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities accounting policy.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure on the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings b Going concern The group has considerable financial resources available.
and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to At 30 June 2015 the group has cash and cash equivalents of the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on 472 million and undrawn bank facilities of 2,229 million, with such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income borrowings and bank overdrafts due within one year of 1,921 million.
The group owns a diverse portfolio of beverage alcohol assets.
statement when the foreign operation is sold.
Other exchange With a globally diverse customer and supplier base the directors differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in believe that the group is well positioned to manage its business foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the of financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2015, foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
2015 2014 2013 US dollar c Consolidation i Income statement and cash flows 1.57 1.63 1.57 The consolidated financial statements include the results of the ii Assets and liabilities 1.57 1.71 1.52 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is Euro an entity controlled by Diageo plc.
Control is the power to direct i Income statement and cash flows 1.31 1.20 1.21 the relevant activities of the subsidiary that significantly affect the ii Assets and liabilities 1.41 1.25 1.17 subsidiarys return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities.
Where the group has the ability to exercise joint control i Weighted average rates ii Year end rates over an entity but has rights to specified assets and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is consolidated on the basis of the The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
For further information see note 15.
