Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY Dividends paid and received ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the year in which it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend THE COMPANY in the year in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Dividends received are included in the financial Basis of preparation statements in the year in which they are receivable.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluations Share-based payments employee benefits to fair value of certain financial instruments, in accordance with the The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company models and is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account and disclosing period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in retained employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has taken advantage earnings in equity.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption contained in recognised in operating profit immediately.
Shares of Diageo plc held FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed transactions with wholly by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of owned subsidiary undertakings and the exemption in FRS 29 and has various employee share plans around the group are deducted from not separately disclosed information about financial instruments.
equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale The group has revised the disclosure of certain comparative of the Diageo plc shares held by the company is included as amounts in the company balance sheet.
In the year ended a movement in equity.
Where the company grants options over its 30 June 2014 certain derivatives with subsidiary undertakings with own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it recharges the a fair value of 114 million were presented net in the balance sheet cost to the relevant group company.
and are now disclosed gross in financial assets and liabilities.
This revised presentation is consistent with the settlement arrangement Pensions and other post employment benefits for these derivatives.
The revision had no impact on net assets nor The Diageo group operates a number of defined benefit pension net profit.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the Future changes to accounting policies company accounts for them as defined contribution plans.
The Financial Reporting Council recently issued FRS 100 Application Contributions payable in respect of defined contribution plans in of Financial Reporting Requirements, FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure respect of current and former employees are charged to operating Framework and FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable profit as incurred.
The company operates a number of other post in the UK and Republic of Ireland which will be first effective for the employment benefit plans which are unfunded.
The liability in respect company for the year ending 30 June 2016.
FRS 100 sets out the of these plans is recognised on the balance sheet representing the overall financial reporting framework whereas FRS 101 applies to the present value of the obligations under the plans, net of related company financial statements allowing them to apply the same deferred tax.
accounting policies as the IFRS group accounts but with less disclosure.
FRS 102 will replace the current UK GAAP standards with Taxation an IFRS based new standard and include a set of disclosure Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an exemptions for qualifying entities formerly preparing UK GAAP estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment financial standards.
The company will adopt FRS 101, for its financial of the timing differences which arise as a consequence of different statements, for the year ending 30 June 2016.
Based on a preliminary accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made assessment the company believes the change will have no significant for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in impact on its results or financial position.
the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
The following paragraphs describe the significant accounting The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount policies under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied for and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the year ended 30 June 2015. the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using the basis of taxation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Investments company does not discount these balances.
Tax benefits are not Investments in subsidiaries are stated at their historical cost i. e. the recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
fair value of the consideration given by the company less, where Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material appropriate, impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full value.
The carrying amounts of the companys investments are recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is an through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
Losses are recognised in profit or loss account and reflected in an allowance against the carrying value.
Financial instruments When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit at fair value calculated using discounted cash flow techniques based or loss account.
on market data applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are reported in the income statement.
