Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION This section includes additional financial information that OTHER FINANCIAL are either required by the relevant accounting standards INFORMATION or management considers these to be material information for shareholders.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS the filing of a memo by Dr Mallya with the tribunal that he had no objection to it issuing the order in respect of the UBL shares.
Diageo Accounting policies believes that the existence of any prior rights or dispute in relation to Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or the UBL shares would be in breach of representations and warranties other disputes against the group where it is considered to be given to Standard Chartered at the time the security was granted and probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made further believes that Dr Mallyas filing of the memo with the tribunal of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may and his failure to object to the order for status quo are breaches of his be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the obligations to Standard Chartered.
estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no Under the terms of the guarantee, there are arrangements to pass provision created.
on to DHN the benefit of the security package if it makes a payment under the guarantee of all amounts owed to Standard Chartered.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements However, DHNs ability to assume or enforce security over elements A judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a claim of the security package is subject to regulatory consent.
It is not at will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible this stage possible to determine whether such consent would be range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in this forthcoming.
evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the liability In addition, DHN has the benefit of counter-indemnities from originally estimated.
Watson and Dr Mallya in respect of its liabilities under the guarantee.
In the event that DHN makes any payment under the guarantee, a Guarantees and related matters DHN would intend to pursue claims under these indemnities to seek As of 30 June 2015, the group has no material guarantees or to recover any outstanding amounts.
indemnities in respect of liabilities of third parties with the exception In light of the litigation risk associated with the UBL shares and of the following: the potential loss of realisable value of the F1 security during Diageo Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN has issued a conditional enforcement, Diageo believes the outstanding amounts may not be backstop guarantee to Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered fully recoverable through the security enforcement process and or pursuant to a guarantee commitment agreement the guarantee otherwise paid under the counter-indemnities.
The guarantee is in respect of the liabilities of Watson unable to meaningfully quantify the potential outcome from the Limited Watson, a company affiliated with Dr Vijay Mallya, under recovery of the security package and or the counter-indemnities and a $135 million 81 million facility from Standard Chartered.
The therefore any possible loss.
guarantee agreement was entered into as part of the arrangements Dr Mallya has indicated, both in response to DHN notifying its put in place and announced at closing of the USL transaction on intention to bring counter-indemnity claims in respect of any liability 4 July 2013.
DHNs provision of the guarantee agreement enabled incurred under DHNs guarantee of the Watson facility and as a standthe refinancing of certain existing borrowings of Watson to a third alone matter, that he believes he has certain claims against Diageo party bank and facilitated the release by that bank of rights over arising out of the failure to conclude a joint venture with him in certain USL shares that were to be acquired by Diageo as part of respect of certain emerging markets in Africa and Asia excluding the USL transaction.
The facility matured and entered into default India and to provide significant financial benefits to him.
The possibility of an emerging markets joint venture was Standard Chartered is required to take certain pre-agreed steps previously disclosed by Diageo in the announcement of its initial to recover from Watson prior to calling on the DHN guarantee.
The USL transaction on 9 November 2012, alongside the details of a underlying security package held by Standard Chartered includes non-binding memorandum of understanding for the establishment shares in United Breweries Limited UBL and Watsons interest in of a joint venture to own United National Breweries traditional the joint venture that owns the Force India Formula One F1 team.
sorghum beer business in South Africa UNB joint venture.
That In June 2015, a consortium of banks led by State Bank of India SBI announcement noted that it was not certain whether the emerging obtained an order from the Debt Recovery Tribunal DRT in markets joint venture would be established or, if so, on what basis.
Bangalore preventing the sale or any other transfer of such UBL Subsequently, at the time of completion of its initial USL transaction shares as part of the enforcement process pending further orders on 4 July 2013, Diageo announced that, once Diageo and Dr Mallyas from the DRT.
DHN intends to vigorously pursue all options to appeal near-term priority of the integration of USL into the Diageo group or lift the DRT order in order to allow for the sale of shares and was successfully underway, Diageo and Dr Mallya would explore the recovery of outstanding amounts.
This order was passed following opportunity of extending their relationship into other emerging 130 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION e Acquisition of USL shares from UBHL, winding-up petitions markets in Africa and Asia excluding India through a further joint venture relationship on terms and with a scope yet to be determined.
against UBHL and other proceedings in relation to the USL This announcement also stated that it was not certain whether such transaction a joint venture would be established and, if so, on what basis, albeit On 4 July 2013 Diageo completed its acquisition, under a share purchase agreement with United Breweries Holdings Limited UBHL that it was contemplated that it would absorb the UNB joint venture which had since become the subject of definitive agreement as and various other sellers the SPA, of 21,767,749 shares 14.98% in USL announced by Diageo on 28 January 2013 and completion of which for a total consideration of INR 31.3 billion 342 million, including took place on 27 June 2013 following receipt of necessary regulatory 10,141,437 shares 6.98% from UBHL.
Through a series of further transactions, as of 2 July 2014, Diageo has a 54.78% investment in USL and competition clearances.
As announced on 2 April 2015, Diageo agreed to acquire the remaining 50% of the UNB joint venture, and excluding 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
this acquisition completed on 29 May 2015 at which point UNB Prior to the acquisition from UBHL on 4 July 2013, the High Court became a wholly owned Diageo group subsidiary.
of Karnataka the High Court had granted leave to UBHL under sections 536 and 537 of the Indian Companies Act the Leave Order Diageo believes, consistently with its prior disclosures, that it has no outstanding obligations to Dr Mallya as regards the establishment to enable the sale by UBHL to Diageo to take place the UBHL Share of an emerging markets joint venture or the provision of financial Sale notwithstanding the continued existence of five winding-up benefits.
Diageo would contend vigorously any such claim that may petitions the Original Petitions that were pending against UBHL on 9 November 2012, being the date of the SPA.
Additional winding-up be brought by Dr Mallya whether in the context of a counterindemnity claim for DHNs liability under its guarantee of the Watson petitions have been brought against UBHL since 9 November 2012, facility or otherwise.
and the Leave Order did not extend to them.
At the time of the completion of the UBHL Share Sale, the Leave Order remained subject to review on appeal.
However, as stated by Diageo at the b Colombian litigation An action was filed on 8 October 2004 in the United States District time of closing on 4 July 2013, it was considered unlikely that any Court for the Eastern District of New York by the Republic of Colombia appeal process in respect of the Leave Order would definitively and a number of its local government entities against Diageo and conclude on a timely basis and, accordingly, Diageo waived the other spirits companies, alleging several causes of action, including conditionality under the SPA relating to the absence of insolvency violations of the Federal RICO Act.
This claim was dismissed in proceedings in relation to UBHL and acquired the 10,141,437 USL November 2012.
The dismissal was without prejudice and as such, shares from UBHL at that time.
Following closing of the UBHL Share Sale, appeals were plaintiffs are not barred from bringing a similar action in future, although the company currently believes any such future action to be filed by various petitioners in respect of the Leave Order.
Diageo remains committed to continued dialogue with the On 20 December 2013, the division bench of the High Court set Colombian governmental entities to address the underlying issues.
aside the Leave Order the 20 December Order.
Following the 20 December Order, Diageo filed special leave petitions SLPs c Korean customs dispute in the Supreme Court of India against the 20 December Order.
On 5 January 2015, Diageo Korea accepted the Korean court On 10 February 2014, the Supreme Court of India issued an order recommendation to settle litigation against Korea customs regarding admitting the SLPs and ordering that the status quo be maintained with regard to the UBHL Share Sale.
The SLPs were last scheduled to the transfer pricing methodology applicable to spirits imported between 2004 and 2010.
For the fiscal year ended 30 June 2015, be heard by the Supreme Court on 22 July 2015.
The hearing did not, Diageo has charged 146 million before tax in respect of resolving however, take place on that date.
The latest indication from the this dispute as well as other related matters.
Supreme Court website is that the matter is likely to be listed on 26 August 2015.
Total payments made to settle this dispute in 2015 were 74 million.
87 million was paid to the customs authorities prior to In separate proceedings, the various winding-up petitions against 30 June 2014, and at 30 June 2014 was accounted for as a receivable UBHL have been progressing through the High Court since closing from Korean customs.
It is expected that any outstanding items of the UBHL Share Sale.
In separate rulings issued by the High Court on 22 November 2013 and 13 December 2013, the High Court will be settled and the customs dispute concluded within the next 18 months based on historical case timelines.
admitted two of the winding-up petitions against UBHL.
An appeal filed by UBHL against the first ruling issued on 22 November 2013 d Thalidomide litigation was dismissed by a division bench of the High Court on 16 December 2013.
That dismissal is now the subject of a further In June 2014, claims forms alleging product liability and negligence for injuries arising from the consumption of thalidomide were filed in appeal by UBHL before the Supreme Court of India.
On 6 February the High Court in London against Distillers Company Biochemicals 2014, UBHL filed an appeal with a division bench of the High Court Limited, its parent Diageo Scotland Limited formerly Distillers against the second ruling issued on 13 December 2013 and that appeal is still pending.
The last hearing date of that appeal was Company Limited, as well as against Grnenthal GmbH, the developer of the drug not a member of the group.
On 4 December 2014 these 18 June 2015, and the next hearing date is yet to be fixed.
The High claims forms were served by lawyers acting for the claimants.
Court admitted a further six winding-up petitions against UBHL on Since then the proceedings in respect of the 28 individuals that 2 January 2015.
On 22 January 2015 and 27 March 2015, UBHL filed appeals with a division bench of the High Court against the latest have now issued claims in the United Kingdom have been stayed until 31 December 2015. admission order.
Two of these appeals were last heard on Diageo is unable to meaningfully quantify the possible loss or 11 June 2015, and one appeal was last heard on 17 June 2015.
The range of loss to which these lawsuits may give rise.
Distillers Company matters were adjourned following the last hearings and the next hearing dates for these appeals are yet to be fixed.
Biochemicals Limited distributed thalidomide in the United Kingdom for a period in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
Diageo continues to believe that the acquisition price of INR 1440 Diageo has worked voluntarily for many years with various paid to UBHL for the USL shares is fair and reasonable as regards thalidomide organisations and has provided significant UBHL, UBHLs shareholders and UBHLs secured and unsecured financial support.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE GROUP: OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION been diverted from USL and its subsidiaries to companies in the creditors.
However, adverse results for Diageo in the proceedings referred to above could, absent leave or relief in other proceedings, UBHL group in respect of such transactions.
These amounts were ultimately result in Diageo losing title to the 10,141,437 USL shares fully provided for in the fair value balance sheet consolidated by Diageo on 2 July 2014.
Diageo does not expect any further material acquired from UBHL.
Diageo believes it would remain in control of financial impact on USL or Diageos financial results in connection USL and be able to consolidate USL as a subsidiary regardless of the outcome of this litigation.
There can be no certainty as to the with such transactions.
outcome of the existing or any further related legal proceedings The USL board stated in its update of 25 April 2015 that it was not in a position to make any final determinations with regard to the or the timeframe within which they would be concluded.
position of any individuals involved and therefore directed USL to Diageo also has the benefit of certain contractual undertakings and commitments from the relevant sellers in relation to potential report the relevant transactions to the authorities as required under challenges to its unencumbered title to the USL shares acquired on applicable law and to provide the inquiry report to USLs auditors.
The USL board also resolved that USL should take the necessary steps 4 July 2013, including relating to the winding-up petitions described to pursue all rights and claims against, and expeditiously recover its above and or certain losses and costs that may be incurred in the event of third party actions relating to the acquisition of the USL shares.
dues from, the relevant parties to the extent possible.
As announced Separately, Diageo continues to pursue completion of the by USL on 23 July 2015, it is now in the process of initiating steps for recovery against the relevant parties.
acquisition of an additional 3,459,090 USL shares representing 2.38% In light of the above, and without making any determination as to of the share capital of USL under the SPA from the USL Benefit Trust.
Currently certain lenders to USL are refusing to release security fault or culpability, the USL directors noted in the update of 25 April that they hold over those shares notwithstanding that they have 2015 that they had lost confidence in Dr Vijay Mallya continuing in his role as a director and as chairman of USL and therefore the USL board been repaid in full.
USL is taking steps including proceedings before called upon Dr Mallya to resign forthwith as a director and as the High Court to expedite the release of the security.
As previously disclosed, if it is not ultimately possible to complete the acquisition chairman of the board and step down from his positions in USLs in relation to these shares, they would instead continue to be held subsidiaries.
The board of USL also resolved that, in the event Dr Mallya declined to step down, it would recommend to the by the USL Benefit Trust subject to an undertaking that the trustees would only vote the shares at the direction of USL.
shareholders of USL the removal of Dr Mallya as a director and as the chairman of the board.
Dr Mallya has indicated he will not tender his resignation.
f USL internal inquiry and related matters Diageo is the majority shareholder in USL with a 54.78% holding In a notice to the Indian stock exchange dated 4 September 2014, USL announced that its board of directors had directed an inquiry in USL.
As previously announced by Diageo, it has certain into certain matters referred to in USLs financial statements and the contractual obligations to support Dr Mallya continuing as nonexecutive director and chairman of USL subject to certain conditions qualified auditors report for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 and in the absence of certain defaults.
Those matters were agreed the Inquiry.
The transactions noted in the Inquiry occurred prior to Diageo gaining significant influence over USL on 4 July 2013 when on 9 November 2012 as part of a broader shareholders agreement it completed the transaction to purchase shares in USL to take its and came into effect on 4 July 2013 when Diageo completed the purchase of shares to take its aggregate shareholding in USL aggregate shareholding to 25.02%.
USL provided an update on to 25.02%.
25 April 2015 in relation to the Inquiry which covered various matters, including certain doubtful receivables, advances and Subsequent to its announcement of 25 April 2015, USL has deposits.
An additional update was set out in USLs announcement provided its inquiry report and all related materials to Diageo.
As announced by Diageo on 27 April 2015, Diageo has noted the on 23 July 2015 of its unaudited financial results for its first quarter recommendation of the USL board and is considering its position ended 30 June 2015.
As stated by USL in its update, the Inquiry: a revealed that funds under its agreements with Dr Mallya and UBHL in light of the inquiry involved in many of the commercial transactions covered by the report and materials provided to it.
Diageos consideration of that matter is ongoing and Diageo will continue to review closely Inquiry were diverted from USL and or its subsidiaries to certain developments in respect of USL in this context.
companies in the UBHL group, including in particular Kingfisher Airlines Limited: b prima facie revealed that certain accounting USL made provisions in its financial statements for the two years entries appear to have been made and certain transactions entered ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015 in respect of the issues identified by the Inquiry.
The audit report on the financial statements into on behalf of USL appear to have been undertaken in order to of USL for the year ended 31 March 2015 was also qualified in respect show a lower exposure of USL and its subsidiaries to UBHL than that which actually existed at the relevant time: and c also identified of the issues.
certain additional matters where documents identified raised g SEC Inquiry concerns as to the propriety of certain underlying commercial Diageo has received an inquiry from the US Securities and Exchange transactions with counterparties referred to in the notes to USLs audited accounts for the financial year to 31 March 2014.
The inquiry Commission SEC regarding its distribution in the United States.
suggests that the manner in which these various transactions were Diageo is currently responding to the SECs request for information in this matter.
Diageo is unable to assess if the inquiry will evolve into a conducted, prima facie, indicates various improprieties and potential broader information request or an enforcement action or, if this were violations of provisions, inter alia, of the Indian Companies Act 1956 and the listing agreements signed by USL with various stock to transpire, to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of exchanges in India on which its securities are listed.
loss, if any, to which any such action might give rise.
USL has recorded provisions in an aggregate amount of INR 6,712 million approximately 65 million with respect to a above, and in an aggregate amount of INR 2,368 million approximately 23 million with respect to c above.
Diageo believes that these provisions represent the full amount of funds indicated by the Inquiry as having
